ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 385 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the exit of the National Deputies of Ukraine: Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, Sergey Makarovich Pravdenka and Petr Petrovich Toločka from the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc Timoshenko, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ratushnyka, from the MP group "The People's Authority" and from the membership of the Demputate Group "Democratic Initiatives"; Oleg Volodymyrovich Blochina, from the deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its membership in the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine; Vadima Valentinovich Litvina, from the deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its membership in the political party. [[united]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. I am informing you of the formation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fourth call of a permanent parliamentary majority in accordance with the Agreement on the Establishment and Basic Principles of the Permanently Acting Parliamentary Majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Assembly and the Position on the Permanently Acting Parliamentary Majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The agreement on the creation and basic principles of parliamentary majority activity was signed by the following parliamentary factions and groups: "Agrarians of Ukraine", the People's Democratic Party, political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine", "Regions of Ukraine", the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, "Democratic Initiatives", "European Choice", "National Choice", "People's Government". [[united]] The staff of the permanent parliamentary majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the fourth call of 231 Ukrainian national deputies is given to you. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! At today's session, we need to consider the urgent issue -- the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of the illegal arms trade with the Republic of Iraq. Dear colleagues, let me finish, one minute. Then it's out of procedure. Since this issue is not included in the agenda of the day and the Rules set the voting day - four - we need to vote twice: the first time - for the inclusion of this issue in the agenda and the second time - for the decision to be taken. Out of procedure, please, Turkish national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u2	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues, you have now heard that through blackmail and bribery, the so-called majority was formed. I think it's another disgraceful matter of the President and his environment. This is the first time. Second of all, with regard to proposals. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't have to cheat. Today, the President is blocking the signing of the Investigative Commission Act. This is done artificially to violate the Constitution. So the requirement of our faction is not to create any commission until the law on commission investigators is signed, which will allow you to show the real face of Kuchma, to show who trades arms behind the backs of parliament, of the country, to show the face of that authority. Without authorization, such a commission of inquiry will be ineffective. We demand that the law be signed, then we deal with the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u3	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Social Democratic Party. Please. After that, he's the People's Deputy of Goodima, then Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u4	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[electoral district 79, Zaporezki region]] The fraction of the SDPO(s). Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 1998, an interim commission of inquiry was established to study the facts of the illicit arms trade. The commission reported on its work, and on July 17, this year, we updated the composition of the commission and continued its work. Members of the commission were interned, including in the United States Department of State and in the Ukrainian State Expert Review Commission. I'm proposing either that this commission be eliminated, or I'm asking her to study the facts of the ring. [[Head - Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich]] Moreover, we have already sent such questions to the appropriate authorities. This commission is already running, why create a new commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gudima, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u6	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 119, Lviv region]] The faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Movement. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Parliament voted to hear today on the Government's Information Day of the Cabinet of Ministers on the reform of the oil and gas complex. Not just the national MPs, but the whole of Ukraine wants to hear today, but what exactly did the government sign in Chisinau yesterday? I don't think there's any reason for this question to come out in the daytime. If anyone wants to hide the truth once again about what is happening in our country, please put it in order of the day and vote to move the matter to November, to the following year or to the next millennium. That is, we demand that this issue be considered as voted by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u7	People's Deputies, please. After that, he's the national deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u8	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[Election District 12, Viennese Region]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to state that I would like to exclude from the list of newly announced national MPs who have filed applications for membership of the permanent parliamentary majority of the national MP of the faction "Our Ukraine", the Solidarity Group of the solitaryist Vladislav Anatoliyovich. A corresponding statement has been made to Karpov. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, please submit your application for registration by the secretariat. National Deputy Carmazin, please. After him, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u10	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Our Ukraine faction, the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For more than a week, we were deceived into believing that there was a majority that did not exist. In fact, it was an informational reason to capture an information space that had not yet been captured. Now you're all going to make sure that there wasn't any majority, there wasn't, and there's not going to be an anti-government majority, I mean. And that's why we can remove something, particularly from the Government Day, according to the Rules, only by the previous vote. I insist, like Deputy Goodim, that the issue of oil-gas division information, and in fact, the theft of Ukraine by 10 billion dollars, be put to the vote now. That's the first one. And the second. With regard to the project, the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the Verification of the Evidence of the Illicit Arms Trade, you have to put a dot here. Because language is not limited to trade with the Republic of Iraq. And let's not simplify here. Serious things are happening. Americans want to see the technology of making earrings, and you can't let that happen, you can't sell technology, it's a state secret.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u11	Please finish. Turn off the microphone. People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u12	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, yesterday the President of Ukraine gave President Putin a royal gift. At the age of 50, he donated the entire Ukrainian gas transport system. This is more than an extraordinary event for our country. Parliament cannot remain outside until the day following the signing of such an agreement. So I have two suggestions. First. Not to start today Government Day, including the issue of health problems, until all the reporters involved in signing yesterday’s agreement in Chisinau, which, as decided before Parliament, were to report at the position of reforming the gas transport complex. The other one. I'm proposing the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on the sale of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The personnel and authority of this commission should be discussed simultaneously with the commission for the illegal sale of arms to Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Then we need to make suggestions on the composition of the committee and on the tasks of the committee. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. After that, he's the National Deputy of Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u14	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to draw attention to the violation of the Rules today. The issue that has been voted on and included in the agenda on the gas transport system should be considered. I would like to propose that the chairman of the Rules Committee should clearly inform us that this procedure is legal, that we are not today considering the issue of the gas transport network or not. And one more thing. The Regulatory Committee has appropriate statements and considers that the five national deputies who have entered the majority are today illegally deputies because they have already been appointed to the respective positions, and according to law they cannot reconcile the positions of civil servants and the national deputy. Therefore, this situation must be taken into account and the exclusion of most of those who are congruent with positions today and are the national deputies of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u15	Thank you. National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u16	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm, as always, out of procedure. You know that according to article 84 of the Constitution, a national MP should vote in person. Since a permanent majority has already been created, I understand that you have officially announced this, I suggest that this article be implemented without delay. And I suggest this procedure. On Thursday, when we have a vote, the chairman of the Rules Committee will officially report to the Supreme Council who are absent from the Chamber and whose cards cannot actually vote. I think it's going to be the right watershed between the majority that now has to take full responsibility for the situation in the state and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u18	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! As far as procedure is concerned. Volodymyr Mihailovich, the Supreme Council voted the day order on Government Day: two issues. First. If you want to consider one question, for example, the decision of the Coordinating Board with questionable powers should not be dominant in making such a decision. We should put to the vote the issue of removing a matter from the agenda and win 226 votes. The other one. As far as the creation of a commission is concerned, I think the necessary committee should also be considered in the procedural order by including it in the agenda and by holding an appropriate vote or discussion of the matter. And you know that some of the factions in Parliament think it's necessary to start productive work only after the dots on the political situation in Ukraine are placed. We cannot leave without responding to the false information provided by the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General. That's why I'd like to mean it. We are present here, we are not blocking the meetings of the Supreme Council, given that most of them are. And speaking to the majority, I would ask, especially those who have moved in today, to vote with one card, because you are at the same stake. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time has run out of procedural questions. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u20	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I also wanted to express a point of view from our faction. We voted and approved the government's day-to-day agenda and appointed a separate Supreme Council decision to deal with two issues on Government Day today. So if someone suggests changing the agenda of the government day, please first vote on the ad hoc procedure and then vote on the change in the agenda. This is the first time. Second, the question that has something to do with the commission. I am now addressing you, the so-called majority. In the previous call, the so - called majority in 2000 formed a commission that we set up to study the issue of illicit arms sales. And then they hid the President's criminal actions and his environment, including those of the committees that worked. Today you are once again dragged into the same mud, and you will answer along with those who have committed these crimes, who have stretched out military property. You will not go anywhere out of your conscience, including what has to do with the arms trade. Thirdly, if you look at it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please do what is right for the Chief of the Supreme Council. There's a commission, there's a Supreme Council decision on the issue of illicit arms trafficking, there's a commission head, there's a protocol commission for them to study the problem. [[It's July 11th.]] But nobody has the right to do what they do today -- you're trying to break the rules and laws of Ukraine again. I address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Tymoshenko is the last. I'm the only one asking to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u22	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] I would like to make a statement from our faction that yesterday the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, committed another crime, betrayed the national interests of Ukraine. It's protocoled, there are signatures on the documents on the transfer of our Ukrainian gas transport system to the Russian Federation, and more specifically to the corporations of the Russian Federation. I believe that there are reasons, documentary evidence, all that is necessary in order to make a perfectly legal claim to the investigators and judges regarding the criminal case against Leonid Kuchma. I believe that all the patriots of Ukraine who are in the hall today should not be able to work for the Supreme Council until the issue of treason of national interests, which Leonid Kuchma has done, is considered. We have all the rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u23	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on the vote to include in the agenda a draft regulation on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of illegal arms trafficking. I'd like you to vote for the National People's Deputies. "For" - 225. Please show by factions. Dear National Deputies! I'm told by the faction of SDPU that the card didn't work. Be careful. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I propose to include in the agenda the creation of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the authenticity of the illegal arms trade. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. "For" - 213. Dear National Deputies! That's enough. The factions. I'm asking you to calm down. In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of July 11, this year, there is a Government Day in the Supreme Council, on which two issues are scheduled for the day. The first question is the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of affairs in the country's health system, the second question is the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State policy on the state of reform of Ukraine's oil and gas pipeline complex, its impact on the socio-economic development of the state and the enforcement of legislation in this area. However, the Prime Minister of Ukraine sent a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to move the second issue to November to prepare thoroughly for the consideration of the issue, taking into account the arrangements signed yesterday. The Committee on Fuel Energy and Nuclear Safety agreed with this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm the information I have. I'm not making it up. The national deputies who initiated the draft decision on this issue also agreed to move the matter to November. Dear National Deputies! In this connection, I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Ukraine and asked him to send the texts of the two treaties that were signed yesterday so that we could introduce the people's deputies to them so that the people's deputies could express their point of view and that we could look at the issue in the complex. If you insist, we will ask the Cabinet of Ministers to provide such information if they are ready. And now I'm announcing the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down. Matthew Vladimir Grigorovich, head of the Regulatory Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u24	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. Dear colleagues! Asking us to calm down, and let us act under the current Supreme Council Rules, which is our main law in the workplace. Well, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Article 2.4. 4 The Supreme Council Rules state that the issue of the approved agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session may be dealt with in a different manner than in its intended sequence, delayed, modified and excluded from the agenda by decision of the Supreme Council taken after the discussion of the reduced procedure. The initiator of such a proposal is heard, perhaps by the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant committee of the Supreme Council, with its justification. That is, we need to follow the Rules and the procedure laid down by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. I'd like to go to Valentin Grigorovich and thank him for helping me hold a meeting. But I would like to remind you once again that, perhaps before we go to the consideration of this issue, the head of the Supreme Council or the chairman should have informed us of the real state of affairs and then move on. And I would ask that we should be able to complete this process. Thus, honourable national MPs, the first question does not call into question. Objections the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers to move the question to November. So we need to discuss this. I'm asking the Clivo Andrija Petrovich Committee. Please. And then two for, two for against, and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u26	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[constituency 46, Donetsk Region]] Dear colleagues! The information relating to the transformation of the fuel and energy complex was previously reviewed. The information is very raw. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers has not been prepared for this issue. It should be considered within the framework of the third quarter fuel and energy complex and after the winter preparations. Therefore, it was suggested that the consideration should be postponed for two to three weeks, since the figures for the third quarter would be after 20 October and then all would be considered in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to sign in two for, two against two to discuss this. Light up on the board, please. National MP Billorus, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u28	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please give the floor to the national deputy of Pavlovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! The question is not whether it will be cold in winter or not, but whether Ukraine will be a dependent state, whether it will be an independent state, whether we will preserve sovereignty, a country. Because economic independence determines everything. And that's the question today. Because that framework agreement signed by the President is going to lose $2 billion to the budget. Just think: All the biggest growths in Europe cannot be compared to the losses that this single covenant entails. So while this wound is fresh, we can treat it, we can ask the question not to ratify the treaty and save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u31	Thank you. I'd just like to point out that the national MP is missing. That's right, for the regulatory committee. Infantry National Deputy. Please. Are you in favour, Volodymyr Juliusovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u32	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] I'm in favour of moving this issue forward, because we have to make an informed decision, not talk at all. If we ask questions to talk, then we will spend a lot of time and we will not make a decision. The committee's doing the right thing. The materials have not been prepared, the expert group has not been tested, so we need to move for two weeks, prepare and then discuss this issue and make an effective decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u33	National Deputy Shevchuk, NDP faction. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u34	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Move. I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u35	Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u36	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! I would like to draw the attention of the chairman of the regulatory committee and Mr. Turkinov to the personal vote and personal appeal. The national MP, Belarus, is missing, and he gives his word to someone. Where did he come from, and how did he pass it on? Let us all act in accordance with the arrangements that you require us to implement. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues! The papers are missing, and the charges in this room are ongoing. Before the documents appear, their consideration, analysis, expert evaluation, no discussion will be professional, professional, but will be politicized and no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u37	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Are you "for" or "against"?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u38	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] I am in favour of order, and order was when Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz ruled by Parliament. Therefore, I ask you to give him the floor. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u39	You're still ahead. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u40	Thank you, Anatoly Dmitriovich. It's a faction of socialists. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to ask this question to be settled in a regular manner. The arguments on this point are neither the head of the Honorable Clovis Committee nor the Infantry, because the decision will be made at the next Thursday, and it can be prepared according to the context of the problem itself. Today, the government must express its view of reforming the entire system and answer questions raised by the deputies. And to say that he's not prepared is not serious at all. Well, how can an unprepared government be when such an important document is already signed?Oh, my God! I'm not talking about just this document. That's because the President signed the corresponding document. I ask you to consider it in order. Put to the vote the issue of removing the matter from consideration, and then you can make the right decision. If this issue is not resolved, then he should be considered by inviting the Prime Minister here. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Here's another shade. You remember that after the creation of the majority, it is a coalition government. Imagine if, suddenly, a month from now, there will be another Prime Minister. Who will report? Once again, there's going to be a distraction, and the process is going. You can't let that happen. Please put it to the vote and still consider this issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. We've got two pros, two against the shorter procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't insist! No, no. Two "for", two "against" have already been said. The workpiece, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u42	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] Dear colleagues! I'm in a meeting in the Cabinet of Ministers on the subject of gastransit. There was a negative response from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics to the projects being prepared. If we move along with this logic, our budget doesn't count a large amount -- about 6 billion dollars. This is an extremely important issue before the budget is adopted, and it should therefore be considered. If it's not considered, we'll essentially break the budget process. So I insist that the question be considered today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There are two suggestions. The first, and it is obvious, is that according to the order of the day we should consider this matter. Second: The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to move this issue to November. I'm voting on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to move this issue to November. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, I don't get it? Change the vote. What? I can't hear you. For reasons of vote, Simonenko. I ask everyone to calm down and sit down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u44	The Communist faction. I took the floor on the grounds of the vote, so that you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may make arrangements for the personal composition of the same majority. I also warn you that Blochina is not in the hall, he is in Greece. So I'm asking you to officially remove his card. This is the first time. And second. I'm talking to the majority again. The question is very difficult, painful. It's promising, it has something to do with our particular economy, with our future budget filling. That is why we ask you to consider it today, as we have foreseen by our previous decision and not to remove it from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am voting to postpone the discussion of the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on the state of reform of the oil and gas complex, its impact on the socio-economic development of the state and the enforcement of legislation in this area. Please vote. Turn on the system. "For" - 215. Let's see the factions. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to vote for yourself, remove all other cards. Dear National Deputies! So let's think about it this way: now we're starting to consider the first question. Please contact the Prime Minister and ensure that the necessary officials are present when considering information on the second issue. Is there no objection? Let us turn to the first question. As we listen to two questions, we need to adjust the time to consider them. Thus, it is suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers review the state of affairs in the country’s health care system for 15 minutes, for answers to written and oral questions for 30 minutes, for a statement from the committee - 5 minutes and for a half - hour discussion. Take the rest of the time to consider the following question. Is there no objection? Vitaly Fedorovich Moskalenko, Minister of Health Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u46	Minister of Health of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dearly beloved, fellows! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to thank you for your initiative to hold the Health Day of the Government. Addressing the Ukrainian people on the anniversary of Independence, the President of Ukraine has identified, among strategic social priorities, accessible medical care and affordable medicines, as they directly relate to the lives of tens of millions of our citizens. It is known that the state of health depends on the level of economic development of each country. But the health of the population also depends on the economic development, the security of the nation, and the political stability of every society. Convinced that a comprehensive and impartial analysis of the problems of domestic medicine at such a high level will allow not only to assess what has been done but also to determine the direction of further joint action by the government and the Supreme Council in order to achieve the basic goal of fundamentally improving the health of our fellow countrymen. Dear National Deputies! About how the industry worked, unbiased and, I would say, without the decoration, it's in the information and analysis of the Cabinet of Ministers. So I would consider it possible to stop only on the main. First of all, health care was and remains a top priority not only in the political sphere of the state but also in the practical activities of the government. And some should not underestimate the positive results of their work. The important criteria for national health, such as infant and maternal mortality, disability, and the absence of epidemics of dangerous infections have been improved; diphtheria, viral hepatitis, and acute intestinal infections have been reduced; Ukraine has been certified as an area free of polio; and Ukrainian medicine and medicines at affordable prices are emerging in the domestic market. But let me be honest and frank: Unsolved problems remain more than those that have been solved. There are objective reasons for this. Our aspirations and actions for improving the health of the people have been halted by the constant influence of a set of adverse factors that have been accumulated for decades. Among these are demographic problems, primarily: significant population ageing, environmental conditions and the medical consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, inadequate living standards for most people, the residual, extremely inadequate level of funding for the health sector -- less than half of the need. Moreover, these medically independent problems have deepened the socio-economic crisis in the state. Allow me, distinguished national MPs, literally in a few words to describe what has been done in those difficult conditions. Despite the existence of a listed set of factors, a complete health system has been preserved and it has been developed. By providing assistance to the medical community, some of the activities of the early 1990s have already been exceeded. In recent years, there has been a tendency to improve the financial, human and material resources of the health sector by increasing the country’s macroeconomic performance. Today, public policy in the medical field is defined by the “Concept for the Development of Health in the People’s Republic of Ukraine”. Today’s composition of the government has begun to be fulfilled. In a market society that takes into account European choice, nations are developing modern legal principles of domestic medicine. It is only this year that 41 health legislation has been adopted at the level of the President, the Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine, including 10 targeted programmes to assist villagers, children and mothers, veterans, oncology, transplantology, iodo-prescription, etc. In particular, I stress the importance of the Intersectoral Comprehensive Program “The Health of the Nation. ” It defines ways to systematically address intersectoral problems, healthy lifestyles, active demographic policies, working conditions, ecology, accessibility, and quality of health care — all that shapes human health. Dear National Deputies! The current political and fundamental legal principles of activity have allowed the industry to focus its potential on solving the fundamental health problems. I'll start with the availability of medical care. It must be admitted that it is not yet sufficient. It refers not only to physical availability of help but also to its extent, its quality, and, most importantly, to the final outcome of health for everyone. What has been done by the government in this direction? First. With the aim of approaching the availability of primary health care, the increased number of outpatients and clinics, primarily in the village, is improving their equipment for modern equipment, transportation, means of communication, along with the restructuring of Felddsherkoaksher resorts and outpatients in large villages, the preservation of the network of medical facilities, and the introduction of family medicine. But we recognize that the rate of change in the primary health care chain is currently slow, and we see our task in their acceleration, maximizing the concentration of the resources of the center and the regions. The other one. In Ukraine, more accessible and highly specialized forms of medical care have become available, such as cardiosurgery, neurosurgery, oncohematology, and others. However, the development of costly medical technologies is constrained by insufficient funding. In these circumstances, with the support of the Supreme Council since 2000, a targeted principle of spending planning has been introduced for the most priority issues not only in the field but also in the general public. Among them are warnings of infectious diseases, tuberculosis and AIDS, maternal and childhood protection, diabetes, malignant neoplasms, cardiovascular diseases. For the past two years, immun prevention has been a priority in government activities through the transfer of vaccines to public budget funding and the fullest possible funding for these needs. It is appropriate to note that the introduction of national and national health programs and measures raises doubts about their relevance today. But in our view, there is a number of arguments as to the need for such actions. It is by means of which a health strategy is defined, although not all programs are fully resourced. However, the filling of regional budgets to finance specific priority objectives is taking place and the use of funds is being controlled. According to estimates, the implementation of all 4 billion dollars worth of programs and measures by 2011 will prevent the country’s losses of 30.8 billion dollars. So the projected economic, social and medical efficiency if fully implemented would be 26.8 billion dollars. Isn't that an argument? In addition, we already have some positive results from the implementation of programs. It is also important that a basic list of the public expenses required for the introduction of a compulsory health insurance is formed. Third. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to focus on some of the sharpest issues: tuberculosis and AIDS. The problems noted are not only a threat in our country. Tuberculosis, for example, is a global development of so - called multi-resistance forms. In order to overcome these socio-hazardous diseases, Ukraine has created a virtually full legal and financial mechanism consisting of Ukrainian laws, presidential decrees and government regulations. In addition, the global AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria fund, the World Health Organization, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, as well as the funds provided for in international agreements have recently been involved. The measures have already improved the effectiveness of tuberculosis treatment, stabilized mortality, and reduced the number of HIV-infected newborns. The State’s systematic steps to combat AIDS have received a high international rating at a special session of the UN General Assembly, which took place at the initiative of Ukraine. Our country’s work is recognized as an example of a large - scale decisive response to the epidemic. Four. Another problem of national health care is the lack of preventive measures. It is known that this is the least expensive way to preserve the health of citizens. It is therefore necessary to step up our interaction to ensure that every health - care provider is provided, to reduce the risks associated with the polluted environment, primarily through effective control of the quality of food, drinking water, and air. The introduction of a new national preventive vaccination calendar, which fully meets the requirements of the VOC in Europe, will help to further reduce the level of infectious diseases. Improving a healthy lifestyle will be facilitated by the implementation of the State Strategy for Overcoming Poverty. There is also a need for more purpose in developing physical culture, limiting and progressively banning the advertising of alcohol and tobacco products, especially those with high nicotine and resin content. Thank you for asking these questions. Dear National Deputies! In order to improve the quality of medical care, the government also solves the staffing problem, which has two important elements: improving the training of young professionals and social protection of working physicians. What is done in this direction? Changes are taking place at a university medical school where the experience of developed countries is being introduced. For an objective, independent medical student, government licensing examinations have been introduced. New specialties have been introduced: medical psychology, clinical pharmacies, and health - care management. More than 180 modern - day Ukrainian - language textbooks for medical facilities have been published. To highlight, doctors, we prepare as much as the country needs. Almost everyone gets a job. One priority is to provide village personnel. An improved material and technical base of universities is already allowing us to start a modern form of postgraduate education, a resident. The other side of the human resources problem is their social protection. During the past year and a half, the government has doubled the wages of the medical community. In total, it is increased by 40 percent. In fact, the average wage increased by 50 percent in the first half of 2002 compared to 2000. The next promotion is planned. The adoption of a single tariff grid will restore the differentiation of medical salaries. The current debt from the salary is virtually eliminated. But let me remind you, honourable national MPs, that at the average wage level, 227 bracelets of medicine have one of the last places in other areas. At the same time, more than half of the government’s health budget has already been directed to the government’s wages, which is 70 percent in the regions. So there's a deepening imbalance between the sectoral costs. There's been a decline in expenditure on drugs and diagnostics in general. So together, we need to try to remove the imbalances that exist. Dear National Deputies! The health condition is certainly characterized by the availability of medicines. This is an important problem for our people, especially the elderly. Their production has increased significantly in order to reduce tension and supply drugs. In the market, the weight of Ukrainian medicines is already 46 percent. But the next challenge is to increase the production of domestic analogues of imported drugs, which will cost them. The purpose is also to help anyone who needs treatment but is unable to pay for medication. Today, it is essential to improve the financial capacity of the industry to buy medicines for hospitals and clinics. This requires additional funds from local budgets in 2003 -- not less than 200 million dollars, which still need to be found and managed for targeted use. Dear National Deputies! With regard to the general state of medical financing. Since 1999, health spending in general has increased by 64 percent, or 2.6 billion. Now the sector budget is 6.5 billion dollars. Yet, frankly, the level of health funding is still insufficient. For one person a year, only 133 bracelets are available and 141 bracelets are foreseen for the following year. Projected by the 2003 consolidated health budget, an increase of 4.8 percent of expenditure cannot provide a significant improvement in the financial situation of the sector, since these costs can be absorbed by the full cost of living. In terms of budget deficits, the government continues to form a multichannel health financing system. However, there is a lack of legislative support for the provision of non-budgetary funds. Please support the Cabinet of Ministers in a more precise legal definition of health care and medical services. Such proposals in the form of a draft law are found in the Supreme Council. Their approval will allow them to withdraw from the shadow sector the considerable costs that revolve around the medical field. The adoption of the Tax Code should also contribute to improving the financing of the sector. Dear National Deputies! Health problems affect each and every one of us. The government is fully aware that today the improvement of the quality of national health care is not yet felt by all. But I want to be honest with you that, even when you work under a limited amount of funding for a small salary, the country’s doctors have achieved good results. I will allow myself to thank them for their patience and professionalism. Dear National Deputies! In general, the most acute problems that have been discussed. This is a restriction on health financing; lack of access to health care and medicines, especially for socially vulnerable rural populations; the spread of tuberculosis and AIDS; low medical pay; and, as a result, still a slow rate of improvement in national health. Therefore, the current stage in the development of the medical field requires more fundamental changes and coordinated actions and responsibilities of politicians and all branches of government - parliament, government and regional authorities. At the local level, there is a need to ensure that regional programs are implemented in line with the Interbranch Integrated Programme "Health of the Nation" to increase the network of outpatients, family medicine facilities, pharmacies, especially in rural areas, are used to maximize the health benefits of local budgets. At the level of the government, the tasks envisaged in its programme of work presented for approval by the Supreme Council must be carried out. This will help to solve the problems of availability of medical care, improve the financing of the field, and reduce the pay gap in medical work. The Cabinet of Ministers already has a bill to significantly improve the status of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals. At the level of the Supreme Council, it is necessary to accelerate the adoption of system laws such as: The National Social Insurance Act and the new edition of the Health Law. This will create a legal basis for multi-channel financing of the sector, increase its volume, and ensure that a state-guaranteed grant of free medical care is implemented. In addition, with a view to making effective use of available funds in the medical field, we propose amendments to the Budget Code. It is important to create conditions for the transfer of health bills between budgets of all levels, and to identify the main funds managers at the district and city levels. Dear National Deputies! I am confident that the adoption by Parliament of these legislative acts will be the heart of the transformation into domestic health. To deepen and accelerate them, the government has proposed the creation of a Council for Development and Health Reform under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, a well-known scientist, politician and public figures. By completing my statement, let me thank you on behalf of the government for your support and assistance in solving health problems. Convinced that their solution is possible only by strengthening our fruitful relationship with the Supreme Council, which is one of the main priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the minister's report is over. Please sign up for the question. Please, Vitalia Fedorovich, you have a written question. One written, one directly from the national deputies, we will queue. Put it on the board, please. Please answer the written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you very briefly how many written requests and questions have been sent to the Ministry of Health. During the preparation period for Government Day, 50 written questions were received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine from individual deputies to the government, and 69 were actually written. I would like to inform you that, in particular, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has sent 15 written questions, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour - 7, the Committee on Science - 7, and other committees - 2-4. We are very grateful for the questions asked, all of which are systemic, deep, affecting the most pressing health problems of today. As a matter of fact, the honourable national deputies, we have analyzed, and we have during this six - year period 704 questions from 337 national deputies regarding health problems. However, the formulation of most of the questions is rich in content and contains a number of questions. And what we've done is we've done a calculation of the time that's only needed for their announcement, and we've shown that this procedure can take up the entire time, or even more, so we've grouped together questions about problems and content and we're offering to answer the most relevant questions within the time frame. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to show you the number of these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u49	You start with the first one, and please answer it, and then there will be questions from the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u50	First of all, we consider it necessary to answer the question posed by the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, which was 15. So, questions. "One of the methods recognized worldwide for ensuring the rational use of health funds is to strengthen the role of primary health care, the role of a family doctor or a general practice doctor. What has been done specifically by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 20 June 2000 on comprehensive measures for the introduction of family medicine into the health system? When does the government plan to ensure a full transition to primary health care on the basis of family medicine on a national scale? How are plans for the preparation and retraining of the appropriate personnel being implemented, ensuring the material and technical conditions of their effective activities? When will the creation of appropriate unified programs and conditions be resolved to ensure the economic activity of family doctors?" Dear Mikolo Efraemovich, thank you for your questions and for your answer. I want to point out that the process of transition to primary health care on the basis of family medicine is progressive and long-term. Comprehensive measures for the introduction of family medicine into the health care system, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers’s decree, are planned for the period until 2005, and are only the first step in this process. Today more than 800 facilities of family medicine have been created. Most of these networks are developed in rural areas, where almost 80 percent of these facilities are concentrated. The number of full - time family doctors compared to the year 2000 was 2.5 times higher and today there are 1,500 doctors who have improved their working conditions. The salaries are already likened to the salaries of doctors with a surgical profile. The implementation of measures to improve rural medicine has helped to strengthen the material and technical base of family medicine institutions and to improve the working conditions of family doctors and to provide them with housing. The training and training of family doctors are being carried out. On October 1, 2000, 1,520 family doctors were trained as part of a six - year retraining program for family therapists and pediatricians. This year, 295 interns, the future family physicians, began to be trained in a two-way office called General Practice, Family Medicine. In order to further develop family medicine, the Ministry created a regulatory branch that regulates the organizational technological introduction of family medicine in Ukraine. Medical authorities are actively involved in the reform of primary health care. In Ukraine, last November, the first family medical assembly was held, at which the concept of family medicine was approved. The Ukrainian Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities sets out the levels of rights of property owners, including family medical facilities. This is the answer to the first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u51	Thank you. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction. Your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u52	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vitalia Fedorovich! We Communists, national deputies, are very concerned about the medical situation, the health system, and we always support you to improve the situation. But there are two questions. First. When you were talking about expanding the network of treatment facilities in the village, I thought you were talking about not Ukraine, but another state, maybe Belarus. Because it's actually a very different picture in the village. Hospitals are shrinking, they're in poor shape, there's no funding and there's no such thing. [[referred to district hospitals, fapas]] Do you not know? The other one. We have medicine for free, it is enshrined in the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court has also confirmed it. But when a sick person crosses the threshold of a hospital, he's immediately asked, "Do you have any money?" If not, no one will treat her. Don't you think that's why we have mortality twice as much as birth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u53	Thank you for asking a serious, deep question and for your support. I want to say that, in fact, in 1996-1997, the network was optimized and the number of district hospitals was reduced. The question is ambiguous. Two years ago, the Ministry of Health banned the reduction of the network in rural areas. I want to say that in two years, we have additionally opened 295 medical clinics, and in general more than 1,000 have been opened in ten years. If some places are said to be closed to local hospitals, a family medical outpatient clinic must be established instead. With regard to the reduction of paws, I want to say that the two government programs suggest that we reversely strengthen the network of institutions in the countryside. We're proposing in the settlements where 1,000 or more people live, to create medical outpatient clinics instead of paws, which we're already doing successfully this year. In addition, facsimiles will be opened at all other locations. According to the three - year construction program, we plan to build some 300 new faps and about 250 rural medical clinics next year. That is, there is a powerful development of the rural health system. I want to say that this year we sent 685 ambulances and 600 units of expensive equipment to the village: these are ULN devices, artificial lung ventilation and other techniques. What I'm saying is that there's no central district hospital today that doesn't have an O.O.O.S. device and an O.R.D.D. equipment, even though two years ago we had almost 600 central district hospitals that didn't have one. That is, our attention will continue to be given to improving the rural health system. Now we're planning to hand over about 50 ambulances that will only be sent to rural areas for the needs of rural ambulances and rural medicine. [[If we've already got the money.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u54	It's a written question. Vitalia Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u55	I apologize, but there was another question about free medicine. You listened carefully to my report, but I'll do it again. At present, 70 percent of local budget expenditure is paid, 10 percent is cost of energy, and 20 percent is left to provide a medical diagnostic process. We ask you to support the Ministry of Health, so that next year, 470 million dollars will be spent on drugs and diagnostics. That's very, very little, that's an average of 10 dollars per capita in our country. What can be done for 10 bracelets? We suggest adding at least half of these funds so that our people can actually feel the qualitative changes in the provision of medical care. Because there are two problems: medical pay and medical care. Our people don't care how many hospitals we have, they don't care how many doctors we have, they're interested in the availability of health care and medicine, the end result. So we're going to keep trying to solve this problem, and that's the only problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u56	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u57	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to read another written question from the committee and then from other committees and factions. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, head of the Committee on Health and Childhood: "What measures, taking into account the need to make effective use of limited financial resources for health care, is being used by the Government to ensure the forecasting and forward-looking planning and preparation of the required number of medical personnel for the State in the higher health education institutions of II-IV levels of accreditation?" Thank you for asking. Dear Mikolo Efraemovich! The staff of doctors by individuals in the Ministry of Health system has improved today and is 82.7 percent, but there is a deficit. Today we have problems, especially with doctors in the labs, Phthiatrists, pathological anatoms, which are approximately 50 to 60 percent of what we need. Including, we have 18 percent of retired doctors today. So there's a significant shortage of personnel in the area. Taking into account these and other factors that affect the needs of public and municipal personnel and health care agencies, some 8,000 doctors are trained. [[forecasts of the demographic situation, outlook changes in the network, structure and organization of health institutions]] In addition, the need for nonstate structures in the field of expertise is increasing, and the development of nonstate medicine is under way. The limits of financial resources in the sector do not allow health care to be fully met in the preparation of personnel under the government’s order of 3,800 doctors this year. The government deficit is compensated by admission to education at the expense of legal and physical persons. This year, 3,773 students, who are Ukrainian citizens, and about 1,500 other foreign students, were admitted to medical facilities. During 2003, the Ministry of Health made a proposal to the Ministry of Economics to increase the number of people in the government to prepare medical personnel when they were accepted, which would help to increase the interest of students who are studying at the request of the government. I would like to add that the Ministry of Health, especially in the past and a half years, has been very strict in controlling government procurement, training, distribution of students, especially in the rural areas. I want to say that 65 percent of all doctors who completed our government - ordered bonds have been sent to the countryside this year. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u58	Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u59	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Vitalia Fedorovich! Of course, it is very difficult to heal an arm or a leg when the whole body is ill. And we saw it somewhere this morning. Nevertheless, the lion’s share of the funding of the health care system consumes the maintenance of facilities and wages for health workers. This year the Ministry began to think about the need to increase the cost of drug purchases. Of course, chemotherapy for cancer patients, self-vaccination and so on is a list that should be continued today at the expense of some government program. At what cost, and how does the ministry plan to solve the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u60	Thank you, Reverend Lilia Stepanovno. I want to say, honourable national deputies, that in order to have priority in the state, we have developed 21 national programs. They're coming true today. Yeah, there's a question about funding them, but if it wasn't, there wouldn't be any funding. What I'm saying is that funding for drugs is much better this year. [[both at national and local levels]] The financing of health - care facilities increased by 300 million dollars, compared with last year’s 100 million dollars, and government purchases increased by 100 million. [[for operational data in nine months]] With regard to individual programs, we would like to protect people from socially dangerous diseases, such as AIDS, tuberculosis, cancers, and other diseases, in order to greatly improve their status in our country. In addition, I want to say that the implementation of government programs has not led to a reduction in health expenditure, in medicine in regional budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u61	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u62	Thank you. A very big question from the Health Committee, which deals with the problems of the formation. In one question, five questions. I want to remind you very briefly what this is all about. The first is the creation and maintenance of a system for monitoring prices of manufacturers and suppliers for essential essential medical supplies. The second is an analysis of the size of the trade premiums in prices. The third is the introduction of a system of state registration for essential essential medical supplies and medical supplies for domestic and foreign production. The fourth is to ensure transparency and transparency in the pricing system for essential essential medical supplies and medical supplies. A fifth review of the licensing conditions for the introduction of retail business by medical means. Let me answer this very big question, which is two pages. Dear Mikolo Efraemovich, thank you for asking. The Ministry of Health has done this: First. Price monitoring for daily medical devices has been performed, about 400 of the most recent drugs used in demand. Six electronic databases have been developed and systematically updated, allowing for the analysis of the dynamics of the retail implementation of medicines, wholesale prices of domestic manufacturers and drug distributors, the monitoring of imports of pharmaceutical products, the introduction of statistical reports on the extent of the production of medicinal products, the completion of a system for the monitoring of the customs value and the analysis of world prices on the basis of the essential imported medicines. The other one. Regarding trade allowances, I inform you that in November of last year, the government of Ukraine has imposed restrictions on trade in medicines that are subject to government regulation: 10 per cent for budget-funded treatment plants and 35 per cent for retail trade. As a result, regional disparities in price levels decreased by 0.6 percent over a six - year period. As evidenced by the analysis, in all regions of Ukraine the average level of drug trade premiums that are regulated is 32 percent lower than in the previous year, by 11 percent. In 2001, 43 percent. The regulated portion of drugs has increased nearly 4 times -- 1200 appointments. Third. Regarding the national registration of prices, I will note that the Ministry of Health, along with the Ministry of Economics for European Integration and the Ministry of Finance, is developing a system of state registration of prices for medical devices included in the national census of essential essential medical supplies and medical supplies. According to an analysis of the system of pricing for medical devices in Ukraine and the basic principles of pricing for medical devices in 17 foreign countries, the concept of pricing for medical devices has been developed, and five methods will be followed by an expert on the price and order of national registration of prices for medical devices. Soon these documents will be sent by the Ministry to all ministries. Thus, state price registration can be introduced in the following year. Question four. In order to ensure transparency in price formation, there are two standing interdisciplinary commissions and working groups on pricing and listings. It includes experts from appropriate ministries, renowned scientists, leading manufacturers, distributors, and the public. As for the national census of essential essential medical supplies and medical supplies, it was published in the Official Gazette of Ukraine in December last year. The position on this list was published in the magazine Providence. The Ministry printed a national list of individual brochures and distributed them to drug market participants. Fifth, final question, regarding the review of licensing conditions. The Ministry of Health, jointly ordered by the State Corporation, reviewed the licensing conditions for wholesale and retail trade in medical devices to simplify their activities. I'm going to point out that during the license period of January 26, no drugstores have been closed. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u63	National Deputy Sovkovich. You don't? National Deputy Razwadowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u64	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. [[constituency 69, Žitomir district]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like first of all to support the minister and ask you to consider this issue as soon as possible in order to increase the wages of medical workers. And the question, dear Vitalia Fedorovich, is this to you. Please state the number of parliamentary appeals to medical facilities and to motor vehicles and for what amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u65	Thank you for your support and a very serious question. As I've already reported to the people's deputies, we're doing a special monitoring. I can tell by all the letters and questions of the National MPs, I've already called the number of them, I can tell you about the structure, I can tell by factions and even by individual MPs. I would like to put it this way: in 9 months of this year, 53 MPs were addressed to the Ministry of Health for the allocation of medical and preventive facilities in Ukraine totalling 21.4 million dollars, including 31 letters on the allocation of sanitary vehicles, which will cost approximately 1.5 million dollars. That's 30 percent of the people's letters of assistance are in the call structure, 12 percent of them are aiding regions to buy equipment. [[the second question by a drunk weight]] If we have 21 million in six months, and the budget has only allowed us to do so for about the same amount, then we will ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the ministry in improving the material and technical base of our district hospitals that need to be modernized, because today there are worn-out X-ray machines that have very little modern equipment, and on average 75 percent of the equipment needs replacement and replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u66	A written question, please, Vitalia Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u67	And there is a very serious question. As a result of the audit of the use of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine allocated for 2001-2000 to the Ministry of Health for the purchase of medical equipment, observations were made regarding the purposeless use of certain amounts. [[is meant to be checked by the Accounting Chamber]] [[I can call them.]] I want to answer this big question so that there are no other questions later. Dear Mikolo Efraemovich, thank you for asking. Indeed, the use of government budget funds allocated to the Ministry in 2000-2001 for the purchase of medical equipment was pointed out in a number of shortcomings and violations by the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. In fact, they can be grouped into four separate blocks: centralized procurement of medical equipment, sanitary transport at the expense of the state budget for the regions; lack of material and technical provisions for higher education institutions; purposeless use of funds and receivables; and purchase of imported equipment. On the first block of questions. In 2000-2001, the government budget of 17.4 million dollars was used for the purchase of ambulances and medical equipment at the expense of local budgets. These expenses are defined by the Court of Auditors as illegal or as not to be met by the State budget. The Ministry of Health cannot accept such conclusions. The critical state of the material and technical base of public health institutions, especially in rural areas, which is now being addressed, has made the problem a public concern. In connection with this President of Ukraine, decrees were issued in 1999 and in this year, and the implementation of the decrees in the State budget included targeted budget allocations for centralized purchase of medical equipment and sanitary transport for health facilities for the year 2000 amounting to 19.2 million dollars and for the year 2001 to 6.2 million dollars, which were provided free of charge to public and municipal health institutions. Over the course of two years, the regions received 568 units of sanitation and over 600 units of expensive medical equipment -- CCDs, laboratory research equipment, electrocardiographs, kuvez-clinical, drug-breathing equipment for children and other equipment. In 2002, the government budget approved a separate budget programme for centralized high - value hospital equipment worth 117 million dollars. I've told you that we've already used about 20 million today. The other one. With regard to the planning of budgetary allocations for the acquisition of equipment by higher education institutions, they apply to the standards of the material and technical provision of universities. In the field of education today, there are serious reforms, there is a material and technical basis, when 70 percent of medical and other equipment is morally and physically outdated, does not allow education institutions to conduct educational, scientific and international activities according to modern conditions and standards of higher health education, and more than 50 percent of students, 25 percent of whom are foreign citizens, are trained on pay terms. Budget allocations for the acquisition of equipment and durable items in recent years have not been foreseen for higher education institutions in the state budget. The acquisition of equipment in recent years has been made solely by means of the funds of a special fund, that is, the funds they have earned. The MlH agrees with the need for the development of material and technical provisions for universities, although this does not require much time and additional budgetary resources for their financial support, and we are ready to work together on this issue with Minosveta, Minfin and Mineconomy, and we will do so. Third. Regarding non-target, inefficient use of funds. In 2000, the Institute of Emergency and Recovery Surgery in Donetsk received 623,9 thousand bracelets from the Department of Health of the Donetsk Authority for the purchase of electrocardiostimulators and artificial valves of the heart that were used for the purpose. However, there was room for a formal breach in accounting. But all these drugs and equipment were handed over to the hospital and worked, that is, there were no violations. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u68	National MP Levcun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u69	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear Vitalia Fedorovich! I passed on my questions in writing, and for oral questions, please give the floor to the deputy in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u71	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Julia Timoshenko's block. In the budget for the following year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is proposed to allocate 2 billion 513 million dollars. The Academy of Tax Services alone offers 40 million dollars. And to develop the entire network of scientific activities in preventive medicine, it's 155 thousand dollars. That is, the authority protects, not the health of the people, but itself. And we call on the people of October 12th, at 2:00 p.m., to come to the European Square and there at the People's Tribunal to express their position on the actions of the President, who should be the guarantor of citizens' rights to health. So you have a specific question. If the President is a guarantor of the right of citizens to health care, do you not feel that what guarantee, as well as the health of the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u72	I just want to say, honourable national deputies, that, in fact, the state of health funding is not yet sufficient, and I said this in the report. Today, there are positive results: over the last three years, we have 64 percent of the growth in real funding -- that's 2.6 billion. Every year, health care and the past also received 1 billion additional funds. Today, we have counted all the money spent in the State for health care not only by the Ministry of Health, by regional authorities, but by ministries of various fields. And I'm asking you to show this slide with the budget. Today, 7.6 billion dollars are spent on health care — about 3.1 percent of GDP. In fact, we have a fairly high figure right now, and it's better than it has been in the last four years. But health care really needs extra attention and additional funding. I ask you to look at this slide: the State Budget, the local budgets, the special costs, the costs of all ministries, I mean the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense, the Railroads, that's all the costs spent today in the state. And look, please, today we've analyzed 6.8 billion for health care, and in fact it's 7.6 billion, that's the latest data for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u73	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u74	There's still a question from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u75	Just one question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u76	Thank you. "When does the government plan to develop and implement State social standards in the field of health, as provided for in article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees, adopted by the Supreme Council two years ago, in October 2000?" Thank you for asking. Dear Mikolo Efraemovich! In order to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Standards and Public Social Guarantees, the Ministry of Health has completed the drafting of State social standards in the field of health by the end of this year. The corresponding classification is defined by 9 separate groups, the main ones are the standards of needs for stationary and outpatient care, medical care for sanitation, nutrition and so on. I consider it appropriate to list all groups specifically, since this will be a necessary component in the system of compulsory health insurance: the provision of health care facilities for a certain area; the provision of health care services for all citizens free of charge in public and municipal health institutions; the provision of health care standards, which include diagnostic, medical and preventive procedures, quality of medical care; the provision of health care benefits for individual categories of the population; health care and other special care; the provision of hospital health care standards; and the provision of health care for medicines for public and community health institutions. At present, these standards have been carried out in the field of expertise and are in agreement with the relevant authorities. We plan to implement national social standards in the area of health care in the following year. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u77	Thank you. Vitalia Fedorovich, time's up. Thank you. From the profile committee, please, who will be speaking? The committee head? Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Mikolo Efraemovich, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u78	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[election district 214, Kiev]] Dear national deputies, members of the government, are invited. All of you had the opportunity to consult the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of affairs in the country’s health system. They may conclude that there are no problems in this area. However, the vast majority of you, the distinguished national electorates, who met with the voters, found that the real positive changes in Ukraine’s health system had unfortunately not taken place. The protection of the health of the people has never become a priority of government policy. Another example of this is the 2003 Government Budget for Ukraine's Cabinet, where almost all the main indicators of financing the sector compared to last year are expected to be reduced. Health expenditure from the general budget fund under the government project is expected to decrease by 3.6 percent, but there is a substantial increase in funding for fiscal and force structures. During the summer of this year, doctors in Ukraine were forced to take part in a protest against public health and wage policies that is now one of the lowest in the budgetary sphere. Today, doctors claim to be ready for new, more determined action, as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been implemented since July 11 of this year to raise the wages of doctors. All of this can't stop us from worrying about you. The Committee is concerned about the reduction in funding of the TB program on two occasions against 2002. In the first half of the year, only 0.4 million dollars, or 3.2 percent, were allocated to centralized measures to combat tuberculosis from 12.8 million dollars. There is no solution to the problem of cancer. In 2001, these measures were funded by about 14 percent, and in the first half of this year, no funds were used at all. Not even 5.5 million bracelets have been used. I am fully responsible for the fact that Ukraine has no equipment for adequate radiation therapy for cancer patients, and it needs about 120,000 patients a year. As a result, some 30,000 people die each year without adequate help. The available devices, from the words of radiologists, are not suitable for use, because they cause irreversible impressions of organs and radiation sickness in humans. The Ministry of Health has not set priorities for the purchase of high - value equipment; it does not ensure its efficient use. In Kiev, 9 MRIs, 8 angiographs for diagnostics, and no radiotherapy equipment for cancer patients. The question is, Who should know about this? Prime Minister or Minister? In the first half of the year, the Ministry of Health did not use 1.6 million dollars to provide medical care for the National Children of Ukraine programme. How can it be understood that the purchase of imported insulins is provided by 100 percent and that the domestic producer, who produces quality insulins, owes more than 33 million dollars to the State in the Ministry?Oh, my God! As a result, unique production was threatened by a halt. And there are plenty of such examples. What are these national policies and the state’s approach to the system?Oh, my God! As you can see, if there's a financial deficit, they're still being used ineffectively. And in terms of limited funding, the efficient use of all possible resources is extremely important. [[personnel, material and technical]] In order to ensure the stability and reform of health care, improving the quality of health care for the population is essential: the conversion of state and municipal health institutions from budgetary institutions to self-employed economic entities; the implementation of the already adopted Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense; the development and implementation of social standards for the quality of health care; and the strengthening of the role of primary health care. [[In the area of the purchase of medical services]] Today, we need 33,000 family doctors, and there are 1.3 thousand, and 500 each year, according to the report. It takes 62 years to wait for us to provide medical attention! But without this, no insurance medicine in Ukraine will work. According to the illegal creation by the Department of State of Quality Control, Security and Medical Management of the Network of Commercial Institutions, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has been criminalized. According to the General Prosecutor’s Office’s Committee, the officials of the Ministry of Health are in violation of the requirements of the laws for the conduct of the solicitation of medical supplies. This is because the advantage is given to imported producers in front of the natives. According to the U.S. Court of Auditors, there have been numerous violations of the ILO and its budgetary disciplines. Therefore, honourable national deputies, the committee believes that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health in the area of public health should be considered unsatisfactory and recommended to the President and the Prime Minister to take appropriate organizational action. The committee’s draft decision has been handed down to you, and it has been supported by virtually all the members of the committee, although not everyone has for various reasons. We also ask you to support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to discussion, to debate. On the way from the rostrum, 25 national deputies were enrolled. Please put the list on the board. The word is given to the People's Deputy, the People's Choice Group. To prepare for the people's deputy Masenka. Please. I ask you to follow the Rules, we have 20 minutes to debate, so that more deputies will be able to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u80	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[electoral district 104, Lugansk Region]] Dear colleagues! As we consider the state of medicine today, we are addressing one of the highest priorities of both society and the State, because the country's resource potential, its security, is directly linked to health and public health. I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that during the electoral campaign there was virtually no candidate who in any case did not note in his programme that improvements in the health system are urgently needed today. [[Whether he's a major or a member of the bloc]] Therefore, without trying to describe the situation as a whole, I would like to say that we must not only assess the Government's activities in this area today, but, in my view, also discuss a legislative plan of action so that we can contribute to improving the health care of the population. As we have heard from the report of a member of the Government - the Minister of Health - much has been done in recent years to improve health. But I don't think that's enough. This can be said to be the softest language available today to assess the state of health care for the population. But I would also like to say that we can present any claims to the Ministry today, but as long as medicine does not have sufficient funding, this will all remind us of finding the culprit, regardless of who is to blame. For this reason, it is essential to identify sources of funding first and foremost today. Only then can it be said that qualitative changes in medicine will take place. Next moment. The main components of diagnosis and treatment are medicines and medical equipment. According to statistics, today we have two bracelets spent in the State on the medical care of one patient a day. [[More precisely, one bunk space.]] There's no point in explaining to you from this rostrum that you can't buy almost anything for two bracelets today. I therefore believe that we should support the Ministry's proposals and, in considering the State Budget Act 2003, provide for an increase in the cost of the purchase of medicines for local health institutions by at least 180 to 200 million grivens from the state budget transfers to local budgets. [[I emphasize that - local submission]] That is, at least one-and-a-half increases in this amount should be made, which I think will significantly improve medical care. Another problem that I think should be addressed by the legislature: the budget code, which has been in force for only a year and a half, already requires changes and additions. If we do not implement them soon, the rural health financial institutions system, the inter-budget relations of the various health institutions, can be destroyed definitively and irreversible processes will begin. I would like to say that today the system for the distribution of inter-budget transfers needs to be improved. And the last. I believe that today, in society, in the State and in the Supreme Council, there are all the necessary prerequisites to make a qualitative leap and adopt the Act on Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Good political will is all that is needed]] If we do not do so and resolve financial issues, it can be considered that everything else will be an empty earthquake. I propose that the Government's work in this regard be considered insufficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I ask you to abide by the Rules. We need to consult. We've got a lot of national MPs on the show. How are we going to act, by giving word to factions and committees or to those who sign up, in order? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE All right, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u82	Then the word is given to the national MP Masenko. He will be followed by the national deputy of Hinsburg. I'm asking you to follow the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u83	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear fellow MPs! I would like to draw your attention to how the reports of today’s two rapporteurs and their assessments of the health care situation in our country differ. Perhaps the state of health in the state should report to the Prime Minister, or at least to the Deputy Prime Minister. Or we simply put the minister of health in an awkward position. I can testify that even in this difficult situation, the health care system is a positive solution, and I know the facts when many Ukrainian citizens have received effective assistance. But, dear friends, understand this: if even every citizen of Ukraine gives a few packs of pills of different kinds, but at the same time, a person will be malnourished, constantly underwhelming, living in cold, unburned rooms, I think that medicine will be powerless. It will not help if the minimum life - needs of a person are not provided. There's always one problem: to treat our people properly, there's no money in the state, there's no money in the budget, there's no money in the citizens. In fact, our citizens don't have that kind of money, but let's see why they're not in the budget. We're talking about economic growth everywhere, so why is the budget shrinking? This should be asked by the Prime Minister and the President, why is the budget declining? All say that only the blind do not see this increase! Can't you see who's blind? It may already be a sacrifice to all and purchase some reinforced glasses and give them to both the President and the Prime Minister and other officials so that they can see all that the people are suffering, the people are sick, the people cannot be cured. I had to be in Germany recently. We didn't see any Mercedes on the streets of Berlin. Why don't you take a look at us at the Supreme Council on the other streets of Kiev? If all of us were to drive on domestic cars, it may be that the cost could be directed to health care. So my suggestion is that if today's conversation is not to turn into a simple conversation, we need to reduce the funding of the Supreme Council, the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, and direct these funds to health care, increase the allocation at least twice or three times. Only then will we be able to provide effective medical care for our people. With regard to the draft decree, I support the proposal to recognize the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of public health as unsatisfactory, but I do not consider such activities to be the work of the Minister and the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Hinzburg. Next is the national deputy Babourin. Olga Petrovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u85	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 161, Sumska oblast]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today I went to this rostrum because, working in the district, I felt how acute the health problems of my constituents, Ukrainians, were. And these problems need to be heard from this rostrum today, and I want to give them a little bit of light here. The main concern of medical professionals is the low level of funding. Today, four kopecks a day are allocated to the treatment of a patient who is in hospital! It's a complete joke. Even in the years of the Great Homeland War and after the war, we didn't have one. Neither are national programmes funded. Of the 10 very serious programmes currently, only diabetes control programmes are funded and little is the TB control programme. The number of rural hospitals is declining. There's no funds for vaccinations, diphtheria vaccines, tuberculosis. [[about 1,000 grevens per quarter]] Another problem I would like to draw attention to is the low wages of health workers. The minimum wage of 165 bracelets, which has been set today, has been equalized by a sanitary, cleaning woman, a locksmith, and a nurse. This is a source of dissatisfaction for medical personnel, and they must also be protected. I would also like to address some other issues. I often have to go to the Ministry of Health to solve the problems of my district. I must point out that I have almost always solved these problems with the Ministry's employees. There are issues that the Ministry is in a position to resolve. Here's an example. Fapes have no right to issue death certificates. When someone, his family, dies in a village to bury him, they have to hang from village to village, go to town. This problem must be solved in some way. In rural councils, where there are three or more rural areas, a doctor or a nurse needs a bicycle to travel from one village to another. But that's not the point. Mainly, honourable national MPs, where do you get the money for medicine? I'm short. So where do you get the money for medicine? Today, when you go around the county, you see that our voters, the citizens of Ukraine, are standing at each savings bank all day long. To get their 50 dollars, there are 200 or more overnights at the savings bank for a few days. They're sick! These people get nervous and talk to doctors. They must be treated. Who's to blame? Let them pay from their pockets those who are guilty of being held close to the register. We can't provide coal to the population. People get sick again, they get nervous. Who's to blame? Let these people pay for the money to go to our Ministry of Health. Prices for utilities. What are these prices today, and what quality of these services? It also pisses off our people, people get sick again because they're freezing. It's someone's fault again. And schools, kindergartens. The Soviet authorities provided their citizens with a job, a salary, a pension, free medical treatment, and 15 copies of bread. Now in small towns instead of one funeral home, there are now 25 of them in large cities, where there were five funeral homes! Who is to blame? Of course not the Soviet Authority, not the Communist Party! I open the Constitution: Article 49 of the Constitution guarantees free treatment. [[I want the audience to know, my constituents.]] And you and I, or maybe the majority that was formed today, should be responsible for the failure to comply with article 49 of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u86	Baburin, Communist faction. Behind him is Anatoly Frost, also a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u87	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues and guests! The issue under consideration today is archival. By analysing the budget in this respect as if it were a healthy Zaporozhye area, it could be said that funding for health care seemed to have increased from 99 to 133 bracelets. However, if you look at the structure of this increase, wages have increased from 50 per cent to 70 per cent, and more in the countryside, and only 9 per cent and 4 per cent for medicine and food, respectively. But as we've been told here, we have 3,1 bracelets in one bunk space. What quality of medical care might this be? However, despite budget constraints, the problem of insulins, vaccines and the provision of medicines for tuberculosis patients has largely been addressed in the field. Unfortunately, other programmes this year are almost unfunded from the budget and local budgets do not provide for money. There are dozens of complaints from patients of poor supply of chemotherapy drugs, cardiostimulators, hearing aids, endoproteases and other essentials. How everyone expected our rural hospitals to be retrofitted! Such financing for health care will not improve the quality of health care, even if we change the Minister every day. In fact, eight people have changed in eight years. What do voters and health workers expect from us today? First. Increases in health care, primarily for medical care. That is why I support my fellow speakers here and the Ministry of Health. And you can find the money, they do. And the first half of the audit by the Court of Auditors showed that we have an estimated budget surplus of 1 billion grevens. The Attorney General's Office initiated a criminal case. People are dying of drug shortages, and we have too much money. Second. All health-care funds must be concentrated in one hand, in the Ministry of Health. Then it'll be easier to check, and you might as well ask. Third. If we allowed the medical community to provide a number of paid services, the Tax Code should also be amended. The Ministry of Health and Minfin must review the costs of outpatient treatment. Today, in Zaporozhye region, 220,000 people need 212 million bracelets and the entire budget is 202 million bracelets. But in addition, internal reserves must be sought. It is therefore not the total closure of hospitals, but the rational use of hospitals. The idea of a family doctor and the solution to the issue of transport security were therefore to be taken into account. And transport can be used domestically, such as our Tauri. Once again, I would like to emphasize that without funding, we will not solve the problems. I propose to the Ministry of Health that it be considered insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u88	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Behind him is the national deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u89	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 83, Zaporezki region]] Dear Chairman! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues! The Ministry of Health, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is indeed pursuing a consistent policy to increase funding for medical needs. And we see that in the budget discussion, most of the members of the Supreme Council understand that and make every effort to ensure that the sector is financed at the right level, but as we see from the statements of our colleagues, it is financed today not enough. It must be said that the Ministry of Health is now operating, as is the Ministry of Emergency Situations, in a state of emergency. And to avoid being loud, you can give a lot of examples that all of us, and especially MPs, have after working in the districts. In my district alone, almost every hospital needs an ambulance today. Today, there is a need to save a children’s hospital in the city of Tokmak. The number of beds is decreasing. There's also a need for quick help from Molochan and Botiyev hospitals in the Priazov region and so on. The city of Tokmak of Zaporozhye area now ranks first in the area of tuberculosis, but there is no quality X - ray in the hospital, there is no respiratory apparatus in the emergency room. Many other health problems have now come to light. There are many criticisms at the address of the Ministry of Health, focusing on what is not done, done, or done. I'll tell you that material and technical security is being implemented today to the extent possible. For example, for the first time in the last two years in 2000-2001, 240 million dollars have been allocated to health care, and some 180 million dollars have been earned in the current year, but that is not enough. Many of the programs that we now have in the field of health care, which seem to be about 20 percent, are financed by 45 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent. Perhaps it is necessary for the Ministry of Health, along with the Ministry of Finance, to inform us, the deputies, how it finances health care for the day, and then the picture would be understandable. Indeed, the Ministry of Health is making a great deal of efforts to provide hospitals and vehicles, and the medical equipment that is being produced in Ukraine today in our businesses. But today's debt is about 7 or 8 million dollars. Clearly, businesses no longer provide the Ministry of Health with the same equipment, and they are waiting for these programs to be funded. I think there is much that can be done with the support of the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u90	National deputy Shevchuk. Following him is the national MP, Shevchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The faction of the People's Democratic Party believes that this important issue is being addressed in a timely manner, as the state budget is now being prepared for the following year. And to our conviction, the results of Government Day should be reflected both in the decisions of the budget committee and in our joint decisions on the state budget for the following year. But according to the faction, considering the state of health in the state as a ministerial report is a simplified and narrowed approach. My colleague Oleg Belarus of the Fatherland faction worked for a long time in the United States. So he said that only 10 percent of the federal government there affected the health of the nation. Obviously, in Ukraine too, this indicator is not significantly different. So I think it would be more interesting to look at another 90 percent, or to look at the so - called intersectoral approach to the health of the nation. So first of all, I would like to remind my colleagues that as early as 1992, the Supreme Council of Second Collegiate Council adopted an extremely important document — the Basics of Health Law. It's working until now. It lays down social and financial provisions for the sector. Until now, however, these important positions have not been properly implemented. In addition, the document states that the President of the State, in his annual letter to Parliament, reports on the state of health of the population of his State. It seems to us that this procedure should be filled with content, since this annual, regular, planned analysis and correction of health - care executives would be an extremely important step, and not only in the days of the government could we address this issue. With regard to the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers has developed an important document, the Interbranch Program "Health of the Nation". All you have to do is expect it to be done in places. I can't help but touch on the individual comments that have been made regarding the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, the solicitation policy. On these important issues, a more professional approach is needed, especially when the Court of Auditors concludes that the use of funds is not rational, when centralized funds are spent on district, rural, and lower - level hospitals. To think that this is a breach of the budget process is simply unprofessional. I don't think we should press charges. Dear National Deputies! I can honestly say that every year more than a thousand of your phone calls come to the Ministry's address -- that's four or five phone calls a day at work. There's competition between them. All of you ask that you prefer your acquaintances, family members, voters in one way or another, thus depriving others. We can now produce, indeed, a balanced approach to the health of the nation, to the problem of financing the sector, taking into account the corresponding proposals in the state budget. And I urge you to do this process because before the election, we all talked about 5, 4 percent of GDP for health care, and after the election, we forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Time's up. Maybe if you don't mind, we'll continue our work for 15 minutes and we'll finish our consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] . The factions did not agree, I suggested, we did not support, Alexander Alexandrovich. They told the people who signed up. National Deputy Shevchenko, Ukrainian Agrarians. He's followed by a national MP, Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u93	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[electoral district 39, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national deputies, members of the government, are invited! The question that is being considered today is very important, for the health of the nation is the future of the state. According to experts from the World Health Organization, health - related factors account for only 8 to 10 percent of the medical population, and 90 percent of them are environmental, environmental, standard of living, nutrition, harmful habits, and so on. The state, medicine, and man himself are responsible for human health. In recent times, however, the health of the population has deteriorated considerably, especially in industrial areas such as Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsky, Zaporezsky, and others. The high mortality rate in these areas, especially at working age, has led to a change in life expectancy of 58 years on average. That is why medicine in the health of the nation today should play a major role. A positive contribution to the development of the health sector in recent years has been the development of a series of legislative acts, intensive work on the establishment of a health regulatory framework, as noted in the minister’s report. The Dnipropetrov region has experience in organizing the work of institutions in this field to ensure human constitutional rights for health. But there is no need to stop. Spending the population on medical services and medicines is almost like public health funding in general, as evidenced by numerous studies. So my proposal, and I'm sure most of the audience will agree with me, is that in the 2003 health spending formula, which only takes into account the sex-age structures of the population, we need to include population health indicators and the ecological situation of the region. An estimate of health expenditure for the Dnipropetrov region for 2003 in accordance with the 2003 budget code for Ukraine, taking into account the dependency on the sex structure of the population, has led to a reduction of 9.8 million dollars in expenditure, which is the necessary cost for the acquisition of medicines, an improvement in the material technical base of medical facilities. Even though they're not enough to build a rehabilitation facility in the mining city of Prvotravensk, for the acquisition of new X-ray equipment, for the provision of ambulances in the electoral district of 39, which I have the honour to present. It must be taken into account that the decline in the availability of rural health care has resulted in fewer people seeking medical care and not receiving appropriate treatment. So funding remains a major problem today. As a result of the chronic lack of funds, not only does the material base of the sector decline, but it also undermines the moral and ethical foundations of a doctor's profession. Our medicine is a serious illness that needs immediate help. So blame the Ministry, probably more than the minister and the employees always work with the deputies. To make medicine available is to solve the question of the wages of the medical profession. So it turns out we're paying for medicine three times as well as we know how expensive. The first time we count taxes, the second is we buy drugs, the third is for testing and treatment. All of this gives reason for people who are not indifferent to the national health system to view the situation as catastrophic. That is why I propose to the Ministry of Health, along with the Supreme Council, to develop and implement a system guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine for the provision of free primary health care from the State budget, by providing the necessary medicines, to equip the primary health care system with a further transfer to the local level, as provided for in the Budget Code. Our agrarian committee, especially the village social development subcommittee, believes that providing rural facilities with qualified medical personnel is one of the main problems. So for the Ministry, the main problems are prevention and treatment of tuberculosis, Sugar Diabetes, Demographics, and adoption of insurance laws, child rights, patient, health worker. It is also disturbing to see a number of laws, regulations, and regulations that distinguish health institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u94	People's MP Migovich. He's followed by a national MP, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u95	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Affairs, National Minorities and International Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues! The preceding speakers gave convincing examples of the striking difference between the materials we received from the government and the real situation we face in health - care settings each day. Especially the harmful effects are evident in our region. The Soviet system in Zakarpat had a branched medical care system. There's not much left of her today. There's only 69 hospitals in operation, the number of beds has dropped by 4,000, and the midwifery points are barely breathing, and so many patients just don't go to hospitals anymore, because they're directly or indirectly demanding three-digit sums. According to the main medical services, the Zakartat region has 15-20 seats in the country. It has deteriorated dramatically since natural disasters, political experiments, and human resources, which are still going on here. All of this, combined with the economic crisis, contributes to a negative socio-demographic change: reduced birth rate, life expectancy, increased mortality. And we have a decline in natural growth and total population. Migration, including skilled medical personnel, is steadily increasing. The overall disease in the country has nearly doubled over the last 12 years. Some 60,000 people are treated for serious diseases. The poor existence of medical institutions will not save the life - threatening medicine that everyone hopes for today. First of all, it is necessary to set a standard of health care for health workers, as stated here, for average wage in industry, to regulate the State-guaranteed standard of health care, to regulate, minimize, and monitor the pay of services. Introduce computer monitoring of the health of the population. It is differentiated to distribute state assimilations into this sector, taking into account depressing territories, ecological disaster zones, mountain habitats, and so forth. In particular, I propose to leave two items on the list for the following year: a cardiological center in Uzhgrad and a surgical corps of a children’s district hospital, which are long - term buildings. They've got a million and a half dollars this year, but they haven't received a penny yet. In general, it is not a matter of eroding the health system, partial measures, or pseudo-innovation, but of radical measures to resuscitate it, of ensuring the citizens ’ constitutional rights to free medical care. We Communists believe that this requires a new system of power, a political course, a desire, and the will of the government. The draft decision on this issue suggests that we work hard to take into account what our electorate expects of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u96	National MP Simonenko will be followed by a national MP, Mother. And we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u97	The Communist faction. We Communists do not for the first time raise the issue of the need to improve the health care of our population. That free medicine, which was proud of all Ukrainian citizens, was different from today’s, with a budget of ten times as much a year as it is now available for maintenance. Today, it has been brought to a pitiful state and has in fact become the most expensive field of human activity. And the authorities work in the pocket of the oligarchs and serve criminal structures. Under the terms of privatization, we have virtually destroyed and no pharmaceuticals, drugs, and tools. In the background of pervasive poverty, nearly 55 percent of citizens refuse medical care because of lack of funds and thus are doomed to extinction. The question is, what priorities can the Cabinet of Ministers talk about today if the lack of access to health care is the main problem? In order to answer these and many other questions, we need to consider with you to make the right decisions in the main question: What is the state of society today? First. During the years of so-called market reforms, there has been a sharp increase - in one and a half times - of disease, of population mortality. Each year more than 730,000 people die in the country, almost 800,000 suffer from tuberculosis, 800,000 chronic alcoholics, tens of thousands of drug addicts, and millions of other severely ill people fill this terrible list daily. It's different. Because of the shortage of funds for antibiotics and other drugs, hundreds of thousands of citizens die from pneumonia and flu, oncosa, and common colds. Third. Social diseases have returned to the country, which our people forgot 30 to 40 years ago. Since 2001 there has been an epidemic of tuberculosis in Ukraine. One person dies of this disease every hour. Fourth. Ukraine ranks first in Europe at the rate of the spread of AIDS. In some areas of Ukraine, the epidemic threshold for AIDS is three or four times higher, and in the last five years, the number of HIV infections in Ukraine has increased almost 20 times more, threatening not only the national security of the country but also the epidemic security of the entire European continent. Death rates from cardiovascular diseases and child mortality in Ukraine are twice as high as those in the European Union. No one will ever take us there. The number of hospitals in Ukraine declined from 3.9 thousand in 1990 to 3.2 thousand in 2001, and the number of hospital beds decreased by a third during that period. It's a tragic situation in the village today, and that's what we've been talking about. The priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers can be discussed if the 2003 State Budget project reduces the government’s health funding by nearly 250 million dollars. At the same time, the funding of the Ministry of Defence, the power structures, is increasing by almost 1 billion. Our previous decisions are not implemented. There are many examples, but I would like to emphasize once again that the main reason for this is that we should tell the people of Ukraine the truth that in today's governing regime, including in the field of medicine, as in other social matters, the country will never reach the level of 1990, and most citizens must forget about protecting their health and social protection by the state. Listen to our proposals, how to increase the income part of the budget, we've referred them to the budget committee. In our view, the way to heal society, to heal every citizen is to change the political and economic course, to replace the corrupt system of power, to replace the bankrupt president. And we urge citizens today not to be indifferent to the problem, including health care, and October 12th to come out and condemn this regime in those actions that will take place in the areas, including Kiev in the European Square at 2 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u98	National MP, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u99	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the constituency "For the One Ukraine!"]] I'm speaking from the faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine and from those manufacturers of medical equipment that are in Ukraine that have not yet been destroyed. But it wasn't because of the reconstruction, it was because we talked all the time about production here in the Supreme Council. Today it is called for disobedience, but no one has said how to increase the budget and what to do to make the budget what it is. [[B in m in s a l in]] I listened to you very carefully. The medical equipment budget is 117 million. Why can't we use 117 million? Because the financial and banking system is so established today, we can't get any credit. The managers of 90 percent of the banks here, in this room. We need to see how we can make the budget that even the government today provides to at least execute it. And when the money comes at the end of the year, it will be used to buy completely different, imported equipment, because industry can only work year after year and gradually. We have every opportunity today, in Ukraine, to solve this. But this is what the Supreme Council needs to put here: if there is budgetary funding, it has to use bank loans without mortgages on those who are there. And we've passed such laws that it's impossible to take a bank loan today, and so much interest on that loan and with so many mortgages that it's impossible to use it. So today, when discussing health issues in the Supreme Council, one thing we should remember is that we can say everything that is bad government, bad Ministry of Health, but above all find ways to do, take advantage of even the opportunities that we have today. I can proudly say that for the first time in recent years, hundreds of devices have been released by our industry, and we have engineering achievements that can be envied abroad. We need to find ways to make use of these opportunities, and I urge you to think today about the legislative provision of banks and support for Ukrainian medical production. And the Ministry of Health, I think, should take into account those observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 15 minutes we've taken, we've already used 20 minutes. To summarize from the Cabinet of Ministers, please give the word Seminomist. And from the profile committee, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u101	Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the critical and meaningful conversation that has taken place today. Indeed, the area of health is not a sector but a general socio-economic issue. So at this very angle, I think we should write all our decisions and plan all our future work. The other one. The extra material that's been distributed is not a report on achievements, as they say, a substantial benefit, these are the kind of reference materials that help you get a better perspective. Including, I'd like to say the same thing about tuberculosis. It says: 25 million have been allocated, and unfortunately, Mikola Efraemovich is 0.4 million, and so on. Of course, today we need to talk about the lack of funding. But it's fair and it's next. Although there is a current underfunding but compared to last year's absolute figures, this is also shown in tables that are larger. Let's say that on a day like this last year, 3.3 billion were allocated, and this year it's 3.6 billion. The programs were 102 million, today 160 million. But I understand the previous speaker when we're planning, let's say, medical equipment, other things, how many questions the electorate is asking about medical techniques and ambulances, we really need to work even more together. I'd like to make a point on that. Today we realize that even approaches such as the health insurance system, the development of the medical industry, the development of diagnostics are a complex set of scientific, industrial, economic and social issues. Therefore, efficiency depends only on the joint work of the government and the parliament. There's no such thing as miracles. If we claim to be European today, and today only a little more than a hundred dollars per inhabitant, this is 10-20 times less than in Europe. So, along with systemic decisions, new legislation, we must also take care of the more dynamic economic development of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u102	Mikolo Efraemovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u103	Your Honor is presiding! Dear members of the government! Dear National Deputies! I would like to take a second look at what really is extremely important funding, without it in medicine, in health care, there is little that can be done. But I can say with full responsibility that if such a state of health is preserved and there is no reform, even if the entire state budget is allocated, it will fail and there will be no major changes. Here the national deputies said that a thousand appeals a year came from the national deputies to the Ministry. Why are these references? But especially because of the lack of effectiveness of health care. Look at these figures: 500 family doctors a year, and it takes 33,000 -- it takes 62 years. If there is no family doctor who determines how and where to direct the patient, no insurance will work. Look at one narrow-profile surgeon today, 48-50 operations per year, that's two operations per month. Would that be an expert? It's one doing 300-400 operations and the other doing nothing. Take a look at this. It was said that 10 percent depends on medicine, and the rest is not on medicine, it's about socio-economic conditions, it's about how people live their lives. Yes, please tell me the ideology of the way of life that the Prime Minister or the Ministry should give? I think it's the Ministry. The committee worked with the draft new budget and agreed to increase funding for health care. But at the same time, 90 percent will go to the wages and maintenance of medical facilities. There's not enough medicine. That is, as long as there are no major reforms, there will be no changes in the health system.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet delivered 19 national deputies who have signed up. Many of them insisted, including the national deputies of Shershun, Franceschuk, Alexander Alexander Moroz. But we're running out of time. I propose that we now complete our consideration of the matter, and that the materials of those national MPs who have not spoken, please send them to the secretariat, in general, and we will assign them to provide relevant expanded information on the Government Day of this issue, which is applicable to all and which everyone is looking after, in order to bring the position of national deputies to the general public, has been published in the Voice of Ukraine. I think that the emotion with which the national MPs spoke, especially the national MP of Hinzburg, understood because this problem concerns every person, every family. This question today can be referred to the primary problems of national security, Ukraine’s future. And as far as this is concerned, it will be quite obvious and such a further conclusion that the declaration of the importance of this sphere is far from related to the level of practical activity of the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authorities, which are directly involved. There's a lot of statistics going on. According to this, the constitution does not look at a clear strategic line. What can and should we do today, and what should we do tomorrow? Serious work is needed by draft regulations, which are widely applied. I would like to ask, honourable national deputies, that you will support me in this, that there will be fewer political evaluations, and that there will be practical solutions that will help solve or address these important problems. When it comes to making decisions. In accordance with the Rules, we will be determined on the day of the vote. I would only ask the committee to seriously elaborate those draft regulations and make one integrated document that fits the realities of today. A break of 30 minutes is announced. We'll continue our work at 1:00. [[After a break]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u105	I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the session room, and we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, the issue is: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's implementation of State policy on the state of reform of Ukraine's oil and gas complex, its impact on the socio-economic development of the state and the use of legislation in this area. The committee proposes this order of action. Policy: for the report - 20 minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter - 15 minutes, for the co-report - 15 minutes, for the answer to the question to the co-rapporteur - 10 minutes, for the discussion - 10 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. If there's no objection, 20 minutes for the report. Is there no objection? The answers to the questions are five minutes. Is there no objection? The report is 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Questions and answers for the co-rapporteur are 10 minutes. And half an hour for discussion. Is there no objection? Roger that. So we're working until we do our deal. In the session room, 284 national deputies are now registered, as shown on my computer. So we can work. You don't have to register. Honorary colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Hajduk Vitaliy Anatoliyovich. The first Vice-Prime Minister of Dubina Oleg Viktorovich attended the debate. Please, Vitalia Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u106	Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The reliability of the work and the steady development of the fuel and energy complex in Ukraine depends largely on the state of the oil and gas complex, which is defined mainly by the state of development of its main components: oil and gas mining, oil and oil transport. After the collapse of the USSR, the Ukrainian oil and gas sector, under conditions of relatively low supply of its own primary energy resources -- oil and gas and critical dependence on their supply -- required accelerated reform to ensure national security and create conditions for the continued social economic development of the state. In order to ensure structural reconstruction of the oil and gas industry, the President of Ukraine's decree to reform Ukraine's oil and gas complex established an organizational and regulatory regulation of the sector. Today, the regulatory framework that regulates the activities of companies in the oil and gas complex is largely designed. These are Ukraine's oil and gas laws, pipeline transport, Ukraine's National Oil and Gas Programme by 2010, Ukraine's Carbon Resources Development Program of the Black and Asian Seas sector, and a number of other legal instruments of the Cabinet of Ministers. In order to contribute to the structural reconstruction of the oil and gas industry, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers established the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine and approved a list of companies whose state share in the statutory funds went to the statutory fund of the new company. The founder of the company is the state in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main directions of the production activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine are the search, exploration of oil and gas crops, extraction of natural gas, oil and gas condensate, processing of gas condensate, supply of natural and compressed gas, provision of transport services. In accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Regulation, 1173 on the separation of the functions of extraction and transport, storage and implementation of natural gas, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine has been created by the children of Naftogaz Ukraine, which produce gas, transport gas and gas. [[D.C. Crushing]] [[DC Ukratransgaz.]] [[D.C. "Gaz Ukraine"]] The NAC Naftogaz Fund of Ukraine has been transferred 50 percent of the shares of the Open Stock Exchange Company Ukrnafta, which provides almost 80 percent of its own oil and condensate production. Today, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is one of the largest operators in Ukraine. Ukraine's State Budget Act 2002 stipulates that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine will provide almost 16 percent of its income. The company's creation has enabled a policy aimed at ensuring the interests of the state in the oil and gas sector, and allows social stability in society to be ensured by maintaining a fixed level of consumer prices for natural gas for the social sphere and by allowing for transparent market relations, solving the problem of diversification of energy sources, organising interstate energy supply routes. The reform of the oil and gas sector has resulted in a reliable, unbreakable supply of oil and gas to Ukraine, which is a key issue in ensuring Ukraine’s economic security and one of the most important factors that shape the material foundations of our country’s independent economic policies. In order to sustain Ukraine's economy, it is essential to ensure the maximum possible level of production of hydrocarbons from its own deposits, which today accounts for about 18 billion cubic metres of gas and 4 million tons of oil with condensate, which provides 23 percent of the demand for Ukrainian gas and 12 percent for oil. The tasks identified by the National Oil and Gas Programme of Ukraine by 2010 are expected to increase production in Ukraine to 5.4 million tons of oil and 24.5 billion cubic metres of gas by 2010. The 2001 program indicators are made from oil and condensate and gas production by 103.6 percent and 101.7 percent respectively. The increase in oil and gas reserves has also been achieved by 131 percent overall. These figures are expected to be implemented in 2002. Without a significant increase in geological exploration to ensure the growth of new hydrocarbon stocks, it is possible not only to increase oil and gas production but also to ensure its stability. Since 1991, there has been a sharp decline in the volume of geological exploration and a corresponding increase in carbon stocks. And only since 1998 has Ukraine begun to increase the volume of exploration drilling and the increase in hydrocarbon stocks. In the last four years, 19 genealogies have been discovered by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, and in the first quarter of 2002, two more crops have been found to support stable oil and gas production. The discovery of genealogies on the Ukrainian Black Sea and Azov Sea shelf is of particular importance. The Caribbean Development Programme of the Black and Asian Black Seas sector provides for an increase in gas and oil production through the development of resources in the southern region. The continuation of the pace of implementation of the above-mentioned programme will enable the production of hydrocarbon products to be increased and thus not only to provide for the Crimean Autonomous Republic of Ukraine but also to place gas in other regions of Ukraine. The National Oil and Gas Programme of Ukraine by 2010 is working to increase the production of hydrocarbons by strategically defining the diversification of sources and routes of energy imports and the use of Ukraine's transit capabilities in the transport of oil and gas. As a result of the objective external and subjective internal causes of Ukraine’s transit transport of oil and gas, there has been significant losses. A monopoly on Russian gas transit was lost, about 10 per cent of Russian export gas went through Belarus, a trans-European gas pipeline "Blue Stream" was built, a project of 58-64 billion cubic metres of gas and gas flow through Poland and Slovakia was developed, the first thread of non-compressor stations of the "Jamal-West Europe" pipeline was introduced in 2001, where Ukraine lost 14 billion cubic metres of gas in 2001 and 18 billion in 2002. With the launch of the first line of Blue Stream, Ukraine will lose 5 billion cubic metres of gas in the Balkans and another 16 billion with the launch of compressor stations. To ensure the loading of Ukraine's gas transport system, the government must seek new resources and the ability to transport medium-Asian gas to Europe under an agreement with Russia. Ukraine’s gas transport system, which is one of the largest in the world, ensures both the transit of Russian gas for export and its supply to domestic consumers. The system’s capacity at the borders of Ukraine is about 290 billion cubic metres of gas per year and 175 billion at the exit. Ukraine’s gas transport system is an important component of Europe’s international transport system and is now functioning reliably, implementing contractual obligations for transiting Russian natural gas, ensuring the economic needs of Ukraine. There is an increase in demand for natural gas. In Europe's energy supply, the share of gas imports is expected to increase from 40 per cent to 67 per cent in 2020 compared to 2000. It should be noted that almost 90 percent of Russian gas is supplied to Europe through Ukraine. As a result of payment of Russian gas transit services, Ukraine receives 26 billion cubic metres per year, which is 40-42 percent of the total annual need. However, the efficiency of the gas transport system may be higher. Ukraine's main gas transport capacity was created back in the '70s and '80s. In order to maintain the gas transport system in its proper technical condition, Ukraine is implementing a program for the reconstruction, maintenance, expansion and planning of the GTS. Between 1999 and 2001, gasification of Ukrainian population sites was carried out, and pipelines were built to 47 population sites 706 kilometres long, and gas networks 726 kilometres wide. According to the Naftogaz program, Ukraine needs to be built at the expense of budget expenditure by 2005 by 1.6 thousand kilometers of pipelines. The program requires government capital investments of 506 million dollars. Over the past three years, 30 gas-fired generators have been reconstructed to replace morally and physically outdated engines into domestic production engines that match the world’s standard. Work is being done to reconstruct the linear part of the main gas pipelines, to repair the modern accounting system. All of these measures are aimed at increasing the reliability of Ukraine’s gas transport system and increasing its capacity in reducing the energy efficiency of gas transport. A joint Ukrainian-Russian-Turkish enterprise Gaztransite is working to expand the transit possibilities of the Ukrainian gas transport system. The first phase of the joint project is to increase the transit of Russian gas towards Turkey and Greece from 7 billion cubic metres per year to 14 billion. The stability of the gas system is ensured by the underground gas storage network, which consists of 13 underground gas reservoirs with a total active capacity of more than 34 billion cubic metres [34 billion cubic meters] of natural gas. The efforts of the President of Ukraine reached an agreement on the supply of Turkmen natural gas to Ukraine. This has created an inefficient gas balance in Ukraine for all categories of consumers: 26 billion cubic metres of transit, 34 billion cubic metres of Turkmen gas, and 18 billion self-sustainment. This has a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the state and allows us to hope for a successful autumn-winter maximum of 2002-2003. Ukraine’s gas transport system needs additional funds for reconstruction, modernization and further development. However, the oil - gas complex in today’s conditions cannot provide full funding for these works. According to a joint statement by President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Vladimir Putin on cooperation in the gas field, the government has worked to develop an inter-government Ukrainian-Russian agreement on strategic cooperation in the gas sector, which foresees: development of a common balance and transit of natural gas for the duration of the agreement; construction, reconstruction, operation of gas pipelines, underground gas storage and other gas infrastructure; provision of service services; development of joint gas transport projects through the territory of foreign-market States, including through the involvement of third-country companies; preparation and application of regulatory documents that regulate the operation of gas transport through the territory of foreign markets, including through the development of gas pipelines; and the development of gas pipelines through the development of gas pipelines; and the development of gas pipelines through the development of gas pipelines; and the development of gas pipeline projects. The terms of the consortium are intended to ensure further development of Ukraine's gas pipeline system, the unbreakable transit of natural gas to European countries in Ukraine, the increase in its volume, the proper technical state of the gas transport system, and the technical reconstruction at European standards. The International Consortium for the Management and Development of the Gas Transport System should ensure the integration of the Ukrainian gas transport system into Europe, which is worthy of Ukraine's place in the European energy supply system, our State's participation in the implementation of the new energy strategy of the European Union. The important task of oil-gas companies is to ensure the transport of crude oil to and transit into Western European countries. Thanks to the geographical and geopolitical position of Ukraine, through which crude oil is transported from Central Asian and Priscian nations, the issue of transit transport of crude oil is a priority. Ukraine has all the prerequisites necessary to strengthen its authority as a transit State. In order to ensure the stable functioning of Ukraine's oil transport system, its further development, Ukraine's participation in international co-operation, the government has decided to establish a VAT "Ukrattransnafta" based on state-owned oil pipelines "The Friends" and "The Transnistrian motorway pipelines", with 100 per cent of shares transferred to the NAC statute fund "Naftogaz Ukraine". The president and the government of Ukraine are tasked with integrating the main oil pipelines into European energy space. The concept of public policy in the field of supply and transit of crude oil, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of April 5, 2002, is one of the strategic directions of ensuring the effective functioning of the Ukrainian part of the Euro-Asian oil corridor and at the same time of ensuring an integrated approach to the integration of the "Friend" oil pipelines, Adria, and finding opportunities to increase the transport of crude oil through other transit routes across Ukraine. Although the main oil highways have a significant operating time with a near-deprecated depreciation term, they are now functioning in a stable manner, providing for all contractual obligations for the transport of oil to oil refineries and the transit of oil for export supplies. The main focus of the development of the state's oil transport systems is the construction of the Euro-Asian oil transport corridor, which is part of the South and Odessa Brody oil pipeline. The introduction of a first queue of 9 million tons allows to diversify the supply of oil to Ukraine’s oil refineries. In the coming years, the second line of the project is planned, the continuation of the pipeline to Gdansk, which will allow the transit of Caspian oil to Poland, Germany and other Western European countries. The further development of the Euro-Asian oil transport corridor towards Central Europe and the North European market across Poland depends on the effectiveness of balanced oil transit policy, negotiation process organisation, tariff policy, participation in oil companies, etc. Ukraine has a powerful oil industry capable of processing 52 million tons of oil per year, which can not only fully meet its own needs for oil products, but also provide the significant foreign exchange revenues needed to meet many economic and social needs of the State. The reform of the oil industry by involving domestic oil companies of strategic oil - owners has greatly increased the processing of raw materials. In 2000, oil processing was 8.5 million tons, and in 2001 - 15.4, about 17 million tons of oil is expected to be processed in 2002. The production capacity of oil companies has increased accordingly and the production of oil products has increased. The need for social production in oil and oil materials is almost entirely provided by the oil products of their own production. For the first time in Ukraine, the resource base allowed the full supply of oil producers. There's been a reconstruction, a modernization of oil-processing companies, which will increase the depth of crude oil processing to 75 to 80 percent. With the aim of efficient use of carbon-based raw materials, creating transparent conditions for the functioning of the oil and oil market in Ukraine, the government has decided to develop the concept of creating a vertically integrated company from the production and processing of Ukrainian oil. At the same time, it is important to note that there are a number of serious problems in the oil - gas sector, without which the sector will not be fully capable of carrying out its tasks. The main problems in the industry are low gas prices, a considerable tax burden that practically paralyses the business’s financial activities and prevents them from developing and re-arming them. Today the state regulates prices for natural gas for consumers in the social sphere, the population, budgetary organizations, and utilities, which have remained unchanged since 1999. The 2000-2002 increase in the transport and supply of natural gas tariffs is due to a reduction in the cost of natural gas in the structure of the approved NCRE natural gas prices for the population and budgetary organizations and institutions. As a result of the oil - gas industry, it is necessary to determine the purchase price of natural gas for its own production, thus reducing the volume of financing of production and capital programs for the production of natural gas. With regard to tariffs for natural gas and oil transit through Ukraine, according to generally accepted principles and standards of international law, energy charters corresponding to intergovernmental agreements on harmonized policies in the area of gas and oil transit are defined by contract between the host entities. The financial result of the 2003 oil and gas complex is directly dependent on the financial and economic conditions and the legislative base in which its enterprises will operate. In January-September 2002, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine counted 5.78 billion dollars in taxes, congregations, and mandatory payments accounted for 4 billion dollars. All the budgeted accounts for this period have been made solely in monetary form. Debt from payments to the budget for this period is 1.7 billion dollars. Tax liabilities are made by 70 percent. At the same time, the rate of payment of taxes increased by 4.4 percent compared to the same period last year. The main reasons for the debt owed to the value added tax are the cancellation of the cash flow method of the VAT liability. Consumers’ debts for natural gas, used this year, amount to 682,9 million dollars on October 1, 2002. The introduction since 2002 of a 20 percent tax on added value for natural gas transactions imported into Ukraine has led to additional tax liabilities. Such legislative changes have in fact led to a sharp increase in debt. Additional NAC Naftogaz Ukrainian VAT liabilities amount to 550 million dollars. The main reason for the increase in the income tax for the period in question is the existing order of taxation on the income of transactions from the supply of Turkmen natural gas to the territory of Ukraine. Since gas production predates the production of goods, the company immediately expands its income tax base. The same has been true of the cost of transiting natural gas through Ukraine. In addition, the company has to release free of charge the natural gas to the consumer category by trade name for more than 100 million dollars a year without actual compensation. In order to improve the calculation of the oil-gas complex with the State budget, it is necessary to expedite the adoption of the following bills: the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 11 of the Added Cost Tax Act; the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukraine Act on Added Cost Tax. [[relative to the application of the cash method of determining the tax base]] [[concerning the establishment of a zero VAT rate for natural gas sales operations to the population and utility]] In order to solve the problem of taxation of barter transactions for the purposes of the Turkmen natural gas, it is necessary to expedite the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Business Income Taxation. The government’s understanding and support for the government’s efforts to reform the oil - gas sector make it possible to expect the strategy chosen. The government will continue to take steps to develop the oil and gas sector, improve efficiency and function of the development of the oil and gas transport systems, and approve Ukraine as a transit state, which will allow for a more effective impact on the positive and socio-economic development of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u107	Report completed. Do you have any written questions, Vitaly Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u108	Yes. We answered these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u109	Let's now record the questions directly from the session room. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. People's deputy Shirko, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u110	Head of the committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[electoral district 153, Ravenna region]] Please pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u111	John the Rabbit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u112	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Mr. Minister! The next day, the Cabinet of Ministers is forcing us to follow the rules of the cartel game, namely, the game of smug fool. I understand that if you were to give us a contract, not a framework agreement, but a contract where there are clear parameters, then you could look at something. We got a framework agreement. True, there are a few points that I would like to comment on. What does "consortium form on parity principles" mean when the order of formation and the size of the statutory capital of the consortium is defined in the documents? So you're going to agree on the size of statutory capital, but the contract already has parity terms, that's 50 times 50, not 51, for example, 49. That's the first one. The other one. Call me at least one agreement within the European Union, which would be made for 30 years, at a time when there are economically-based terms, is 12-13 years, that is, when the economic cycle is being carried out. How did the Cabinet of Ministers manage such a bond agreement on terms and statutory capital?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u113	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for asking. First. As far as parity is concerned. This definitely means that 50 times 50, because the legal treatment of the term "parity" is "on equal terms." The other one. With regard to this covenant, its development. Under the agreements between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and the Gazprom Rat, there are two elements to the operation of this enterprise. The first is pre-investment, which should define all technical and economic justifications, and all this work should be completed by 30 August 2003 and presented by the parties. The second is an investment, where it's expected that there will be defined stakes, deposits that will be funded. The first can only be parity where subjects form a statutory fund for these jobs. As for the second part of your question. Unfortunately, the gas market does not operate within 12 or 13 years. If you know, there's a term -- 25 to 30 years and years from now, because it's a spot market. And from the point of view of continuing to work for the future, it's at its core for 25 to 30 years, and the spot market covers only peak loads. And so the term for the gas market is normal world practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u114	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u115	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] Dear Vitaly Anatolyevich! I have two questions for you. First. The technical condition of this highway. We're talking a lot today. Someone from a political point of view, someone from an economic point of view, but I am interested in the technical state of this highway, because we know when it was introduced and how it was exploited. What does this concept provide for today in terms of renewal, repair and normalization of the highway? Second. Today we have about 17 billion cubic meters of our own gas production. But we know that in Ukraine today you can get 34-36 billion cubic metres of gas. What are your projections for further development of own gas production, and what will be the dynamics of this development and increase in production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u116	Thank you. It's about the technical condition. So far, the system's working well, but we've had situations this year that have caused concern about the technical state of the pipelines. [[These are emergency situations.]] The pipes were put together 30 years ago, while in an aggressive environment. It is expected that by August 30, 2003, a joint assessment of the gas transport network's technical status will be carried out to make business plans and determine what investments it needs to ensure a reliable supply of the volume that is now possible to increase the capacity in the future. As for our own production, I told you in the report that the NAC Development Program "Naftogaz Ukraine" predicts an increase in output to 24.5 billion cubic meters. Regrettably, some 68 billion cubic feet [68 billion cu m] of gas were produced by Ukraine. We have exhausted ancestry, unfortunately we have neither Yamala nor Stokman. And so the pace of their own production will be slow and will not be able to provide Ukraine with its own energy resources in the quantities it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u117	National Deputy Kosinov, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u118	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[electoral district 170, Kharkiv region]] NDP faction. Dear Vitaly Anatolyevich! You said that amendments to the Value Added Tax Act should be expedited with regard to the zero rate of sales of natural gas for large transit for the population, consumer utilities and the technology needs of NAKA itself. Can you explain, please, what is involved in this change that will result in the gas industry? That's the first one. Second. Your attitude towards an illegal compulsory payment, such as a rent, and what will happen to the rent if a gas consortium is established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u119	Thank you. As for the zero VAT rate. I reported that in just eight months of this year, the debt for natural gas consumed is 652 million dollars, of which 65 percent of the debt goes to thermal utility companies. [[These are boilers that use gas for production, heating.]] And also about 140 million dollars is population debt. Tax liabilities in the introduction of VAT arise from the first transaction. So each released NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" cubic meter of gas carries a liability to pay taxes to the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" company before it gets paid for it. So given that we have regulated prices in this sector, we have the opportunity to reduce the tax burden in this sector. I'm sorry, second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u120	About the rent. How will this work on consortia?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u121	As far as the rent is concerned. We have to take into account that we're going to be working on a tech-economic basis for almost a year. Indeed, the consortium will be created and operated according to Ukrainian legislation and the authorities will be located in the city of Kiev. [[it's in the contract.]] We're going to need to translate the concept of "rental pay" into consolidated taxes that operate in Ukraine because Ukrainian legislation does not provide for a tax like a salary. We are already working on this issue in order to introduce to the Supreme Council an appropriate draft law that would allow the concept to be transformed according to the current tax legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u122	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u123	Member of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Please pass the word to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u124	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u125	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Vitalia Anatoliyovich, I thought you were going to say more about consortia to make it clear, because that's what's bothering a lot of people today. You've been talking about this problem for exactly one minute. I want you to explain to us why we didn't get this framework agreement today? Please tell me, if the cost of this highway is 300 billion, what part of Russia today and the structure of this fraction? Give us the answer and finally all the listeners. That's the first one. The other one. Why did we destroy the state-owned gas trading system today and pass it on to practically-shared Obgas? As a result, the state and the execution are lost. Is it a conscious policy of plundering the state, or is it a mistake that you want to correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u126	Regarding the subject of the reports. I reported on this issue, which was formulated in the Supreme Council Order on Government Day. As for the matter of the agreement, if necessary, I can comment more on the content of this agreement. But as far as I know, it's being sent to Parliament and should be handed over to the people's deputies. If I talk about the destruction of the trader gas supply system, I want to tell you that the population of Ukraine consumes a volume that is virtually equal to its own gas production, about 18 billion cubic meters. About 20 billion cubic meters are consumed by thermal energy, which is provided at a fixed price at the expense of the gas that we receive as a transit fee. Next. NAK Naftogaz Ukraine has an appropriate obligation under the agreement with Turkmenistan to pay for natural gas supplied from Turkmenistan for 34 billion cubic metres. Because the population, the thermal power supply is self-sustained, because NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is the only company that has a VAT liability for the rent not only for transit but also for its own production, the natural gas supply system through the fraud system today is purposeful and economically sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Obviously, there is a need to inform you that the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on strategic cooperation in the gas sector is given to you. Polit National Deputy, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u128	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I ask that you pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u129	Yuri Solomatin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u130	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction, the Committee on Environmental Policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear Vitaly Anatolyovich! Please tell me why NAC Naftogaz Ukraine does not brutally pay the congregation for geological exploration. The total debt -- about 700 million dollars -- is about 690 million NAC's debt to Naftogaz Ukraine? A national geological service will suffer in carrying out its tasks. And the second question. Please state, in different ways, the use of nadr, which is more appropriate in terms of improving the efficiency of the use of licenses, concessions or concessions, in accordance with the main requirement contained in article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely: "Nadra is an object of property of the Ukrainian people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u131	Regarding the payment of NAC Naftogaz to the congregation for geological exploration and experience, it has been shown that, over the past three years, the use of other structures other than NAC Naftogazu has not increased Ukraine's exploration of natural gas reserves and, accordingly, increased the balance sheet conditions. Therefore, the issue is not really settled with regard to the payment to these funds and the use of these NAC Naftogaz funds in Ukraine. But the situation related to the balance sheet — 19 crops discovered in the past years and 2 crops this year — shows that the issue of the relationship with the fund needs to be settled. [[What I've told you.]] As to what is more appropriate than what is. World practice shows that the most attractive are concessional conditions for the use of crops, natural resources, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u132	Thank you. Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u133	Dear Vitaly Anatolyovich! Please make a note there, because there will be a lot of questions that I can't answer, but such a quick, superficial review of the contract tells us that it's so raw, that you probably don't have any answers to all the questions. But they do. What does "partite rules" mean if there's a third party? How will profit be distributed? What article of the treaty will ensure free access to the energy markets of the European countries of Ukraine or the preservation of transit status? The contract does not say anything about that. What will be the budget losses, and what is the mechanism for covering these losses after changing the legal status of today’s network? Now, who's going to pay off the debts -- $1.4 billion, which is on NAC Naftogaz Ukraine? Minfin? He'll be on the budget, that is. Is there going to be a ratification? What will be added to the statutory fund of this company is that pipes and equipment under our law are not subject to privatization. How will tariff policies and other things be formed? There are no answers to these questions in the contract. I want to know what to say to the electorate, and for myself first of all, I need to have full clarity about what we are offered here in this agreement, and also with regard to the comments made by Miniust and other structures. The Prime Minister had no right to sign anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I want to say that all of these questions that you've called are in line with articles 3.4 of the Naftogaz-RAO agreement that I said all of these calculations, all of these economic justifications will be done by 30 August 2003. Until now, nothing will happen to the gas transport system, the relationship between RAO Gazprom and NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, will change to the government budget, which is formed for 2003 until there are economic justifications, taking into account the relationship of this consortium with the owner of the gas transport network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! Question time's up for the minister. Thank you, Vitaly Anatolyovich. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Andrew Petrovich Clovis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The fuel complex needs a fundamental reform based on the following fundamental principles. First. Stimulating energy conservation. There has been some progress in the field of energy conservation recently. According to the Government, the energy intensity of GDP fell by almost 10 per cent in 2000-2001, amounting to 0.91 kg of conditional fuel per bracelet. Therefore, there is a realistic prospect of a 12-15 per cent savings in traditional energy resources by 2010. However, today's level is still 3-4 times higher than that of the Central European States. In this regard, I and my committee colleagues have a very reasonable question: why is it that the necessary financial resources are not allocated to public energy-saving programmes, including the oil and gas complex? In the State Budget Act 2003, the Government provides almost 14 times less than the required funds for budget programmes, intersectoral energy conservation activities. The conclusion is itself that energy-saving programmes are not more than a declaration of intent, but that their implementation is an essential disregard for approved priorities. Second. The most difficult to implement is the principle of diversification of sources of imported energy. Energy sector statistics show a significant dependence on imports. In 1996-2001, the volume of imported gas exceeded its own production by 3-4 times, accounting for 71-83 per cent of total domestic consumption. In the oil market, the recovery of oil refineries in 2001 had an impact on the ratio of imported and extracted oil, which had increased more than twice as high as in 2000. The narrow list of importing countries - Russia, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, the almost constant level of gas and oil production in 1991-2001 and the forecast of slow growth in 2002-2010 - is unlikely to increase significantly in the internal market. Third. Ensuring energy independence. The rational use of its own energy is of sufficient importance, especially in the context of the need to optimize the structure of primary energy consumed. In 2001, the primary fuel consumption structure in Ukraine accounted for about 45 per cent of the gas, and in Russia, 52 per cent. Agree that this ratio is extremely dangerous for Ukraine's economy, which is incomparable to Russia's smaller reserves and volume of gas production. In 2001, coal consumption was 30 per cent in Ukraine and primary fuel consumption in the Czech Republic was 51 per cent in Poland, 66 per cent in Poland. However, Ukrainian coal reserves are four times the same in the Czech Republic and three times in Poland. Support for the optimal balance of primary energy consumption is critical in the medium and long term. The focus on imported energy resources could have unpredictable, negative consequences. Consequently, the ongoing results of the reform of the oil and gas complex cannot fully meet the prospects for national energy and the economy as a whole. The key to the lack of progress in oil and gas reform is the separation and inefficient coordination of numerous management, research and economic structures. In Ukraine's oil and gas complex, we are seeing the worst possible scenario. Note, colleagues, that the overall management of the oil and gas complex is carried out by the Mintopenergo. The geological exploration and control of nedrama is within the management of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the development and production of new drilling complexes is done by Minprompolitics, and most of the scientific developments are carried out by academic structures and so on. It is clear that a significant scale and a large number of diverse and interrelated issues in the oil and gas complex require a clear organization of cooperation among all stakeholders in this system. At present, there is no qualitative interaction on both strategic and operational issues. This confirms the existence of the following problems. The development of oil and gas fields, in particular the Azov and Black Sea shelf areas, has not been adequately addressed. The industrial operation of the Odessa-Boda pipeline is delayed. The regulatory and legislative framework of the oil and gas complex has not been improved. Now with regard to the state of the oil and gas complex. The current technical and financial and economic state of the oil and gas complex, as already stated in the report of the distinguished Vitalia Anatolevich, is far from ideal. On this basis, our Committee considered the following proposals to be sufficiently sound and deserving of budgetary support in 2003 for the executive branch. First. Set the rent for natural gas for its own production of 9 bracelets per thousand cubes. Second. Set an oil rent of 17 bracelets per thousand cubes. Set before 1 January 2004 a zero VAT rate for the sale of natural gas of its own production and transit through Ukraine for the population, municipal consumers, technological needs and consumers of the budget area. We are prepared to give objective consideration and support to solutions that will make a real improvement in the oil and gas complex. As a result, the following conclusions and proposals can be made. First. The process of reforming the oil and gas complex should be planned and implemented in accordance with the fundamental principles of energy sector reform and the national economy as a whole. A single long-term energy strategy, which should be an integral and integral part of our State's economic development strategy, should serve as a tool for harmonising the interrelationships between national energy sectors. Second. The organization of the public policy system in the oil and gas complex needs a serious review. It is necessary to ensure that all components of this system work as a well-established mechanism, subject to common objectives. Third. The assessment of the oil and gas complex makes it clear that its progress cannot be unrealistic for project executions and endless repetitions of oscillating data on problems persistently unresolved in the background of a dozen legislation on the successful development of the oil and gas complex. There is a need for a breakthrough in technologies, tools for reforming the oil and gas complex. The old recipes, unfortunately, are no longer working. The time has come not only to consolidate efforts but also to establish a united, agreed position. Dear colleagues! By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 11 July 2002 on the Government's Day in October 2002, our Committee was requested to consolidate the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies and the contribution of the Cabinet of Ministers to the draft resolution on the issues under discussion. The Committee has not received proposals from respected colleagues. I'm afraid you didn't make any suggestions to the committee. We therefore believe in the Committee that it will be useful to continue to work on the issues raised so that, in view of today's discussion and the results of the Government's work on the development strategy for the fuel complex, the positions of all stakeholders can be harmonized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the report has been completed. Please sign up for the question to the co-rapporteur, please. Ten minutes to ask. And since he saved the report, we can take 15 minutes to ask questions. Please turn on the board. National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u138	Thank you. The city of Zaporozhye, the faction of SDPU. Dear Andrew Petrovich! I had a question about the breakthrough, and I remembered those last words of yours. One of the active mechanisms for the development of the energy complex was and remains a strategy or complex energy conservation program. Has your committee analyzed why this complex energy saving program is not funded year after year? Because it is this sector that can be a major component of our nation's energy complex development strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. We have examined, considered several times at a meeting of the Committee, especially when the draft budget for 2003 on the fuel and energy complex has been discussed. We have considered the proposals of the Energy Savings Committee, selected those that should be implemented in the first place, and proposed that 98 million be invested in the 2003 budget for energy savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u140	People's MP Rudzkowski, POW faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u141	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory general constituency, SCI]] The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter! Please tell us that we did not understand the minister, would the Supreme Council ratify this treaty, which was signed by two governments? And the second question. How do you comment on the conclusion of the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance presented to the Cabinet of Ministers that the creation of a consortium is inappropriate? And the statement on this point was the Deputy Minister of Finance of Baulin, which would lead to the loss of the budget, after which he was rushed out of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u142	When the treaty is fully filled with concreteness, we believe that it will have to be ratified through the Supreme Council. That's the answer to the first question. With regard to the second question, as the Minister of Fuel and Energy has already said, a feasibility study of the consortium will be conducted by the end of August 2003. And there, I think, will be a full reflection of all the points that are of interest not only to the committee, not only to all the deputies, but also to our constituents as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u143	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u144	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to ask Mr. Clovis, he's such a smart man, in Ukrainian, it would be much better to hear the answers. You know, we're talking about reforming our gas transport industry. In Yulia, Timoshenko, you know, there are enormously deep developments in this regard. I'd like you to meet them, maybe you can use them. And now such questions. First. Who now owns six oil refineries in Ukraine? The other one. Who now sets the prices for gasoline? And the third. If we also sell the gas transport system, what will then be left in Ukraine’s own hands? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u145	Thank you for the questions. If there are normal, real proposals for reforming Ukraine's oil and gas complex, please make them. [[of which, and relating to the gas consortium]] The Government Order, which was voted on in July 2002, invited the members of the Supreme Council to submit their proposals to the Committee. We are prepared to consider all proposals together with the deputies. We are still prepared to consider all your suggestions in the Committee, not too late. Now for the refineries. I now find it difficult to provide specific information on all refineries. I believe that this issue can be addressed to the Housing Fund and considered separately. Regarding the sale of the gas transport system. That's not what this is about. You, distinguished colleagues, have been given the text of the agreement that was signed yesterday. There's no talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u146	National Deputy Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u147	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The national movement of Ukraine. "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter! Can you confirm that the signing of a known agreement between the two governments will result in losses in Ukraine’s budget of about 6 billion dollars each year? Not 6 million, not 6,000, but about 6 billion dollars! That's 10 percent of the budget. Can it be considered that this was a political step by the government when the government of one state donated 6 billion dollars to the government of another State at the celebration of the President’s birthday? And can we not view this as the beginning of an era when the sale of Ukrainian businesses gradually turns into the embezzlement of Ukrainian businesses, which are at the brink of conflict with the Criminal Code, with criminal responsibility? [[often at low prices]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. As already stated in the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, a feasibility study on the feasibility of establishing the consortium will be prepared by 30 August 2003. No budget losses, of course, can be spoken of. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, when there's a feasibility study, then we'll see whether there's gonna be budget losses or not. It's about a gift. I'll tell you this: the President of Russia is a respected man, and we all have to congratulate him on his anniversary for 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u149	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u150	Please pass the word to my colleague, Hinsburg, Olga Petrovney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u151	Olga Hinsburg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u152	The Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Petrovich! I am troubled by the question I have asked at all levels but have failed to ask Vitalia Anatoleevich this question. I understand that reform of the system is going on. I understand that Putin's birthday is important. But I'm concerned about the fate of the Conotope armament factory, which is closer to my district. For several years now, I can't understand why the production of this factory can't be taken by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. [[I've been a deputy for three years.]] At first, there were quality problems at the plant. Now there's quality. Then they said, win the tender. The tender's already won. They're not taking the factory's products, they're bringing it from Azerbaijan, one that's lame, it's not broken, it's from Chechnya. I can't understand why today you can't support your native producer who works in Ukraine and puts money into the government's budget, helps solve social problems, pays people's wages? [[Maybe you'll answer me.]] I very much ask you to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. The Committee stood, stood and would stand in the interest of the domestic producer. And I'll tell you this: the fate of the labor community is not a private matter, it's a human destiny. Let us therefore, as the leader of the NAC, Naftegaz Ukraine, is present after the meeting, we will return to this issue separately and resolve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u154	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u155	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. I have such questions. What do you think will be the loss to Ukraine as a result of the creation of a gas consortium next year? Ukraine is expected to receive 3.3 billion dollars for transporting Russian gas this year. It's clear that once a consortium is created, if it's done quickly, not all of that money will come into our budget. Do you have any data? That's the first one. And the second. The gas transport consortium is based on Ukrainian ownership. Does the problem of transporting and providing gas to Europe concern only Ukraine? Why does this apply only to our property?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u156	Thank you for the questions. As you already know, a framework agreement on cooperation in the gas sector was signed yesterday. The framework agreement reflects the following issues: joint exploration of gas deposits both within Ukraine and within Russia; construction of new pipelines through Ukraine; establishment of joint gas trade balances with third countries; and investment for the reconstruction of both sides'gas transport system. Therefore, until there is a full feasibility study of the need to create a gas transport consortium, we will not be able to talk to you about anything in particular. [[This will be done by the end of September 2003]] With regard to budget losses or gains. I'd like to postpone this conversation. Now we can just talk about the usefulness of creating a consortium, but I'm used to numbers. Here, when the figures are available, then we can report them specifically to the committee, analyze them and say they will be lost or gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u157	National MP Taran, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u158	Julia Timoshenko's block. This was the question asked by MP Rudzkowski about the ratification of the agreement. I am aware that this agreement has been effective since the date of signature, although there are intergovernmental agreements that must be approved in Parliament. [[If someone doesn't know]] Obviously this happened because, as you say, Putin is a "respectable man," which raised that question between two people: and you couldn't bear the birthday of a "respectable man." [[You respect me. I respect you.]] It's a gift. But I'm talking about something else. On Saturday there was a meeting of the Cabinet. At this meeting, there were no seven ministers in Kabmin, and many were present against the treaty. As chairman of the committee, were you invited to this meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers? If you were there, were those who opposed the arguments? What Can You Answer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. I have not been present at this meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u160	The National Deputy of Kosovo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u161	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. I'd like to address you as a member of the Supreme Council, as a parliamentarian. I am not surprised by the Minister's report, for he reported this question in our daily order. He talked about the state of affairs in the gas transport system, its impact on the social policy of the state, and so on. But you're a deputy! Don't you realize that this is a completely different issue after yesterday's signing of this agreement?Oh, my God! It's totally different! And what the Minister says and what you're saying doesn't matter at all, because the question has to be considered in another aspect. You're saying that calculations will be made that you're used to trusting numbers. But here the MPs who have experience know what a slippery state policy is when it starts with that, and it ends with all sorts of other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u162	Thank you. My position, as a deputy, as a person, as a citizen of Ukraine, is such. We MPs, like all civil servants, must stand first and foremost in protecting the economic interests of our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u163	Thank you, Andrey Petrovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u165	Let's get to the debate. Time is up, dear colleagues, and we agreed to take a half hour. Please show the list of those who signed up from the rostrum. People's MP Konovaluk. Please. We agreed for half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u166	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[62 constituency, Donetsk Region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Oleg Viktorovich! Dear colleagues! Analysing vague perspectives has always been a futile thing to do. It seems, however, that today it is the destiny of the people’s deputies to talk about reforming Ukraine’s oil - gas complex, such as the creation of an oil - gas consortium. There is no alternative to reforming the gas transport system. In view of the extremely high energy efficiency of the main sectors of the domestic industry and the critical role of the oil - gas industries, the industry is destined to play an avant-garde role in market transformations. Unfortunately, the problems that have accumulated over the years are too many. The numbers speak for themselves. Ukraine holds third place in the world after consumption of gas, while its own production covers only 23 percent of the demand, so our economy depends heavily on the volume, stability, and timeliness of external supplies. At the same time, the State must provide financial support to the sector and create conditions for investment in its development. The gas transport system is really a unique set of gas races and shelters that generate billions of dollars a year to the state, and how this system will work further, we can't care. How much does the creation of a gas transport consortium correspond to the interests of our state; will it contribute to economic growth and political stability; will Ukraine be a legal home for the consortium; who on behalf of Ukraine will enter the consortium and become a full operator? I believe that the government will answer these questions and that the position of the government will be state. We also have to realize that for the state budget, the income from this sector is the largest and stable economy, and this allows, above all, socio-economic issues to be addressed. If the reform of this sector of the economy is balanced and scientifically justified, the possibilities for replenishing the state budget will double. We had to support proposals to reduce tax burden and reduce rents in order to provide conditions for the effective development of the oil and gas complex. Of course, when we consider the matter, we need to leave the national economic interests first and foremost. This has to be arranged. Regrettably, the press and individual politicians, whose statements are of a rather subjective and general nature, have been very actively involved in the discussion of the project. Why are analysts, leading economists, the interministerial working group silent? I don't think we should remind you, colleagues, that the further fate of the Russian-Ukrainian gas deal will be decided in these walls. Ratification should be based solely on deep analysis and clear perspectives. Finally, I want to say that reform of the oil and gas sector is one of the most important components of the state-building process, and therefore the discussion of the related issues should be accompanied by economic justification and be politically balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u167	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. He will be followed by the national deputy of Goodima.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, members of the government! I'd like to draw attention to a few moments. I enjoyed the presentation by the head of the Clivov Committee. He gave a really patriotic speech, and that's why he has two outcomes: either he writes his own statement of exit from the majority, or most will exclude it, because he is indeed a patriot of Ukraine. Now, about what to do and how to do. Dear Vitaly Anatolyovich, what you said really doesn't matter, because the agreement is a reform that has crossed everything out. Now the Naftogaz of Ukraine doesn't solve anything. Why? Read article 9 of this covenant: You will no longer be able to decide for yourself, and you will be told what to do. So Ukraine has lost its ability to decide for itself. And what diversification there will be of that gas! And the southern pipeline of Odessa-Broda, it doesn't matter anymore, because it doesn't suit Russia's interests. Russia is doing the right thing, it is defending its interests, and there is no one in Ukraine to defend them. This problem is very serious today. Regarding what Vitaly Anatolyovich said. He said that the main way to solve all of the problems is to raise prices. It seemed to me that Oleg Viktorovich Dubina was somewhat dissatisfied with this. Because that's not the problem. Prices can also be raised, but the payability of the population and industry must be increased! And to do that, as Kluev said, you have to look at everything in the complex. And that's the problem of energy conservation. By the way, it's all about Julia Timoshenko's work. I held meetings all over Ukraine, we gathered scientists, we consulted on how to solve the problem of energy conservation in Ukraine. That's the way it is. But the problem is that we have everything bought abroad. [[That's where the manufacturers sit, they know.]] Even Naftogaz Ukraine once issued an order not to buy Ukrainian counters because they are better than Westerns and bribes are not given to officials for them. So the problem today is how to save our production, how to solve the problem in a complex way. But this agreement doesn't allow you to decide anything. In addition, there is another interesting, special article 3. According to the newspapers, Timoshenko’s main accusation was that she had created a consortium with an English firm. So if Piscoon is consistent, he should either drop the charges against Timoshenko entirely, or demand immediate arrest of Kuchma and Kinach, because they create a consortium under the same scheme as Julia Timoshenko. That's the problem! Well, there's nothing else I can say, it is. So, your honor, this is all written from a philosophical point of view correctly: Ukraine will really keep the budget coming, but at what level will it keep? You can cut them 10 times, but you can save them. The problem is that Ukraine loses more than it can win. We don't need Jamal, we have the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf. Why are we not developing our own crops, using our potential, the mental potential of 80 percent of the oil and gas projectors of the former Union who live in Ukraine? So there is a problem today. We see that this treaty is a betrayal of national interests. So today, the main issue is not to adopt some small laws, but to immediately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, support your initiative and consider the bill on the principles of internal and external politics and the bill on the principles of Ukraine's national interests. [[I'm done.]] First, we need to base the numbers and only then sign the agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u169	People's MP Gudima. Dear colleagues! As chairman, I would just like to correct Mikhail Antonovich and say that there are no Nepariots in Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! We need to talk today mainly about the state policy of reforming the oil and gas complex, and just a little bit about the consortium, whose idea of creating the reverse, about the absence of any state policy when signing the agreement. When it comes to public policy for reforming the oil and gas complex, it's set up, as you know, in the government's reform programme for prosperity, for the first time in eleven years, by Parliament. The Supreme Council, where all are truly patriots, as a result of the parliamentary hearings "Energy Policy and Energy Strategy", recommended that the government approve an energy strategy and submit a bill on a national energy programme. It was in these documents that the main objectives of the development of the oil and gas complex -- the significant increase in oil and gas production, the diversification of oil and gas sources in Ukraine, the integration of oil and gas transport systems into the European Union energy sector. None of the tasks assigned by the Supreme Council have been accomplished by the government today. So we can say that neither the government nor we today have a state programme not only for reforming the oil and gas complex, but also for the state energy programme in general. And now what we're talking about and what everyone wants to hear about the consortium. I think it would be very interesting to ask, what does the famous Ostap Bender think of the consortium? He'd probably say, "I don't know what a consortium is, but first the money, then the chairs." What do we have? The agreement was signed yesterday, and the economic justification of the signed agreement is due by August of the following year. The problems with the consortium have, unfortunately, turned from problems of political, economic, and strategic to problems of comedy. And it won't work without Ostap Bender. You have delegated me through the committee to an interdisciplinary working group, and I can report to you today that by working for three months in that interdisciplinary task force, I've been asking those questions that you asked today. We didn't get any answers to any of those questions at the interdisciplinary working group meeting. And everyone here today can argue that there is no concept of using the Ukrainian gas transport system, there is no economic justification, there is no answer to the question where we're going. If we're going to the European Union, we should have our gas transport system integrate not into the Eurasian economy through Russia, which refuses to liberalize the gas market, which is a natural monopoly and wants even more monopolies. And if so, there was no reason to sign the agreement. [[What's more, the inter-ministerial working group didn't make any recommendations; it heard the problems, confirmed that those problems -- which is the conclusion of the professional ministries -- are not allowed to sign any agreements.]] Still, the deal is signed. In my draft decision, I propose to find out the terms of the agreement, but the government’s work on reforming the oil and gas complex is not satisfactory and to create a temporary commission of inquiry to find out why, without the conclusion of the experts, the government went to sign an agreement that, to my conviction, could cause irreparable damage to Ukraine. So I want to wish you and yourself that the fate of this agreement is the fate of the referendum that we recently held.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u171	National Deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine". He will be followed by a national deputy, Lukyanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u172	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm not a gasman, so I'm not going to touch details that only experts can talk about. I am a citizen of our country, and therefore I believe that all Ukrainian citizens will soon be forced to evaluate the arrangements signed yesterday in Kishenev. I personally appreciate yesterday's signing of the treaty as a national disgrace. When Prime Minister Kinach speaks of the two greatest gains, that the agreement is based on Ukrainian law, and that the authorities of the consortium will be here, we, in Kiev, I laugh. [[That's the first win.]] [[That's our pipe.]] [[That's the second prize.]] I'm sorry about our country, because it's the result of half a year's government work. This result was ensured by the creation of a climate of unprecedented secrecy around the matter. The fact that none of us have any documents today confirms this conclusion. The fact that the government did not want to discuss this issue today again confirms this conclusion. [[I definitely didn't want to.]] The fact that the head of the profiling committee, in my opinion, does not have all the information, once again confirms this conclusion. If the information does not belong to the members of the profiling committee, what about our citizens? We cannot be statisticians when selling a gas transport system, perhaps the only liquid object left to the Ukrainian people. We cannot be mere accomplices. The supplier's interests are secured by the contract. [[supplier - Russian Federation]] The question is: Where is the consumer? Where is the Federal Republic of Germany? Where is she? Did someone throw her out in the process for nothing? How so? There is a supplier, there is a country through which transit is carried out, but consumers are not participating in the signing of the agreement. The fact that yesterday, the press secretary of the German commercial structure seems to have responded favorably to the signing of the agreement doesn't mean that it's an official German position, we don't know that position, it's also hiding. The fact that there was no third party when the agreement was signed yesterday speaks for itself. In addition, questions are raised as to why commercial structures should fill in the specific content of the document signed yesterday in Chisinau? [[Gazprom, Russian structure, and Naftogaz Ukraine, our structure]] Are they fully representing the interests of the State or not? What, the government will no longer influence the situation? How can we appreciate that? There is no answer, but the deal is already signed. And the last. The political conclusions that come out of the signing of this agreement are just terrible. By the way, the Russian Independent newspaper wrote on October 4th: "In the opinion of some experts, Kuchma's becoming an active lobbyist of Russian interests is due to the fact that the Ukrainian President now needs to hold fast at any cost and to facilitate the advancement of his successor for the next term of office." [[in the original language]] No questions! But why is the Ukrainian gas transport system here? And in general, I believe that this agreement is subject to ratification, and every MP has to weigh everything before pressing a button. If Parliament ratifys this agreement, we should declare our divorce and the early elections, because after that, such a parliament is not necessary for the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u173	National MP Lukyanenko. He will be followed by a national deputy of Yavorowski. I'm asking you to follow the rules. We have only 14 minutes to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! In my time as ambassador of Ukraine, I worked in Canada. In talks with the Polish ambassador and then in negotiations between our and the Polish governments, the Polish side proposed to organize an additional oil supply line to Ukraine from the north. I think we all know that the state can't be independent unless it diversifys the sources of oil and gas supply. In this direction, I worked hard at the time. Canadian scientists have developed proposals to improve Ukraine’s supply of oil. [[mainly - Ukraine]] Among them is a horizontal way of extracting oil. Knowing our conditions well, they offered to introduce this method into our Carpathians. I sent two sets of documents from the embassy to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science and Technology. I didn't get any answers. The same Canadians developed a method of producing coal gasoline. He sent two sets of papers there. I didn't get any answers. They have developed a way of extracting gas from plants, from the garbage of everything that reduces the need for gasoline by 20 percent. There are no answers to the documents sent. Thus, our government has done nothing to secure Ukraine with oil and gas. Ukraine had six refineries. Ukraine has now lost these factories, and they have been handed over to another state. Now that Ukraine does not determine the price of gasoline, it is determined by someone else. We are gradually losing economic sovereignty. Loss of economic sovereignty results in loss of political sovereignty. What we're offered is a betrayal of Ukrainian economic interests. [[create a consortium from the gas transport system]] If we give up this system, then I don't know what else we have. The argument that we heard on TV from Kuchma, which is set out here in this document, does not withstand any criticism at all. For example, Kuchma said that management of the gas transport system would improve. Which means that Ukrainians don't have enough of their brains, and we need to go to other states, Russia, to help us manage our gas transport system, right? Next. It is said that the creation of this consortium will allow the cost of upgrading the gas transport system. Where will the money come from?Oh, my God! Where, when Ukraine hands over part of this system to Russia, will we be able to manage only one third of it? So where do we get the money? So we have to answer the question of how much money we will lose from creating this consortium, not how much will then be returned to Ukraine by those who will take from our pocket to upgrade our systems! Finally, I would like to say that this problem is an extremely important political problem, and so I would like people to come to the European square on Saturday, October 12, 14th, where the members of the Supreme Council will consult our citizens and tell us what is going on now and what Kuchma presents to the President of Russia. Was it not a price for him to run away from Ukraine if needed, that he would be provided with a good hand under Moscow? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u175	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine." He will be followed by a national MP, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u176	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Yavorowski and Zholkovsky districts of Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear fellow parliamentarians! Believe me, before I prepare for this speech, I wanted to speak with arithmetical, so to speak, lectures, because I would like to speak to those who say that on this subject, we really need to speak with numbers in their hands. However, it has been possible to obtain long - known, banal figures that Ukraine’s gas transport system is nearly 14,000 kilometers long, that of almost 300 of our native Ukrainian wells that were to be developed over the course of the year, less than half have been developed in eight months; of 90 percent of all Russian gas that is being transported through this pipeline. The banal numbers we already know. No number under this document was given to us by the government. I want to tell you a little episode. One of the major Ukrainian businessmen made such an offer to President Kuchma. [[very decent businessmen, not oligarchs; he, by the way, is a national deputy now]] Please, I am investing my personal capital in the development of all the wells that are in Ukraine, and in two or three years, Ukraine will be fully secured by its gas. The president said, "Okay, come back in two or three days, we'll figure it out." The businessman came in a few days later, and the president said, "Why didn't you tell me that I was going to take away a piece of bread from thousands of people sitting around a gas pipe?".. That's the end of the project. Next. I have to talk about politics again, because there is no figure in this document. There is one argument: everything is done to provide Russian gas to Western countries on a regular basis. I'm sorry, do you really need to create a consortium for that? What, though, did this not happen in previous years? There's another great detail: the confidentiality of information. No information without the consent of one of the parties will we have at all. So what are we discussing today? But I'm the one who's most in pain. In all of our Ukrainian government, there was one person who told the truth -- and her heretics were banished. The rest of you stay calm. We ask each other why we live like this. That's the answer: because we sign these documents! In our government, where the entire patriotic elite would sit, there was no more person who would come out and tell the truth: this is fraud, this is a betrayal of Ukraine's interests. So whatever our political views, we have to say it now. Ukraine has already given everything it could. We gave up nuclear weapons, we gave up bombers, we gave up virtually everything. The gas pipeline is the last thing left, and with our participation, if we speak, that will be the last thing left. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u177	National MP Rudzkowski. He will be followed by a national deputy, Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u178	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Yesterday a historic event took place: the second phase of the liquidation of Ukraine’s economic sovereignty, a signed agreement on the creation of a gas transport consortium, began. No government official spoke on the economic basis of the purpose of his creation. The government only entrusted the holding fund with assessing the cost of the gas transport business. The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance have objected to the economic impeccability of the project and possible budget losses. The Deputy Minister of Finance was inadvertent in declaring the loss of the budget and was immediately released. This can be seen as an act of service crime in the interests of the President of Ukraine. The president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, paid for his security in the future, a gas pipe 32,000 miles [32,000 km] long! It's a 13-15 billion-dollar object that gives 8 billion dollars of budget revenue. 16 percent of the budget we need to distribute and approve. As an expert, I'm telling you, National MPs, how the situation is going to move on. In a year, a consortium will be set up, three times the cost of transporting gas through Ukraine, then double the price of European prices, raise the price of gas for the population, and for a company that will be supplied from Russia by a monopoly consortium, then raise the price of gas supply for industrial companies in the chemical industry and metallurgy, the TECs, will be 80 dollars again, and you'll remember the supply of Iteri by 80 dollars. First, there will be lending, then bankruptcy, and the transition of the major national economy that forms the budget into the hands of the Russian capital. I am now speaking for the purpose of not allowing the economic sovereignty of the state to be lost. I got acquainted with a contract for the parallel operation of energy systems. He says that if they don't get gas, they're going to take electricity. If the government of Ukraine signs such a treaty, I propose that we consider the issue of the government's unsatisfactory work in this area, make an appropriate decision so that other governments remember that they will be retired for actions against the interests of the State. Is there a need for reform in the oil and gas complex? Yes, you do. It is necessary to reduce the impact of officials on operators, to create conditions for investment, especially in geological exploration and mining, to ensure the development of an oil - gas system that would enable Ukraine to be energy independent of one supplier — Russia. And the main thing to do is to move to a hundred percent transit fee through the territory of Ukraine of Russian gas by money. This will remove the issue of repairs to the gas transport system and so forth. [[I say to you, First Vice Prime Minister.]] The Russians have a worse gas transport system than the Ukrainians do. They want to get the Ukrainian system into their hands and thus remove their uncompetitive ability to transport compared to Ukraine. So this is a very important question. I ask you, national deputies, to approach it in principle, in violation of the interests of the majority or minority. The interests of the State must be paramount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u179	People's Deputy Stays. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u180	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs. [[Election District 127, Lviv region]] Thank you. Dear National Deputies! In fact, history has the ability to repeat itself twice, the truth twice in the form of a farce, and we are now trying to reenter the same river. Just seven years ago, in October in this room, we were discussing the creation of the Gaztransite joint venture, and the same agreement was signed by then Prime Minister Marchuk, who noted that the statute fund of this Gaztransite included all our gas transport systems including gas shelters, and then the firms valued this amount between $20 billion and $30 billion. People’s deputies made a balanced and reasonable decision seven years ago, putting our gas transport system on a list of sites that are not privatized. Look what we've got now. In fact, we were told that this is an international consortium, but unfortunately, after the talks in Petersburg, three leaders of the states -- Germany, Russia and Ukraine -- this format has been reduced to two heads of state. Accordingly, we need to understand that Germany is now simply taking a waiting position. How are Ukraine’s national interests protected? At first, our prime minister said that we should have 50 plus one share here. That's a good idea. Then we saw in the agreement that there are already parity terms, but not 50 percent, but now it's 34 percent, and 32 percent will be given to the third party. And keep in mind that this third party could be the French, the Italians, the Germans, who have businesses with a huge portion of Russian capital, and Gazprom in particular. So you have to understand where this creeping ideology will lead us. I, as a deputy, would like to say that I am most saddened by the fact that all this is done in secret, and I really need to speak out loud about the fact that there was a political dispute, that the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Sergey Baulin, was released by the President's decree because he was telling the truth. And not our position, but the position of the Ministry of Finance, which is, in fact, we're losing 6 billion direct taxes to the budget, and we're going to have to find another 2 billion to compensate the population for the price of gas. So we have a fact of a new political settlement, and we should speak it out loud to all today. Finally, one more moment. This agreement is now in effect from the moment it is signed. But let's look at the Act in force on International Contracts, where it's written that ratifications are subject to agreements on global economic, economic and technical cooperation. [[Article 7]] This document is subject to ratification, which means that the Supreme Council has to give its consent to take effect, i.e. it cannot take effect at the time of signature. Here is the minister of justice, I think he understands very well that this is simply a violation of Ukrainian legislation. And the last. When I listened to our discussion, I realized that you could try to deceive even the UN inspectors by packing, let's say, if you tried to wrap the parts of the Rings in the boxes of CRAZ, but you couldn't fool 450 people's deputies, that is, the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time has run out. Dear colleagues, we agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking you to give me a chance to say the word. Do we have a deal? Dear colleagues, we still have three national deputies: Kossov, Carmazin, Hare. They insist on the performance. Your point of view? Let's give them one minute to finish this question. Please. The National Deputy of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! The question that we are now considering is surrounded by complete deception. Before the text of the agreement, which was distributed to us, there is an accompanying note to the Supreme Council of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Immediately, it is said that this agreement arose as an agreement from the three presidents' statement: Russia, Ukraine and Germany Where the chancellor of Germany was, it is totally unknown. It goes on to say that this agreement provides for the preservation of revenue to the state budget, but then it's about guarantees of investment for technical reconstruction and modernization of the sector. So tell me, how can funding come into the gas transport budget and at the same time spend money on modernizing this sector? Because it's nonsense, it's a lie. And even if there is a modernization of the industry, there will be something that Olga Hinzburg's colleague has raised. Our domestic manufacturers will not be involved in modernizing these transport arteries, all of which will be imported from the outside, because the money will also be spent from the outside. In the agreement itself, this has already been emphasized, it is the parity of the formation of statutory capital, the administration of Kiev. But it's a complete re-deception. I know Ukrainian politicians who agree with Russian politicians that even the capital of Moscow can be transferred to Kiev to unite these two nations. Yeah, listen, who are you kidding? And last of all, don't take up time with others. On Thursday, Vladimir Mikhailovich, no draft decision of the Supreme Council on the issue under discussion was scheduled. I would still ask that this issue be discussed at the Coordination Council meeting and that this draft decision be proposed for adoption, because even on the issue of the day-to-day -- about the state policy and the reform of the oil and gas complex -- absolutely nothing, no words about the policy itself have been heard in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u183	Please, National Deputy Carmazin. Behind him is the national deputy of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u184	"Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian Multitude People! Once again, you are prepared to rob another 5.7 billion dollars a year. Think about it! I see a bad mood today with members of the government. Let the Chancellor of the Federation care about his interests, about his country, we have to think about our own. We lost ownership and control of all of them from six oil refineries. The Odessa-Brody pipeline stands like an empty pipe, just buried money! And you know it. We're told today, but we can process 53 million tons of oil per year. How much do we have as a strategic partner? A third? We don't even have a third! This is the result of the sale of national interests, including through the arbitration system! It's Jurist's Day. I turn to Mr. Pritika's conscience, to what is left of that conscience, for you have given the last to the Lesser Ripper, Mr. Pritiko! And given in May on Victory Day, let the Ukrainian people know what's going on! We're told, expected. The fool's thinking is getting rich. Nothing is expected of this agreement. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, for your compliance with the Rules today, but I would like to say that if the MP requires any information or the Head of the Supreme Council at the request of the deputy, we, not entirely stupid deputies, have in the past recorded in the Criminal Code article 351 - an obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy. And failure to provide information to a deputy is a criminal offence. I'm asking Piscoon, the Attorney General for the time being, to file a criminal case for not giving us the second part of the deal signed between NAC Naftogaz and Gazprom of the Russian Federation. It was not given to us, the people’s deputies. I consider this a violation of our rights and the rights of our constituents. I continue to point out that I am calling back my vote in favour of Prime Minister Kinah, my 226th vote. Why? Because this is the person who committed treason in accordance with article 111 of the Criminal Code: "State betrayal, that is, an act deliberately committed by a Ukrainian citizen to the detriment of sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability, defence, state, economic or information security of Ukraine: the transition to the side of the enemy. The granting of assistance to a foreign state, a foreign organization or their representatives in carrying out a subversive activity against Ukraine is punishable by deprivation of liberty for a period of ten to fifteen years." I remind those who do not know this and this article, and I will hand this code to Mr. Dubini. I ask you to know for yourself, please, Mr. Kinach, and let them think before they sign anything. This treaty is contrary to the Constitution for reasons discussed, contrary to the national interests of Ukraine, contrary to common sense. I'd like to remind you that our citizens are working in the East of the Russian Federation today, and we could be asking questions about the use of a Russian pipe, Russian oil extraction capabilities, but somehow we don't sign such agreements. We only sign on our property. Thank you, thank you very much. Excuse me, I'll do the math, and now, let me hand over the Criminal Code to the First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u185	Tell them they're collective readings there, they're probably organizing. Please. Member of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u186	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The grease parliamentarians know that the devil always hides in detail. This rule is also fair with regard to international agreements. This is exactly where I encourage you to discuss this agreement. The Cabinet of Ministers has once again given us a deal called "the frame type." That is, a deal where there are no indicators from which we can't judge the nature of the agreements. What do we have to do in this situation? Just one thing: To think that this will actually come out of this agreement. And I want to tell you a few of these things. First. Article 5 of the covenant states that a consortium is formed on parity principles. From here, you can be sure that Russia will seek to implement this principle when determining the size of the statutory capital of the consortium. Is there enough political will in our government to stand up to this harassment and say that these are our gas routes, that this is an enterprise in our territory, and that's why we have to have 51 percent of the shares. I highly doubt the political will of our government that they can endure. The other one. Article 4 states that the creation of the consortium will be carried out by economic structures: Ukrainian Naftogaz Ukraine and Russian Gazprom. So this means that the Cabinet of Ministers has made up completely all the constitutional powers under international agreements, because this is a framework agreement, because there are going to be a lot of treaties that will open up these positions. And the Cabinet of Ministers has already removed, you've even written in this contract, in article 30, that the coordination of the implementation of this agreement, rather than the coordination of the work between these gases, will be carried out by the Ukrainian Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. This would mean protecting not the national interests, but the so-called economics of interstate interests, and that would lead to some group of people building themselves another outhouse somewhere in some offshore. Third. The creation of this consortium under such conditions will limit Ukraine to the possibility of diversified energy supplies. It has already been said that this Ukrainian enterprise, which is the power of this enterprise, these gas highways, is an appropriate filling. How can we provide energy? By no means, dear friends. And they're going to put us back on that gas pipe, they're going to raise prices, and that's really going to be, they're going to raise prices for both the population and our industry, and they're going to destroy our industry permanently, especially the metallurgical, chemical, other heavy industries. Four. The question of economic relevance. Is it economically appropriate for us to do so? What do we have in this covenant? But I can tell you that we will definitely lose our budget. Today, the budget receives 2.5 billion dollars or gas transit wages. If this enterprise is registered according to our legislation in Ukraine, there is no such tax in our legislation. Where would you get the money? It's a land payment. Sorry, we have the only standards for everyone. And that's how we're going to lose. So the bottom line is that our Cabinet of Ministers has once again shown that it's not about national interests, that it's not about the Constitution, it's about the law, it's about the principles of the new Ukrainians to live by concepts. It's all concepts, not legislation. So, honourable national MPs, I urge you to take a closer look at this activity and not approve of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. I'd like to remind you of the question. This is the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers -- the implementation of state policy on the state of reform of Ukraine's oil and gas complex, its impact on the social economic development of the state and the implementation of Ukraine's legislation in this area. So we have every reason to conclude that for various reasons there has not been a general discussion of the problem. And in fact, in large numbers, we're going to discredit the days of the government. Most of the time today, it was a sensitive one, and it is understandable to all, perhaps, why a sensitive one, such as the Consortium Agreement. I think everything should be its own time and place for discussion. However, the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy was trying to get us back to a serious conversation and discussion on the subject. Again, I would like to point out that there was no conversation. Dear colleagues, there was a number of speeches that said that there was no need for information. I want to send you to today's newspaper Voice of Ukraine, where an article published listing statistics characterizing Ukraine's gas transport system. I don't think there's anything secret anymore that wouldn't be obvious. Next, dear colleagues. We need to get the committee to form the questions that we need answers from the Cabinet of Ministers so that when we vote on the ruling, we need comprehensive information. Most importantly, in my opinion, we need to translate the energy of words into the language of specific calculations, into the language of statistics. I'd like to ask the committee to elaborate on the draft decision to involve the people's deputies who have proposals in order to be a complete and comprehensive document, including the proposals made by Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! The question is closed, the decision will be taken in accordance with the Rules on the next Thursday when we have a vote. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all of us to Lawyer’s Day, since we have work to do with the need to create laws, that is, we are all lawyers, and we wish all of us good things. [[It's the national MP Carmazin who ordered it.]] The meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next meeting will take place on October 15, 10 a.m. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u188	Head of the committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[electoral district 157, Ravenna region]] Of course, recent medical developments in Ukraine have seen some disruptions, but they are not such as to share the optimism of the Ministry of Health especially with regard to the development of medicine in rural areas. And it's a little comforting to see that there's an increase in the number of district hospitals, because judging by the region that I'm representing, there's little change in the villages, and they're all made possible by the sponsors. Understandably, a peasant and his moneyless, irregular transportation with medical assistance, would not go to the area. So we think that the establishment of outpatient hospitals in villages with a mandatory daily station is the only right way, checked on individual examples of the villages of the Plains. It is known that the building program is designed, but it is not reflected in the budget. In a separate line of government budget, it is necessary to anticipate the cost of rural medicine, or the village will not see it. At the same time, we need to solve the problem of material, technical and human security for rural outpatients. Statistics show that more than 60 percent of university graduates went to work in the village this year alone. But it's statistics, and in fact, young doctors don't work in the village, because medical schools usually teach urban children who live in cities. The villagers, on the other hand, are financially unable to teach the child as a doctor. And everything remains as usual: according to reports, the doctor went to the village but did not arrive. We believe that we can solve this problem. To do this, we need to create new medical units or branches that already exist in regions with benefits for teaching students from rural areas, provided they return to work in their own village. In the State budget and in the local budgets, it is necessary to provide a separate line of funds for the purchase of the most necessary modern medical equipment. Medical care, especially in critical situations, should be widely available and free of charge. In spite of the Constitution in Ukraine today, it must not be allowed to be virtually dominated by paid medicine. Let it take its course in the fields of medicine, where it is accepted, but it cannot be allowed to squeeze out state medicine, free medicine. This requires the establishment of compulsory state and personal health insurance. A person should have a guaranteed right to medical care and choose where to obtain it. At the same time, it is necessary to exercise proper State control over medical legality so that public clinics do not engage in patient control. That is why a peasant does not go to a doctor even when the end is over, not to mention prevention and testing. For peasants, moneyless things are simply not available. This should also be the national concern number one. It is worth restoring the forgotten practice of getting diagnostic medical teams to the villages, actively carrying out explanatory work with the population, and raising the medical culture of the people. Officially, the annual cost of one person’s health care increased to 133 dollars. I don't know, maybe they've grown somewhere, but in Level, that figure has doubled. If these funds, declared by the minister of health, had provided, say, the city, Raven would have received another city budget and would have dealt with medical problems on his own. A few words about innovation. For example, the Raven City Hospital paid for land privatization, drug licensing, and the accreditation of nearly 50,000 dollars. This means that the patient was deprived of his medicine and his medicine. Today, most hospitals, especially in the village, are being held in the water by humanitarian aid from abroad. But what a challenge it is to clean up such loads or to carry out their certification! The Raven City Hospital, for example, couldn't sweep the humanitarian ambulances for a year and a half. It takes time for the capital to think about it and make it simple and fast. Next. It's about the doctor's salary. In the last two years, it has tripled. This would seem to be wonderful, but the budget does not provide the necessary funds. To avoid debt from the hospital’s salary, they will save on food and medicine for the sick and equipment. The cost actually goes to only 8-10 percent of all the finances. With such approaches, we simply destroy medical institutions, push doctors into battles. The same applies to the adoption of various programs during the calendar year. Let's be honest, let's not put the money in the budget, let's not put it in the budget. And to the end. Let's stop comforting ourselves and people with unwarranted optimism, and work on ensuring that Ukrainian medicine reaches European level as soon as possible. Changes need to be made today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u189	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[constituency 181, Kharkiv region]] Dear colleagues! I'm sure I don't need to convince you of the importance of the issue that we're considering today. It is worth mentioning the problems that people have faced in elections that are being addressed at parliamentary receptions today. Personally, I've been looking at health issues through the Turbot charity fund, which I've been leading for the second year. Today, more than 70 percent of appeals to the fund involve medical treatment, the purchase of medicines. The problem is not limited to those who are socially vulnerable, but especially to the rural population. I'm going to operate on examples from my district and my rural district. Although Kharkiv remains a powerful industrial region, with only a fifth of the population, we are confident that we are dealing with a situation typical of all of Ukraine. The worst health problem in the country is the timely detection and prevention of diseases. First of all, tuberculosis, cancer. This results not only from the poorer material condition of the rural population but also from the limited capacity of rural people to benefit from modern medical advances, rural health facilities are often not just provided with modern diagnostic equipment but also with essential drugs. In view of this, for the first time in the Kharkiv region, a rural health care program has been developed and is being implemented in Ukraine on the basis of family medicine. It opens 132 hospitals, two family medical units, with 155 family doctors. About a third of the rural population is already receiving assistance from these hospitals. In the areas where the family doctor is employed, the number of emergency medical calls, calls to experts in the district and district hospitals has doubled. But here's the display number. Of the 1.2 million dollars spent on ambulatory equipment, one million is included outside the budget. Or another example. Over the past two years, 66 cars have been transferred to rural health facilities in the area. 12 of these were purchased by the Ministry of Industry. Of course, on the one hand, we would not be able to implement these programs without the support of the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, we realize that much more could be done if health care became a national priority. It is vital that the Ministry be a real Ministry of Health. Because where financial and other opportunities are provided, we have examples of effective solutions to problems. For example, through centralized medical supplies purchased by the Ministry of Health at the expense of the budget, TB and diabetes patients in the Kharkiv region receive the necessary drugs. As far as I know, the same is true of most programs that are implemented at both regional and national levels. It's worth mentioning at least a very important program called Reproductive Health, which aims to raise birth rates, or "Children of Ukraine." As they may be, they are carried out in the fields. Kharkivsky, for example, did not receive any money from the budget for their implementation. I could tell you a lot about what is being done, how much equipment, drugs, and so forth is being purchased in this room. But the measure of effectiveness in health care should be the availability of these measures to ensure human health. We all realize that health problems in the country did not arise yesterday. It can be said that they are not effectively solved for objective reasons, such as economic processes. But we will be honest: they will remain sharp, the birth rate will decrease, the mortality of the population will increase as long as social problems, such as health care, are addressed in the rest of the way. I don't want to talk nonsense from this rostrum. But by defining other priorities, by pursuing a political struggle on vital issues, we risk a great deal because our ambitions will be realized with no one and no one. So let us be honest about our responsibilities to those who have chosen us, realizing that the most important thing for them is to be alive and healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u190	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear National Deputies! Your Honor is presiding! The issue raised by the Government’s Day regarding the health situation is quite relevant. During her years of independence, Ukraine lost its leading position in the field. And whatever good reports are made by high - ranking leaders, the crisis is felt on the spot. Lack of quality of service, high prices of medicine, low wages, 70 percent of medical rates, etc. are all symptoms of power sickness. There is nothing to say about the country’s faucets, which are financed by local budgets, and doctors don’t even have pills. While in the district, I was able to communicate with the district medical authorities, and I met a working group of the Calnchy TMO. Their conclusion, like mine, is medicine in a catastrophic state. Lack of funds makes it impossible to maintain a home, to treat children in boarding schools, and in children’s wards. It's not like it's called a hospital support congregation or anything. Most people can’t pay or even go to hospitals at all. The authorities and the Ministry do not implement the Constitutional Court’s decision on free medical care. To confirm my words, I would like to bring to your attention the appeal of the medical deputies of the local councils of the Hersonian region, which is also supported by the Hersonian deputies. "Dear Parliamentarians from Hersonish, National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In March 2002, the constituencies trusted you to present their interests at this level. You went to elections under different political slogans, with different beliefs and views about the nation’s expansion, but most voters were attracted to the orientation of your programs to address the acute social problems, the most painful of which is the protection of the population. The medical community of the area, the health and health authorities are making every effort to implement the provisions of the Constitution, Ukrainian laws, presidential decrees, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on ensuring the proper level of health care for the population and the development of the sector. But the geographic and economic features of the Hersonian region pose objective challenges in solving medical problems. The area's enterprises are in a very difficult situation, and the economy is dominated by the agricultural sector, which suffered significant drought damage this year, which has had a negative impact on the implementation of local budgets. Under the conditions of low population density and the remoteness of most areas, the application of a proportional budgeting centre in the allocation of health - care budgets becomes unobjective, thus ensuring that the amount of budget funding for the sector is paid only for wages and for energy supplies in individual areas. Sectoral programs are virtually impossible because of the lack of extended funding. Working under limited budgetary funding, public health institutions are trying to get out of their emergency needs, including through the provision of paid services to the population. But some of these funds are eliminated from the almost empty pockets of hospitals through taxation. The overall economic situation, social difficulties, have an impact on the health of the population. In recent years, demographics have deteriorated year after year: mortality exceeds almost twice the birth rate, and the population in the region is declining by more than 8.5,000 annually. Children’s mortality, tuberculosis, and cancer rates have reached a dangerous level. The material and technical base of many health facilities, especially in rural areas, has not been updated for many years. Diagnostic and medical equipment is morally and physically outdated and is used for 15-20 years, which has a negative impact on the quality of health care for the population. At the right time, the provision of medical care is affected by the insufficient provision of car transportation to medical clinics and local hospitals, as well as the weariness of the existing car park. Because of the low level of material and technical security, not all institutions in the area have been granted State accreditation. At the district level, immediate solutions require the development of an oncological dispenser, the acquisition of telegammatherapy equipment, a moving fluorographer, the resuscitation of newborns, and the provision of special vehicles to the disaster medical center. The establishment of a family doctor's infirmary is slowing down due to the lack of a proper material and technical base and living conditions for doctors. In 2003, 30 doctors from family medicine will be trained in the area, but there are still problems of equipping jobs with the necessary equipment, estimated at about 50,000 dollars for each infirmary. It is virtually impossible to find this amount in rural budgets. In addition, local authorities need to address the issue of housing and utilities. These and other circumstances have led to the fact that, in 2001 and the first half of 2002, the Hersonian Health Ratings Region placed one of the last places. The social situation of health - care workers remains strained. The basics of Ukrainian legislation on health care in relation to the social situation of health workers are not implemented: wages have not reached the level of average wages in the industry and do not provide a minimum standard of living, do not compensate for utility costs, do not pay for health and work. It is not possible to resolve all these issues at the expense of local budgets. So please pay attention to the health situation in the area and make a contribution to the implementation of measures aimed at improving health care for the population of Hersonian, namely: 1. We ask the government to take immediate action to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers ruling of February 25, 2002 212 on measures to address the socio-economic problems of the Herson region: - the allocation of 18 million dollars in the budget for the completion of the district cancer dispenser launch; - acquisition in 2002 of specialized transport for health facilities in the area; - provide full funding from the state budget for measures aimed at combating tuberculosis according to the national programme. [[the purchase of medicines, medical equipment]] 2. At the expense of the targeted costs, provide equipment according to the requirements of 30 family medical clinics for at least 50,000 dollars per infirmary. 3. When considering the 2003 State budget, maintain the funding arrangements for health facilities, provide for the allocation of funds from the state budget to address the priority health problems that have arisen in Herson’s health. [[at least 40 per cent of the allocated expenditure]] 4. In planning centralized measures for the development of an agro-industry complex, predict the construction and equipping of rural health facilities. 5. Free public health institutions from paying local and state taxes, as well as in the Tax Code. 6. Introduce the development and introduction of new salaries for health - care workers at the average wage level in industry. Seven. To provide in the State budget the costs for the implementation of article 77 of the Ukrainian Law on the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health care for the recovery of health benefits and for the benefit of years." Thank you for your attention. I hope that the officials in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Administration, the Supreme Council will draw attention to the issues raised by members of the various levels of Hersonian and will make real citizens' hopes for improvement in the medical field and the treatment of citizens. LIST OF EQUIPMENT FOR REGIONAL INSTRUMENTS 1. For the oncospancer: 1.1. Gamma therapeutic machine Clotronic - 3.2 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general 1 / 1 What X-ray diagnostics complex Siregraf - 2.6 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of 1 / 1, 3 The completion of the construction of the oncodispancer is 18 million. Total: $23.8 million. 2. For a children's district clinical hospital: 2.1. IVL equipment for adults and children Fisher and Pikel - 212,000 gr., other stamps 4 U.S. - $250,000. 2.2. The incubator is open with a primary resuscitation kit of 5 ed. - $250,000. Total: $712,000. 3. Special vehicles for the Center of Disaster Medicine 2 - $240,000. 4. The mobile fluorograph is 80.5,000 g. Total: $22 million. LIST OF EQUIPMENT FOR REGIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS 1. Ambulance cars Gazel - 20j. - 1.8 million. 2. Diagnostic equipment: 2.1. RADmir's UZI 20 ed. - $1 million. 2.2. Olympus Endoscopes, Pentax 20. - $1 million. 3. IVL for newborn children “Little” 20j. - $1 million. 4. ENG is a Malish porter. - 30 o'clock. - $150,000. 5. Maintenance of a family doctor's infirmary - 30 outpatients - 1.5 million g. 6. Incubators of 20-odd closed-circuit incubators - $800,000. Total: 7 million 250,000 GR.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u191	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[constituency 200, Cherkas region]] Dear colleagues! In our country today, there is no more sinister and acute problem than the provision of health care to the population. The main causes of the current health situation are: insufficient funding, which does not meet the needs of the industry, and poor use of allocated budget resources. For example, in the health care facilities of my district, 200 per day costs 38.5 bracelets. It may not be that small, but more than 80 per cent of this amount is for utilities, energy and wages, and only 1.33 bracelets are spent on food and medicine. [[A glass of beer in the Supreme Council buffet is worth more!]] If you remember the huge loss of electricity in the networks and only 1% reduce it, I am sure that energy savings would be sufficient for the free supply of health facilities. And that's a huge budget. Of course, we can criticize the Government, the Ministry for insufficient funding for this industry, but each of us understands that in the current situation we will not be able to substantially increase the budget for medicine. It is therefore necessary to make more effective use of the possibilities of multi-channel medical financing, without reducing or reducing budgetary funding. I mean, first of all, it is up to us people's deputies to pass the Ukrainian Insurance Act. Even highly developed people do not offer their lives without health insurance, as effective and quality health care is not in their pocket today. At my last reception, a woman asked me to find a sponsor to pay for a transplant operation for her husband, whose value was 56,000 bracelets, and for such treatments. Regrettably, patients have to pay very high-quality medical attention to the clinics of the research institutes, even though they are funded from the State budget. The second area of multi-channel funding for medicine could be the expansion of paid services. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had recently made a step in that direction by adopting additions to the relevant decision. However, the Ministry of Health is particularly in a hurry to implement it, although this is an additional opportunity to earn money. The third direction is charity. However, the attempt to improve legal aid has not continued. By order of the Constitutional Court, charitable assistance from legal and natural persons is considered illegal. Consequently, we, the people's deputies, need to make appropriate changes to existing legislation that not only allow but also encourage charitable assistance to medical institutions. The fourth direction is to create a more favourable environment for private health practices, which will free up part of the budget for the provision of services to the underprivileged. According to practitioners, there is a particular need to strengthen the logistics base of the primary health unit: polyclinics, field obstetrics, district hospitals, medical outpatients. Indeed, this is where most of the population is seeking medical treatment. With the adoption of the budget resolution, these institutions are financed from rural budgets. What the rural budget is known to all: the feds and obstetrics do not heat, there is no medicine, there is no half-yearly pay for nurses, and every day the quality of medical care for the rural population declines dramatically. It is therefore necessary to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code on how to finance these institutions or to resolve the possibility of maintaining them through higher-level budgets, as schools are currently in place. However, I cannot help but criticize the Ministry of Health, which does not ensure the rational use of allocated appropriations in such a dire lack of budgetary resources. According to the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the funds allocated to the Ministry of Health in 2000 and 2001 show that 17.4 million grevens are used illegally, inefficient, amounting to 18.9 million grevens, unearmarked, amounting to 0.6 million grevens. There are other violations. The above problems are further exacerbated by the poor salaries of health workers. It is unlikely that everyone in the room knows that a beginner has a monthly salary of 165 grevens, at the level of the salaries of a nurse and a nurse. By Decree 1298 of 30 August 2002, the Government approved a single tariff network of charges and labour factors for a number of sectors of the budget sector, including health, which provides for an increase in wages of 20-25 per cent. However, it is now clear that it is far from being implemented, since the draft consolidated budget provides for an increase of only 12 per cent in medical personnel salaries. Dear colleagues! In order to address industry problems, the Democratic Initiatives Deputies Group proposes to strengthen the monitoring of budgetary resources. First. Develop an integrated integrated programme for systematic changes in health. Second. There is a significant increase in extrabudgetary sources of funding for this sector. Among them, compulsory public social health insurance, voluntary health insurance, voluntary contributions from legal and natural persons, and the development of private medical practices should play a primary role. The Ukrainian National Social Insurance Act must be adopted without delay. Third. Undertake the restructuring of the health system, with emphasis on improving the financing of primary health care. Fourth. Find additional opportunities to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Order 1298 of 30 August 2002 and introduce a tariff network to pay medical workers according to levels and coefficients. One of the effective mechanisms for parliamentary control over the financing of the medical field could be the approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of State-wide programmes in this sector, as provided for in article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution. No such programmes have been approved by the Supreme Council, unlike other industries. However, strengthening parliamentary control will contribute to the rational, timely and full use of budgetary resources. I believe that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in this sector should be considered insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u192	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the CPU. Dear colleagues! Dear Vitaly Fedorovich! The imbalance between its potential and the current very low logistic status is a major concern of the health sector. Everyone knows that qualitative diagnosis of diseases and pathological conditions is not possible without modern diagnostic and medical equipment. The need for funding for the acquisition of the necessary medical equipment and equipment for the treatment and diagnostic process - I will speak in the example of the Kirovograd region, as I represent it - amounts to 21 million grivens. But neither the Ministry nor the Cabinet of Ministers are paying much attention to this problem. And for what purpose is there a material imbalance between the potential health opportunities and the extremely low, poverty-based logistics level, with the high noise of establishing diagnostic centres in the absence of diagnostic and medical equipment? Is this not a provocation at the State level to create conditions for the extinction of the people against the backdrop of the remarkable success of world medicine? In the area, there is also an unresolved problem with the acquisition of a computer tomographer. By the way, only one Kirovograd region has no equipment. On many occasions, however, the abuse to the Ministry remains unresponsive. Or what is the basis for the liquidation of the maternity wards and the introduction of health clinics in the village, for there must be a doctor, a nurse, when transferring them to rural communities? They thus fall not only from the State's budget but also from the professional control of district hospitals. Is that also a provocation to destroy the health care of the rural population? Or let's take a different question: hospital feeding. It is aimed at slow extinction, not cure. Why was the State almost self-sustaining from addressing the issue of nutrition for the sick? Or is it also a public policy aimed at reducing the population? Even tea is given without sugar and high-level brewing and sugar production in the country. And the wages of the medical staff in our area are decided separately: this is where they learn to pay part-time wages -- 10% to total wages, 20% to others. And none of them care. Thus, for major medical problems and for the organization of first-aid care, failures are irreversible. The reasons, first of all, I think, are in the loss of a strict public approach. Although the Constitution of Ukraine had established such a State policy, but it was not implemented, it had been proclaimed, but unfortunately it was not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-08-m0.u193	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[Election District 171, Kharkiv Region]] In the system of human values, health has a special place. When he loses, all the other values lose meaning. The health factor for Ukraine remains relevant, acute, and decisive. Despite the complex demographic situation, the high level of general illness and mortality of the population, the financial security situation of the sector is catastrophically poor. One resident in Ukraine is allocated 135 dollars a year, or 25 dollars a year. At the same time, health care costs per capita range from $700 in the United Kingdom to nearly $4,000 in the United States. According to the World Health Organization, the average global cost of health care is 8 percent of the world’s output. In low- and middle-income countries, these costs are equal to 4 percent. In Ukraine this figure is only 2.6 percent and is the lowest in five years. The 2003 draft budget provides 6.5 billion dollars for health care, although the annual minimum need for domestic health facilities is doubling. To this day, the State has a moral debt before the medical authorities. On the average, if an employee receives 311 bracelets, a scientist gets 420 bracelets, the average salary of a doctor is only 183 bracelets. That's more than twice the cost of living. As a result, 1.3 million workers in this area have been transformed into beggars, and the health system is effectively supported only by the incredible efforts of the medical community themselves, their high public responsibility, and their loyalty to their professional responsibilities. The State’s guarantee of free medical care is virtually unfulfilled and has become an illusion. The "White Spot" in domestic legislation remains the issue of the provision of paid medical services. With a view to effectively increasing the financial and resource potential of the sector, the Democratic Initiative Group insists on the urgent implementation of the following package of measures: 1. Develop an integrated comprehensive program to make systematic changes in the health field. Since no country in the world is under an obligation to finance exclusively health care, there is a need for a substantial expansion of non-budgetary sources of funding for this area. Among them, the main areas should include compulsory government social insurance, voluntary health insurance, community expenses, targeted medical congregations, voluntary contributions and donations of legal persons. It is essential that the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Act be adopted on a timely basis. 2. To restructure the health system by shifting emphasis on primary health care, which will significantly reduce the need for high-cost specialized assistance. 3. Concentrate on the implementation of state-priority programs and integrated programming measures, including national programmes "Children of Ukraine", "Family Planning", "Genetic Monitoring", "Sugar Diabetes", "Health of the Elderly". The general state of the nation's health is defined primarily in complexes of non-medical causes, so the problems of tuberculosis and AIDS, which cannot be solved without a substantial improvement in socio-economic conditions. It is to improve these conditions that our efforts should be directed.
