ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, your honor, to prepare for registration. Turn on the system, please. Please register. [[10:02:37]] Registered -358 There are 358 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5.2. Wednesday's rules are 30 minutes for the national MPs to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, to report. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Leukka Lukyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of the Hortic National Reserve. I would like to place a vote on the motion to Prime Minister Leuk Lukyanka. Please vote. [[10:03:44]] For-138 The decision is "for" - 138 people's deputies. Vladimir Demjochina and Igor Jeremeyev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the creation of a daughter company called Naftogaz Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Prime Minister. [[10:04:18]] For 1052 Decision taken. "For" - 102 people's deputies. Victor Baloga and a group of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the socio-economic situation in enterprises and educational institutions of the Ukrainian Blind Association in the Zakarpat region. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Prime Minister. Please make up your mind. [[10:04:54]] For-147 "For" is 147 people's deputies. Decision taken. The Heads of State to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide information on the financing of the acquisition of new buildings for the establishment of an official residence and the permanent representation of the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the Council of Europe. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Prime Minister. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:33]] For-88 "To" - 88. The decision is not taken. Vasil Tsushka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Decision on the Approval of Lists of Documents and Groups of Goods Protected by holographic Protective Elements. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Prime Minister. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:09]] For-83 For 83, no decision is taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the objective consideration of parliamentary requests for crimes and other offences committed by government officials and officials and for the provision of complete and reliable information on the issues raised. I would like to vote on the request to the Attorney General. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:50]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the inapplicability of the prosecutor’s office in the Chernigev region of the measures to bring to justice the Head of the Montenegrin District Public Administration of Butka for violating the electoral legislation on the electoral day of the March 31st elections, for which the relevant materials were sent to the prosecutor’s office on March 31, 2002. I would like to vote on the request to the Attorney General. [[10:07:35]] For 134 For negative 134, the decision's been made. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the verification of the information on the preparation of the murder of Volkov Alexander Mihajlovich and Bakay Igor Mihajlovich, who own the information on the crimes committed by President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich of Ukraine and other state officials. As well as a background check on the preparation of the murder of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, and the use of personal security measures by Volkov, Bakaya, Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:26]] For 128 For - 128, the decision is made. By factions, please, at the request of the national MPs. Anatolia Pisarenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the Head of the Audit and Audit Authority, the Head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine for the purpose of separating the decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from 20 February 2002 on the position of economic incentives for companies producing taxable goods in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to ensure the scope of product implementation. I'll bet you a vote on asking questions. [[10:09:18]] For 104 For 104, the decision is made. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for illegal detention of prisoners arrested on 9 March. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:47]] For the 110. For 110, the decision is made. The factions, please. Vasil Redvoni and a group of deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal investigation of the death of a resident of the city of Kostopil of the Valley of Dunek. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:25]] For 105 For 105, the decision is made. Vladimir Anishuk to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the airline "Odessa Airlines" of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" in part of the transportation security of Ukrainian national deputies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:59]] For 202 For 202, the decision is made. Lev Mirimsky and Volodymyr Sklar, head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets in connection with the issuance of an order to eliminate the administration of the State Commission in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:38]] Z-77 For 77. The decision is not taken. Andrew School to the head of the Department of State for the execution of sentences for failure to provide adequate medical care to severely ill prisoners. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:08]] Z-91 For -91. Decision taken. The factions, please. Mikoli Tomenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the current requirements of some of the Ukrainian Minister of Education and Science’s letters on the organization of the educational process in higher education institutions in the 2002 - 2003 school year. I'm betting on the vote to send a request to the Cabinet of Ministers. [[10:12:56]] For 118 To - 118. Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, national deputy Sergei Hlavatiya, insists on voting on the request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide information on financing the acquisition of new buildings for the establishment of an official residence and the permanent representation of a permanent representative of Ukraine in the Council of Europe. I'm betting on the vote on the referrals according to the insistence of the national MP. [[10:13:35]] For the 110. To 110. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies, Oliynik Petr Mikhailovich, who was 45 years old, and Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, who was 65 years old. I ask them to welcome these dates and to wish us all success and longevity. Dear colleagues, there's been an electronic record, and there's a record right here in the Presidium. If you don't mind, I will. Please point it on the board. People's MP of the Mhitarians, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and of the Labour Ukraine. Half an hour, dear fellows, we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u2	Nver Mhitaryan, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, Trudové Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I consider it necessary to draw your attention to the problem that concerns thousands of our fellow citizens working abroad. During the years of independence, Ukraine has opened its diplomatic missions, consular services, trade offices in 108 countries around the world. Thousands of our fellow citizens work abroad in Ukrainian institutions. Many leave with school - age children. To date, these children, and I stress, more than a thousand, have become hostages of their own State, which has not been able to adequately ensure their right to a full secondary education guaranteed by the Constitution and the Law on Education, on Universal Secondary Education. In a large way, it is a violation of human rights with all the consequences. There is agreement with the Russian Federation that juvenile Ukrainian citizens living with their parents abroad should attend schools at Russian embassies in all countries of residence. But this is only a partial solution. For objective reasons, the Ukrainian language and literature, the history of Ukraine, society and some other general educational disciplines are not taught. Therefore, the children of our citizens on their return to their homeland have a great deal of problems in meeting the requirements of general education programmes, in evaluating knowledge and passing the entrance examinations for the above-mentioned subjects to higher education institutions. It is also important that this category of citizens has been deprived of the opportunity to learn Ukrainian. Of course, financial problems have not yet allowed Ukraine to maintain full national schools in diplomatic missions. But to leave everything as it is can't and must't stay. This is not an easy task for professionals to identify in the area of training. One option is offered by the parents themselves. This is the opening of an extranary school in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The network of branches of such a school was established by the Ukrainian embassies and could provide a normal training process. Modern information technologies enable remote learning, effective knowledge control. The graduates would receive State documents on the secondary education of the model. But today everything is resisting in the absence of an adequate regulatory framework. In order to establish the status of the external school in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, it is necessary to amend the Ukrainian Universal Secondary Education Act as well as the Regulation on State Outcome Appraisal of Students in Universal Secondary Education. In this regard, I would like to take it that my statement is a request from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Minister of Education of Ukraine. It is important that both ministries determine the best solution to the problem as soon as possible. This would allow the submission of documents to be considered at the beginning of the next session and to seek funding from such a school in the State budget for 2003. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u3	National Deputy Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u4	In front of Anastasia's word, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u5	Anastasiav, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u6	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In connection with the media interview by a number of Heads of State, the intention to deprive war veterans of all benefits and guarantees, social protection, and the resulting letter, petitions, statements by veterans, the City Veterans Organization of the capital was forced to hold an extended meeting of the Bureau on 8 July, in which more than 350 veterans of the capital participated. All those wishing to participate were unable to attend because of the lack of space. The meeting addressed the President, the President of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister. Let me read out the text of this communication. “We, the members of the extended meeting of the Bureau of the Kiev City Veterans Organization, are outraged that in the media, in an interview, several heads of State have increasingly expressed their intention, contrary to the Constitution and other laws since 2003, to deprive war veterans of all benefits and guarantees, their social protection, by replacing them with their so-called targeted assistance. Veterans are well aware of what targeted assistance, compensation, is made in exchange for unused travel in sanatoriums and other benefits. The Kiev City Veterans'Organization has been categorically protesting against replacing the benefits guaranteed by law with the so-called targeted assistance. Veterans do not believe this novelty, which will plunge veterans into even greater poverty and become the source of another fabulous enrichment of the nuorish. The millennial history of mankind did not know such examples of such a shameless, rude and wild robbery, the inhuman genocide of an older generation. Veterans are outraged by the duality and incoherence of the leaders of the State, who say that they are aware of veterans, that they are ashamed of what they have done to the elderly, most of whom are living in poverty, and some in poverty. In fact, it is clear that these statements are linked to specific actions. We demand all benefits for veterans, pensioners, who now need to be preserved by the laws in force. The level of pension, the main source of livelihood, should not be below the subsistence minimum. War invalids are categorically demanding a positive solution to the question of the restoration of justice in their pensions, as reiterated in this appeal. Statements adopted unanimously by members of the Bureau, supported by 350 activists, at the extended meeting of the Bureau at the request of members of the Assembly, I present the text of the statement to the President of the Presidency of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u7	Thank you. National MP Zvaric, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u8	Roman Zvaric. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u9	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u10	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Honourable Head, fellow national MPs, sadly, Ukrainian politics, Ukrainian society is very difficult and hard to get rid of Soviet thinking and evaluation stereotypes. I started this conversation by mentioning that this year is 60 years old since the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army. And to the honor of our Parliament, the Parliament of the Fourth Call, and I think it's capable, in principle, of taking such a step, to restore historical justice to this movement. And in connection with the three national deputies of the movement's political group in the faction of "Our Ukraine": Bogdan Kostinuk, John Stoyko and Jaroslav Kenzier, have submitted to the Supreme Council Secretariat a law on the restoration of historical justice in the struggle for freedom and independence of the Ukrainian State, which is proposed to fully objectively and honestly assess the role of this movement in the history of our State and in the achievement of the independence of the Ukrainian State. I believe this Supreme Council is capable of taking such a step. When I talk about the stereotypes of Soviet thinking, it is appropriate that the leaders of the North Atlantic NATO bloc visit Ukraine these days also have to change the stereotypes of Soviet evaluation and attitudes towards this European military and political union. And it seems to me that the Supreme Council of today's, present-day vocation has a unique historical chance to help Ukraine make a sharp turn towards Europe and towards the process of merging with the European Union and with the North Atlantic bloc. So, understanding that Ukraine can't continue to be trapped in any uncertainty and to follow in a consistent manner, as it has been before today, in Russia's footsteps and following the direction of the Russian leadership, without taking any radical, serious steps towards Europe, there is today such a possibility, however, that Europe is giving such serious signals to Ukraine that it is witnessing and visiting NATO's leadership to Ukraine. And for this Parliament, it would have to review a lot of the provisions of the agreements that it has concluded with Russia, particularly with regard to the Russian Black Sea fleet in Ukraine, and many other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u12	So I urge my fellow national deputies, the leadership of the Supreme Council not to miss this, indeed, great, unique historical chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u13	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u14	[[Fast, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] . Please pass the word to Valentina Seminyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u15	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u16	Semenyuk, Socialist faction. Fellow citizens, the Socialist Party and the Kiev City Committee of the Socialist Party want to draw public attention today to the situation in Kiev. As early as 2000, a civil committee for the protection of Kyiv's socio-economic rights, consisting of more than ten political parties and public organizations, began to operate in the capital for the initiative of the Kyiv City Committee. For two years, protests, civil gatherings, meetings with Kiyivrada’s deputies, and the management of the Kiev City State Administration have been held on numerous occasions. By the efforts of political parties in November 2000, we were able to stabilize the situation around prices and tariffs for residential services in Kiev. However, as we have learned from the media, new tariffs have been set for the production of heat and residential services in Kiev since first July 2002. The corresponding order was signed by the deputy head of the Kyiv city administration, John Homenko. In line with these documents, new housing and utility tariffs are introduced for the population. On the average, quarterly payments and utility payments in Kiev will increase by 25 percent, which is certainly a heavy burden on the shoulders of that part of the Chinese, which was recently referred to as the middle-income category, and tomorrow they will be able to stand and fill the ranks of those outside the poverty line. And if we add more to the payment of electricity and communications services, we will have a very strong picture: nearly forty percent of the family’s income will be paid for the services. Moreover, it makes sense to continue to increase prices for residential services, to increase the price of bread one and a half times. Bread will become inaccessible not only to those living outside of poverty but also to most Ukrainians. The Socialist Party of Ukraine, together with political parties and social organizations of the left and left-wing organizations, repeatedly addressed the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of municipal services. Sadly, though, the matter has not been resolved until now. In view of the meeting of the Kiev City Council on July 11, this year, I feel it is necessary, through the Supreme Council’s rostrum, to contact the newly elected deputies of the capital’s representative body to consider your programs, your commitments to the Chinese. In addition, I say that the civil committee will be conducting the custody of the Kyiv City Public Administration tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u17	National Deputy Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u18	Respectable people's deputies, respected presiding officers, present and heard! I would like to say a slightly different point of view with regard to Ukraine's involvement in NATO. One of the deputies addressed me as soon as possible for Ukraine to enter Europe, including this military political bloc. You know that Mr. Robertson was in the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday, and the molva tells us that some of the people's deputies in their attempt to testify to him were pushing at the door like Bobchinsky and Dopczynski. Well, either way, I can't testify exactly, but I want to tell you this: yesterday there was a rally around the President's administration, and it wasn't a rally of people who knew what NATO was like, but a rally of those people who had walked around Europe 50 years ago, half-Europe, those who knew how this "crime organization" was born. And I would like to bring to your attention, on their instructions, the opinion of another part of the city's people, not of the people's deputies, but of those who I have my opinion, and of those whom we are sometimes here, from the rostrum, we call the people. The meeting formulated its requirements in the form of a requirement for participants to the President of Ukraine in connection with the visit of Secretary-General Robertson to Ukraine. In view of the fact that NATO, for its more than 50-year history, has declared itself to be an aggressive bloc that is fully pursuing politics, the aggressive policies of the United States, that its actions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at the four meetings of the civil tribunal in the years 1999-2000 in Yaroslavla, Kiev, Belgrade, Sofia are qualified in accordance with the international law as war crimes against humanity and peace, that Ukraine's involvement in NATO is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine, which has been anti-constitutionally signed in Madrid on 9 July 1997, we demand that the President of Ukraine refuse to reintegrate the Charter on the Special Partnership of Ukraine and NATO, which has been anti-constitutionally signed in Madrid on 9 July 1997, that the President of Ukraine's decree to reintivate the status of the State for the adoption of NATO. The participants in the rally believe that NATO member states are not threatened, that NATO is not creating a security system, but a system of danger. And today's motto of the day, not just today, but all the following days: "Not the expansion of NATO to the East! Ukraine outside NATO!" - accepted by the participants and entrusted to me as a document of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u19	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The following will be the national deputy of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Deputy Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u21	National MP Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out, first of all, that as of today, as I was called on television, there is no broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting. I don't know what happened there yesterday, what was there, what was there, what was there, what were the mice chewing on the cable today. Please note this. It's different. I would like to draw the attention of the deputies to the fact that today there is an enterprise in Dnipropetrovska today that is threatening a nuclear catastrophe for all of Ukraine. What's the point? In the area of Watt Electrongaz in Yellowwater or in the Dnipropetrovsk region, after the end of the release of military equipment at the Electron plant remains the source of ionizing radiation of medium and high activity, total activity of 14.2 Curi. As evidenced by the appropriate address of the third extracurricular session of the Yellowwater City Council, 14 calls to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 29 April this year, these radiations have been kept unsupervised by special services. In 2001, the budget managed to eliminate low-activity activities in total activity of only zero to eight thousand Curi. Such a pace of work can lead to unforeseen and irreparable environmental and social consequences not only in the city’s territory but even in part in the Dnipropetrovsk and Kirovograd region. Taking into account the state of emergency, I ask in response to the provisions of the People's MP's Status Act to provide information to the Cabinet of Ministers, to give instructions on this, on the state of funding and the conduct of work on the dumping of ionizing radiation sources in 2002. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u23	National Deputy Kirilenko, Ukrainian Agrarians faction, will be followed by the Domansky People's Deputy, a Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give the floor to a member of the faction, National Deputy Shershun Mikoli Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u25	National Deputy Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u26	Mikola Shershun, Plainshine, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Our faction believes that two decisive laws for our people, namely the state and non-state pension systems, must be introduced before we list the primary legislative acts that need to be worked on urgently. The adoption of these laws will speed up pension reform, the ultimate goal of which is to increase pension levels to 60 to 70 percent of wages. So far, this is twice as much. The radical changes in retirement are expected by everyone, but especially the villagers, because the pension in a village where 2/3 of the population is older is the only source of family survival. In addition, there are virtually no deserving and retired generals among the peasants who would be able to obtain higher pension benefits. In a figurative sense, rural pensions are cut equally to zero. People complain of a humiliating comparison that neither recognizes the merit of a 40-year-old mechanic, nor a milkmaid who, for decades in rubber boots from star to star, inhales ammonia, has lost her health before retirement. Such a social protection system in the countryside has long been brought together, requires urgent reform in line with the global processes that are taking place in agriculture today. The situation is not fair when a peasant’s pension gives way to the pensions of many other categories. Sadly, during ten years of independence, attempts to reform pensions were like Sisyphic labor. Today, we are on the verge of a real solution to this important problem for every Ukrainian. We believe that the rapid replacement of the solidarity system for mandatory stockpiling will allow for a breakthrough in pension insurance in Ukraine, and legislatively, these processes are needed by the end of today’s calendar year. The accumulation of funds that a person will use in personal retirement accounts after 2 or 30 years, provided that a clearly regulated mechanism is available, will allow them to invest in domestic future production. In other words, these are funds that can be credited by important government projects. Our faction believes that it is necessary to foresee and develop a mechanism that would allow retirement savings for the future to actually increase pensions today, especially for peasants. Dear colleagues! Our people today are well aware of the need for self-sustainment of pension funds. Many are already doing so, spending money in various foreign pension organizations, squeezing foreign nations with their funds. The agricultural faction has sufficient experts who, based on the world’s experience of pension guarantees, are capable of taking the initiative to develop mechanisms and prepare important normative documents. The faction has already prepared a package of specific proposals on this issue. We are ready to cooperate with all the political forces and individual MPs, for which it is important that in Ukraine the word "pensioner" finally ceases to be synonymous with the word "probie." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u27	National Deputy Domansky. He will be followed by national deputy Kravchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would ask our colleagues from some factions not to rush into NATO generals. And the second. I appeal to every member of our Parliament as humanists, to fight for the elimination of all the military aggressions that are being carried out worldwide. Now, please pass the word to Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u29	People's deputy Kravchenko will be speaking, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'd like to draw your attention to the situation that has arisen in the south-south pipe plant. Imagine a picture like this. On July 5, a thousand-thousand group of the largest company in the world takes to the streets, picking up a group of shareholders, and then passes to the city council, demanding that the authorities deal with the situation that took place in the company. I'll remind you. It is the largest factory in the world in the production of pipes, its unique and its type of pipes, and it has no equivalent in terms of output. In its time, somewhere in 87, this facility was divided into four halls -- Interpipe, Nico."Staltrumbe," in general, a company of quite famous people in Ukraine, one of them is Pinchuk. And they split it up in such a way that these 4 halls are thriving, they're making millions of profits, and the debt of about 250 million bracelets, it's all been taken down into the main enterprise -- the NICU, which to date is actually composed of one factory number two and a factory. And the number two work station hasn't paid a salary in five months. They've been hanged by electricity debts, they don't actually give them electricity. People are asked to see how their work has turned out to be extreme. It is assumed that it is simply that they create unnecessary competition for another Karl Libknecht factory in Dnepropetrovsk, which is also allegedly owned by Pinchuk, and ask the Ministry of Industrial Policy to join the work of the Commission, which was established by the Dnepropetrov Oil Industry Administration to study the situation. The Office of the Attorney-General is currently in the process of doing so. Please consider my official request to the Ministry of Industrial Policy to join the work of the Special Commission, which has begun work on this plant since today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u31	National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction. He will be followed by the national representative of Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, I would like to address you, the Secretariat on the next issue. The Supreme Council, as the quintession of society, must, in my view, respond very adequately to the situation in the country. And if we take the agenda that was given to us today and examine it even superficially, we will see that the tragedy that took place in Donbass, the loss of 35 miners, has had no impact on the work of the Supreme Council. The agenda includes all matters related to value added tax, lobbying issues related to the alleged provision of fuel and lubricants to agricultural enterprises. This is even the name of the village, the village fire department, the value added laws, and so on, but there is no law that has led to no action on the bankruptcy of mines. And the tragedy that has taken place on the mines of Ukraine is a direct consequence of the actions of our Government. This is my ex-district. I took part in a meeting of the government commission on Monday, and I read the originals of what happened on the Ukraine mine. This is the direct inactivity of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, which is pursuing a mine destruction policy. Today 46 mines, including the Ukraine mine, are in bankruptcy. And today the director who's been arrested is simply, let's say, a scapegoat. He has only been appointed Director for 3 months and has no legal status. There is a senator, who comes once a week, who signs financial documents that don't care about production, safety and so on. I passed Bill 1049, which can't be on the agenda for eight months. I request that in September, Law 1049 be considered as a matter of priority and included in the agenda. The same is true today, respected colleagues, and with such a mass organization, with such massive, well, associations as drivers. To date, I have been elected President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the protection of the rights of drivers. This organization is now well aware that the GAI, in order to regain its former positions, is drafting a bill that will provide for an annual confirmation of the rules, return, knowledge of traffic rules. You know it's five hundred bracelets from each person. And you know that this affects fourteen million people. That is why I am asking for a bill which I have submitted to amend the provisions of the Police Act to be considered as a matter of priority in September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u33	National deputy Jeremeyev, Ukrainian Agrarian faction, and time is up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u35	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, today, several bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers have changed the field of legislation in the area of taxation and financing of Ukraine's agricultural sector. What does that mean? The Added Cost Tax Act provides for the reduction of the premium tax on added value for agricultural producers. The Committee on Finance and Banking, by supporting the position of the agrarians, agreed that in this regard the tax field until 2004, as established by the Act on the Development of the Agricultural Sector of Ukraine by 2004, should not be amended. The same applies to the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers to remove a 1 - percent congregation for the development of agriculture, gardening, and hops in Ukraine. You know, thanks to the one - percent congregation that you and I voted in this room, tens of thousands of hectares of vineyards, gardens, and hops have been planted today. Today, the issue of hop production in Ukraine has almost been removed. Today, 60 percent of our brewers use hop Ukrainian. Another year or two and a hundred percent will be Ukrainian hop. The same with grapes and gardens. We're both in markets and in shops, we see apples from foreign countries, they're in a flower garden planted in Ukraine. This must be taken very seriously. So far, we're bringing in the wine liquors and the wine products from across the border. This is with great opportunity to grow grapes in Ukraine. Honorable fellow national MPs, you can't change the rules of the game halfway. The Ukrainian Agrarian faction addresses all of you, especially those who have served in rural constituencies, not to vote in this position, but to vote, as the Committee on Finance and Banking has put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the time for messages has been exhausted. With regard to the suggestions and questions raised in your speeches, appropriate instructions will be prepared and sent to the central authorities of the executive branch. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussions on Wednesday's meeting schedule. The draft Law on the Concept of a Statewide Program for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation is before you. Reporter - State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice of the Rabbit Anatoly Pavlovich The Cabinet of Ministers made a proposal: Instead of Lavrinovich, who took the floor for Anatoly Pavlovich the Rabbit. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Ukrainian Law "On the Concept of a National Program for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation" has been developed to implement the decisions of the National Council on the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the European Court of Justice since 11 December 2000, in line with the tasks defined by the strategy for Ukraine's integration into the European Union, approved by the President's decree of 11 June 1998. At the second meeting of the National Council on the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, held on 13 July 2001, the draft law was reviewed and supported. The concept should become a legal basis for the creation of a state-wide mechanism for the adaptation of legislation to comply with the principles of consistency of adaptation priorities with the basic principles of legal reform in the state, the progressive and orderlyness of the integrated unity of the process of adapting legislation to the overall regulatory process of Ukraine. The implementation of these principles provides for the prioritization of the development of Ukrainian legislation and the concentration of the efforts of the public authorities in these directions. Among the main problems that have led to the slowing down of the process of adapting legislation and needing a solution are the following. First. At the legislative level, there are no defined objectives, spheres and stages of legislative adaptation, no state-wide mechanism for the adaptation of legislation, which should be part of financial, information, scientific and human security. There is a lack of systemivity and coherence in the work of the public authorities in the process of adapting legislation. It needs to improve the planning of standard-setting work in Ukraine, which should be based on a long-term long-term programme for the development of Ukrainian legislation towards its approach to European Union legislation. Another negative factor is that there are no single, binding rules for all actors in the standard-setting process in Ukraine to prepare draft legislation in the process of adapting legislation. Moreover, as is well - known, human resources in public authorities are imperfect in this regard. There is a shortage of specialists who would meet the specific qualifications required to be placed in the process of adapting legislation. It can also be said that the information provision for adapting legislation is insufficient. It is clear that there is a need for improvement and order in the preparation of annual proposals for funding measures for the adaptation of legislation in the State budget of Ukraine. All these problems cannot be solved without the creation of an effective national mechanism to adapt Ukraine’s legislation to European Union legislation. The first step towards the development of the Public Adaptation Program should be the concept of such a program, which defines the objectives, main tasks, principles of design, execution and financing of the program and its structure. I would like to point out that a state-wide programme is a set of interlinked tasks for the adaptation of legislation, it aims at the implementation of state policy and the priorities for the creation of Ukraine's modern legal system by improving the rule-of-law and implementing a single system of planning, coordinating and monitoring work with the adaptation of legislation. The aim of the national programme will be to create preconditions for the preparation of the legislative field for Ukraine's entry into the European Union. Convinced that approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Concept of the General Programme will be an extremely important step towards the implementation of systems, complexity, coherence, and the development of adaptation processes at the national level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the question to the reporter I see is. Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u40	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. The honourable rapporteur, the concept is understandable, the objective is understandable. But we accept the bill, the bill provides for concrete actions, concrete steps. This bill does not show a list of specific documents, once in a while, without seeing the deadlines of implementation, nor are responsible people who are obliged to take steps. Isn't it going to be that concept in general, let's say, a document for a document to, in general, express some direction that we're going about that way? Your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I am convinced that the concept, if approved, plays an extremely positive role. First of all, really, there are no timelines and no lists of acts to be developed. But the point is, the concept doesn't pursue that goal. The concept, first of all, pursues the goal of defining the general principles of approaches to how such a state-wide program should be drawn up. And so in this state-wide program, there's going to be specific lines, specific acts and what we're going to have to do in developing this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u42	People's MP, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u43	Dear reporter! Please tell me. We know you as a very professional lawyer, very literate. How did you or did you not succeed in introducing a bill, namely to the President, to combine the inextricable things according to the law? Because the program is an action, in principle. The concept is a scientific point of view from every point of view. And the law is a normative act that contains a binding legal force. How can the law combine both the scientific point of view and action and give them legal power? Do you think that the authors who brought the Supreme Council or the Supreme Council's own concept of adaptation or adaptation, or, perhaps, the concept of an adaptation program, but not a law that should contain mandatory legal norms that are not exactly present in this document?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u44	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Of course, the question that you are addressing is worthy of not only practical attention but also theoretical attention. Indeed, the question of concept is, in fact, the question of the general direction of what needs to be done. But if you look at the practices of the Supreme Council, you will find concepts that have been approved. Yes, they did. In addition, today's work of the Supreme Council, I would like to say that with regard to the Constitution, the development of the most important legislative acts, of course, should be preceded by the definition of a strategy for the development of such acts. In this part, given that it only matters for the development of this program, we can take it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u45	People's deputy of the Eudokim, faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u47	National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u48	Thank you. Anatoly Pavlovich, I want to bring you back to the question asked by my colleague Matvienkov, what concerns us. That's the thing. That we're in this room more than once, and you're often working with us, we're looking at a bill that can't then achieve the goal, because it's not. It's a concept. Tell me, please, a specific question, what will the developer do to compensate for the lack of direct action in this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. For the developer, it's very important. You know how the Supreme Council gives the task of drafting the law, as it does in the relevant committee when it comes to drafting the law. A certain amount of principles, a certain amount of the original principles, are to be laid down as the basis for such a law, a future law. And that's actually just to create an orientation for the developer. With regard to the completion of this national programme, it will be filled out, also from the amount of documents that exist today, which are approved by Ukraine or exist as bilateral documents, resulting from appropriate strategies that are approved by the President, which are developed and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think it's going to be the sum of the initials that are going to be the basis of the document. But in addition, I would like to point out that the draft concept that you're looking at also contains a number of very important principles that should be the basis for such an already state-wide program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u50	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u51	The Socialist Party faction, Shibko. Please pass the word to Valentina Seminyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u52	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u53	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Mr. Hare, please tell us how you look at what we have the right Presidential Decree on the conduct of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with the Council of Europe standards is the 91st year, and during the last year, especially when there have been Bolsheviks in the parliament of the past assembly, draft laws such as the Code of Land are being adopted, which is actually going against the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which essentially eliminates the law on local self-government, because according to paragraph 4 of the European Charter on Local Land Self-Government are decided solely in plenary council meetings. And according to the Earth Code, it is accepted that this is decided by the administrations at present. Well, it's a violation today and it's a corruption that's laid down in the law. How will you act today if this concept is accepted and the laws that have already been passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u54	Thank you, Reverend Valentina Petrovna, for that question. I would like to say that the task of harmonising Ukraine's legislation with the European Union's legislation will be addressed and will be supported by this state-wide programme. The point is that today's Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which operates between the European Union and Ukraine, it, I would say, does not yet provide the full range of issues that need to be adapted to legislation that needs to be adapted to European Union legislation. This Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is essentially local in nature. The introduction of this National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukraine’s Legislation to the European Union will help resolve the very many issues of the approximation of legislation that is being talked about today, but which, unfortunately, is still going on very weakly and gradually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u55	Thank you. Anatoly Pavlovich, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u56	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u57	The co-report will be provided by the Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee, Roman Mihajlovich Zvarić. Please, Roman. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill on the Concept of the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, introduced by the President of Ukraine under the heading "immediate" and therefore under article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is obliged to consider this bill in an orderly manner, i.e. at this session. [[Registration number 1191]] The project is of a conceptual nature and therefore there are no normative positions, which are usually contained in other laws, which other national deputies have already talked about here. Instead, the main tasks assigned to this law are: to provide for the only approaches in the design process; to take the requirements of EU legislation into account in the design process; to provide qualified professionals for this purpose; to create the right conditions for systematizing the process of adapting Ukrainian legislation to European legal standards. The existing regulatory framework designed to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations under the partnership and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the European Union of 14 June 1994 consists of several sublegal acts. These are, in particular, Presidential decrees that defined Ukraine's EU integration strategy, its integration programme and, accordingly, the National Council for the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation. However, when we look at Ukraine's concrete achievements along the lines of our rapprochement with the European Union or, more faithfully, at the absence of such significant achievements, we can conclude that all of these actions were designed to create the visibility of Ukraine's progress towards Europe, to cover up the widest so-called multi-speciesity of Ukraine's constant fluctuation between Europe and Europe. As a result, we have been banging in one place for over 10 years because these two vectors are mutually exclusive. We hope that this bill, in the context of the recent presidential message, will be a more decisive expression of the final definition of Ukraine and its vision of its place in Europe. Let us note that Ukraine has recently failed to obtain market economy status once again when the European Union has recognised such status as the Russian Federation. Now essentially what's being taught. The main money of the project is that it provides for the approval of a state-wide programme to adapt our legislation to the EU's regulatory base. Such a programme would provide a more systematic approach in the process of adaptation, defining the priorities of Ukraine's legal policy and the stage of its implementation. It is possible to create a single system for coordinating and monitoring the adaptation of legislation. The programme should consist of several elements: one of them is an annual work plan, which is subject to parliamentary approval, and where budgetary allocations are to be determined. The bill introduced by the President in conceptual form, clearly and in detail, defines the subject of standard-setting work. I will not enter this subject of knowledge, since there is little time. The bill also sets out the general phased programming vectors and goals of Ukraine’s state policy in this area. They are as follows: Ukraine’s Introduction to the World Trade Organization The creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. Associated membership of Ukraine in the EU The Committee on European Integration considered a bill introduced by the President on the concept of adapting Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be approved in the first reading and that the committee should be tasked with developing a draft in preparation for second reading. The corresponding bill of decision on number 1191 "p" is given to you. In view of the conceptual nature of the project, it could be approved as a law as a whole. However, while aware of the strategic significance of the bill, some of the principles of the shortcomings of the project under consideration should be described, which should be adjusted in preparation for the second reading. That would be the least, given the slow pace of the development of the Ukrainian legislative base along the lines of its introduction to the requirements of European law, it might really be necessary to define the legal mechanism for the formation and approval of such a State-wide programme. In such a case, the prescribed bill should clearly specify the time frame for the development of such a document to which it is entrusted and the legal mechanisms for its entry into force, with a clear definition of the legal consequences of the approval of such a national programme. There is no law in this bill, and this needs to be finalized in the process of preparing it for second reading. Therefore, it is proposed that the project be approved as a basis, or first reading, and that it be entrusted to the profile committee to work on it, taking into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? If you have any questions. Is it? I can hear voices, yes. Please sign up. Let me explain. People's deputy Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Roman Petrovich, you are one of the experienced parliamentarians in Ukraine. Please tell me this. In the practice of the work of the Supreme Council of the past, there have been many occasions when the Supreme Council has almost refused to consider any decisions of the international institutions to which it is a member. Thus, on April 5, 2000, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted special recommendations on the reintegration of Crimean Tatars. In the past, I, my colleagues, have tried several times to convince the Supreme Council to comply with this recommendation, but unfortunately we have failed. Tell me, please, if we adopt this law, and this concept is going to be approved, and it's going to be all specific, very clearly written down, you understand that there is already a name, let's say, that the very name will be the approach of one or the other political forces. What do you think are the mechanisms for implementing the accepted concept? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. Dear Rephat-aga, I would like to say, firstly, I fully agree with you on your statement, on the decisions of the Council of Europe, on the mechanisms that can guarantee that this concept will be implemented. In fact, the concept provides for approval at the level of our Parliament's so-called state-wide programme of adaptation to our legislation. This program should determine the size of the annual budget allocation for these needs. Therefore, the concept also provides for acceptance and approval again at the level of Parliament of the annual plan. So the work has to be systematized in this direction, and it's the guarantee that it's going to be done that's the norm in this law on the necessary and protected budget allocations for this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u63	People's MP, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u64	Sergey Glaucus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear reporter, you said in your report that this document is purely conceptual and does not contain normative provisions. Well, then, excuse me, tell me, please. We haven't had a law without regulations in 12 years in the practice of the Supreme Council. Well, there's no law in the legal system, there's no law in the legal system, there's no law in the legal system, there's no law in the legal system. If it's a concept, it's a concept, if it's a law, it's a law. Who is the author of this revolution, unknown in the world, so that the law does not contain regulations?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u65	Dear Sergey Petrovich, I didn't say anything about it if you've listened very carefully to the fact that the law does not contain any regulations. On the contrary, I said that the law does not contain any binding legal provisions. As a lawyer, you realize that there is a difference between one concept and another. Normative dispositions oblige certain actions or prohibit certain actions. Instead, the bill provides for the approval of the national program, that is, we are under an obligation, together with the government, to develop such a national program and submit it here for final approval. It will, in turn, have strict binding regulatory positions, and I have already spoken, particularly in the line of specific budgetary allocations. I can agree with you that it is precisely these positions that we need to strengthen in this law, which was also discussed at the committee meeting when this bill was being considered on our committee. And so it is suggested that you accept it in the first reading and have the committee just complete it, taking into account also your comments made in order to increase the normative disposition of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u66	National MP Boris Oilynik, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u67	Roman Mikhailovich is worthy of such a document and should be given due to you, you work purposefully. But I have a question for you. Should we, as it were, clarify the basics of foreign policy adopted back in 1993? Because on the basis of that, we're going to go into the "pioneers and commodores" mode forward on all sides -- we're going to do five in four years. That's why we need to re-establish these fundamental Peters of foreign policy, because now they're being treated, and they're being treated on all sides, and they're being treated as best they can. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u68	Dear Boris Illich, you know we've talked to you about this a number of times. And of course, our views, regardless of our ideological differences in this case, are completely consistent. I'm very happy that you just mentioned this Law on the Basic Directions of External Policy, which was approved back in the early 1990s, where there is no disposing norm at all, and where there are certain directions to our foreign policy. One can argue that such a law is challenged by just the right norm, which seems to be contained in article 92 of our basic law. But of course, when you look at the Law on the Basic Directions of Ukraine's Foreign Policy, a large part of those norms are in fact clearly out of date. So there is absolutely no doubt for me that we need to define a new law in this direction. The issue before the Supreme Council, as it is for me, is, of course, not the subject of this bill, or in order to fulfil the constitutional positions that I have discussed, it takes one legislative act, or it can be done in several legislative acts. In order to determine the issue, if you remember, in the past the call was made, if I am not mistaken, just members of your faction, the Law on the Basic Principles of Our External Policy, that is, where it was determined that there was a need for some kind of approval of such a law and mechanism and an object of knowledge of such a project. But I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please sign up. They're already in our possession. Chernobyl Taras, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! You know, I've read this concept, and I just have this idea, "Why do I need this?" It's not bad, it can't be called unacceptable, it can't be called something else. But it reminds me of the words of the holy writing, I literally don't quote, but to be good or bad, you're not, why you're not. There's no concept, there's no direction, there's no specific realization. Should we still be trampling on the level of concept? I can assure you that if we now accept this concept, the following positions, the specific program will probably be considered by the next call of the Supreme Council. Is that what we want? We don't really understand that the concept has been introduced, I think, with one single purpose -- so that we don't offer anything concrete and make a retreat to the European Commission, to someone else who requires something concrete from us. I think the Supreme Council, in this case, should simply refuse to hold this document, ask questions to the Cabinet of Ministers, give a protocol commission to the Committee on Euro-integration, prepare a normal targeted program. What should be on the program, we have heard very clearly today. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Rabbit, wrote very precisely and beautifully in the first part of his speech, that there should be in the law that we are offered, and that there is, unfortunately, nothing there. I'm not saying that the very direction of our integration to the East is more like a flugger, and that's what Boris Illich Oilynik said today, and I don't think we should stop at that anymore. My offer. The Supreme Council should prove a little bit more that we should respect ourselves, not accept documents that are essentially meant for just one -- to show that something in Ukraine is being done in some direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u71	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Parliamentarians! 10 years ago, our country -- Ukraine -- came to grips with its charters for the transition between Europe and Europe. And it feels like she's been hanging out there for 10 years. So it seems that Ukraine wants to go to Europe by lunchtime and to Eurasia after lunch. Our society kind of wants to go to Europe because our oligarchs love Europe so much, because there's a good way to hide money in banks, and then toss it somewhere else. We have, let's say, there and in Eurasian space, it's a lot harder to do that. Another category of people love Europe because our teachers, our engineers go there to wash dishes to earn a few times as much as the same engineers do here. I think that the lack of political will and indecision has virtually stopped Ukraine today. This is a case where, as a citizen of this state, I can envy Russia and the Russian leadership that has long been defined. Putin came here, who was probably throwing his finger at Ukraine all the time, that what you're doing in this Europe, why you're there in NATO, and who's practically brought Russia to NATO and Russia today, as it were, is already in NATO today, and we're still doing my esteemed colleague of the Rodionovs, whom I know, and again scares us here at NATO, and again we've got some sort of call here in the '60s. Why? Let's figure it out: is it for Ukraine, is it for our people, is it for our nation, our army? Let's just accept some kind of approval and not scare each other with these scarecrows. Russia has indeed taken a significant step in Europe today. We're hanging out today. Where are we? Who are we? We haven't figured it out yet. That's why I'm moving on to the question that we're discussing with you today. I say again, I like it today, some people are criticizing Putin that he, there, was speaking against Ukraine. And he's the President of Russia and I respect him for taking care of his nation. But if you'll excuse me, when my president goes to the Ukrainians in Lowerwartovsk and greets them, "Hello, Hochla! I'm your father, and Russia is your mother," so I don't know where we want or what we want. I conclude, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this law can be passed with great joy, this law can be taken with great joy. It's not going to change anything at all. We need to vote in the first reading, but in the second reading, we need to set very clear mandatory standards: when, by what time, and finally we need to figure out. If we don't, we can make paper cranberries out of this bill and put them in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u73	People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Please, the word for replication is Rodion's national MP, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u74	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I also have great respect for Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, and I know him well and respect him. But here's what I want to tell you about the introduction of Ukraine wherever it is. Ukraine is a state of its own. Vladimir Aleksandrović here speaks of Russia, where Russia is said to be an earthly paradise, Russia is also not an example for Ukraine. And if Putin's in there hugging these bums, let him hug himself. Ukraine has its voice, its place and, indeed, if we want to enter, we need to do the right thing, talking, as they say, in detail, asking people. And there is absolutely no reason to say today that joining NATO is good for Ukraine. It is already the good of Yugoslavia that it has received, will soon receive the following countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u75	People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? People's MP, Timoshenko's Block. He will be followed by a national deputy of the Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that I do not see so many of my fellow workers, I would like to address personally today the Head of the Supreme Council and the coreporters. For the first time in my parliamentary life, I am faced with this level of legal illiteracy. It's just wild! Here's a document called "law." And yet the co-reporter said that it doesn't contain normative positions, it contains conceptual positions. Well, people are good! Well, they teach law students in first grade, which is the legal norm. How so?Oh, my God! Well, we're going to get to the point where we're about to pass the law on the idea, the law on desire. Well, that's absurd, but the President of Ukraine brought it! Where is the legal service? And he supports the Ministry of Justice! People good, where did we go? To Europe, which is what the last "our Ukrainian" has said, which is not listening to me right now. But it doesn't lead to Europe, it's savagery, it's Asia! People good, I'm not talking about the meaning, I'm talking about the adaptation, I'm talking about the approximation, I'm talking about the approximation of the legal systems. But that's ridiculous! The other one. It's about getting closer to the legal systems. Is this a matter of legal policy or not? Perhaps there are no lawyers in the Office of the President, and perhaps there are no lawyers in the Committee on European Integration, then, Your Honor, I ask you, if this document is approved in the first reading, let the Committee of Legal Policy decide on the legal nature of this act because, indeed, the Supreme Council approved the concepts of judicial reform, the concept of the Constitution, but this was approved by a decision because it contained conceptual positions, not normative. Conceptual positions can never regulate legal relations; there are no legal entities under this instrument. Who are the parties to legal relations? Who Are Responsible? Remember, in Soviet times, the state plan for five years took on what? The ruling of the CPSC, the Council of Ministers, was the law. Yeah? But even there were specific rules: so much milk, so much bread, so much more pay. And those were specific figures. And there's no specific norm. Well, that's the kind of document I use to smoke a laugh. And I'm most outraged that it's coming from the President. I therefore agree that there is something to be done about bringing in legal systems. But I'm sorry, we've never seen such savagery in its form. So my proposal, as a draft law, is not to approve it, but to assign it, if it's about adopting the concept, of course, we need to work on it, and it's essential that the legal committee be involved in it, because the issue of adaptation is a matter of legal policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u77	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. A programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation is needed. I don't think anyone will deny in this room the need for such a program. This will help to move from imitation of the movement to Europe to concrete steps in this direction. But this bill is a copycat of the legislative activity. And I am absolutely in agreement with the deputy head, Yavorowski, with those who spoke here, is a copy of the legislative activity. And Cranwell said right, he was indignant that the Supreme Council should not be treated as a legislative body. Documents that are a copy of the legislative activity cannot be submitted. The Supreme Council adopts laws, regulations, programs, concepts. So let's be clear about the genre: if the bill, there should be an attribute to the bill. It's a legislative act. It's practically not here. If it's a concept, there's a particular feature of the genre again. Let's go according to the genre, give us the concept. If this is a program, let's take concrete steps, concrete steps that will be taken in time, we'll take the program. And this is nothing that's solved in anything. Something about something and nothing. That's why we're indignant. Not because we don't want to accept the bill. Give us the bill -- we'll accept it, give us the program -- we'll accept it, but we can't disrespect the Supreme Council by passing such bills. I propose to develop a national programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. If you give us that program, we'll be happy to do that, maybe not all the MPs will be happy to do that, but at least, I think you'll have 226 deputies and we'll vote for that program and we'll contribute to its practical application. And to the end. I understand the paphos of Yavorowski's performance, who said we weren't determined. And, indeed, Ukraine is imitating something like, it wants something, it doesn't understand what position it's in, it's also not clear to the European Union or Russia. I would say that Ukraine -- the gap between Europe and Asia, the Russian language -- is the gap. I don't think it's appropriate for us to be this part of the human body. Let's just define and act accordingly. The European Union is, the African Union has recently been created, well, I don't think we have a place in the African Union, after all, in the European Union. Finally. The European Union has not recognised Ukraine as a market economy country. I believe that Ukraine has given some reason for this. But I must say that the European Union's policies towards Ukraine and NATO to Ukraine have a lot of sleazyness. It's bastardism. Because they don't want us to go to European markets, they deliberately keep us in the state we're in, again, pretending to be good people for Ukraine. That's why I think we should talk to the European Union with dignity and say, "You're a jerk," if you're a jerk, that's what we call things our names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we do not, in our own words, demean our own country of Ukraine in which we live, especially since you have in the following words confirmed our attitude, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, the decision taken in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. You are looking at a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws: to provide agricultural products with fuel-oil materials. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Ivan Fedorovich Tomic. Ah, Kalinchuk, National Deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u80	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u81	Please follow the rules. Let's do it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u82	The introduction of this bill to the Supreme Council has led to a situation that has arisen in the market for material resources and especially fuel for agricultural producers and agricultural prices. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations held a meeting on this issue, at which the Minister of Agricultural Policy and Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration were informed. Regrettably, MPs have not received a clear answer as to what measures the government is taking to eliminate the price distortion of agricultural production and fuel. Reasons were called, but no proposals were made on the matter. That's the problem. During the last few months, fuel costs have increased considerably. Thus, average diesel prices rose by an average of 38 per cent, by 64 per cent, to gasoline. The technological need of agricultural producers for June-August amounts to 891,000 tons of diesel, and for autumn-field work in September-861,000 tons of diesel. The cost of agricultural products will increase by about 400 million dollars in June-August 2002 only for the purchase of diesel, and by 300 million dollars in autumn-field work, that is to say, by 700 million dollars. In addition, the cost of oil producers for A-76, A-80 will increase by 190 million dollars for the June period, and in September/November another 180 million dollars will increase by 360 million dollars for the 2002 harvest and autumn work period. Thus, the total damage to agricultural products from the increase in the price of oil products will be more than 1 billion dollars before the completion of the sale. In order to ensure the accumulation of oil products and to carry out timely field work, farmers are now forced to increase the production volume of livestock, including non-conditional and, above all, large cattle, is easy to carve. As a result, in May/June of this year there was a decrease in prices for the purchase of animal products in almost all regions. At 1 June of this year, the minimum prices for cattle of 1 ton were 30 to 37 percent lower than in 2001. Sales prices per pig per tonne fell by 40 to 48 percent. The situation in the dairy sector is similar. Last year, the average realisation price of 1 tonne of milk was 596 dollars, and in May 2002 it fell to 250 to 284 dollars, i.e. 50 to 53 percent. Today, the third - class wheat tin is 280-320 bracelets and does not exceed the cost. Such price mismatches lead to more and more damage to the grain industry. The expected loss of agricultural producers since September 2002 is estimated at about 2.5 billion dollars. The absence of the agricultural producers of the financial resources needed for the purchase of oil products can lead to the loss of some of the crops that have already been grown. With a view to creating favourable conditions for filling Ukraine's market with petroleum products, stabilizing prices for them, and for the continuous provision of agricultural products, it is appropriate to stimulate imports of petroleum products into Ukraine by partially entering the period July-November this year, i.e. by December 1, tax and customs benefits for diesel importers. The expected increase in diesel imports by the end of the year will be about 500,000 tons. With this exemption, excise duty imports will reduce revenues from these congregations by no more than 15 million euros, much less than the above-mentioned losses of the agricultural sector. It should also be noted that the exemption from excise duty will lead to the filling of the market with oil products, lower prices for them, which means increased demand for oil products. This will result in an increase in the volume of oil products, i.e. the amount of VAT and other taxes that will be paid to the budget, which will exceed the partial reduction in revenue from excise congregations. On the contrary, the lack of incentives to reduce the cost of oil products will lead to the fact that some of the crops that have already been grown will not be harvested, thus reducing taxes on the budget from agricultural producers and enterprises for the processing of agricultural products and the production of food products. In addition to crop harvesting, this will not allow the only fixed tax to be paid at the right time, and it will not allow the entire complex to be effected by harvesting, but also by the autumn complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u83	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u84	So I think tomorrow's vote on this bill will be a sign for the agrarians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u85	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. On the board, please. Nightshanko, national deputy, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u86	160 constituency. Dear reporter! Two days in a row, we talk about the village's problems all the time, and we operate very freely with concepts like "a farm worker," "a village needs," "a village needs to be given." Please tell me what kind of mechanism will be put in place today, so that a farmer who is working today, not on the property of a former farm, but on his own, comes at least one liter of this fuel. Because you said today about the price of pork, for beef, but you know that it's a product that's made in the private sector, not in "former" kolpspas. Were you on farms that were broken up, looted? So, please, what's going to be the mechanism?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u87	Thank you. I think you know very well that now agricultural producers -- I emphasize once again, agricultural producers -- are they a viable agricultural enterprise or are they an agricultural cooperative, whether it's a farm. They buy fuel either through the bases of our oil refineries, or at the fuel stations, you know that. If the price went down, and the price, by the way, was until January 1st, and even by May 1st, it was at the filling stations up to one bracelet of diesel fuel and we were there buying that fuel, no one was driving it. And now it's up. That's why we're going to buy where we bought it. And we're the only one who's making a proposal that this fuel would be much cheaper at the expense of the decline, on account of the imports into Ukraine of light petroleum products, where a competitive environment is being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u88	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u89	Thank you. You know, I want to continue the tone of the question about who's going to pay. And you have to understand the tone of anger about the kind of bills that are in this room, especially against the background of the tax pressures that are currently being felt by the industry, the metallurgical, the machine building complex, and so on. Please tell me, here in this room from 16.03 to 1.10., we have already passed a similar law with you, if you remember, that tax benefits were introduced in the import of heavy distillers and import duties, the value added tax, and the excise tax did not work. Please tell me, what effect did that have?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u90	Absolutely! And a significant effect. I have to tell you, my dear colleague and my dear friend, that over a period of 10 years, prices for material and technical resources and agricultural products have been disbursed from agriculture, 95 and a half billion dollars is the calculation of our Institute of Economics. And of course, the conditions that were created when we voted with you, and I thank you for that, we gave agricultural producers the opportunity to slightly improve their financial position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u91	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear reporter, would you please tell me the fuel at the price you're offering, the form of the benefits, will it reach the peasant? How confident are you that it will come and reach it at the same low prices that you are proposing? The benefits will be for those who trade in fuel, for the wholesalers, for those who import it on the fuel base across the border. But the farmer will continue to receive the prices at which the seller will offer him, and he will continue to be a buyer. It seems to me that it's just a simple question that's ridiculous, that's what makes it convenient to sell fuel at some point, but it doesn't make it cheap to produce peasants. This will not make it easier to buy fuel or lower its price to a peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u93	Thank you. I'd like, my colleague, to say that the point is that if we set up a payment regime for imports into Ukraine of light petroleum products, they will come to us. Now virtually light oil products in Ukraine do not go. Now there's oil that's being processed in processing companies that are in Ukrainian territory, so it's going to be possible not to help farmers, but to lower prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u94	National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u95	[[Semenyuk, Socialist faction]] . Dear colleagues, what's more, on the agrarian committee with you in February we were considering a similar law, but unfortunately, neither the board of directors nor the board of the Supreme Council listened. If the question had been accepted in February of that bill that my colleague Tsushko had passed, me and Sokerczak, today would not have been the case. How do you view the need to listen to opposition and make calculations, not when it comes to producing crops, but when it comes to thinking in February? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u96	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Of course, we need to make calculations in advance, predict the situation. But this is exactly the question that we asked the government representatives who were at the committee: why didn't we predict a situation that might arise before the harvest day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u97	Thank you. Time's up, thank you. The National Deputy Tsushko of the Committee on Finance and Banking is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u98	Respectable People's Deputies. I am speaking as a representative of the Committee on Finance and Banking, and I would like to briefly state that the Committee on Financial and Banking, as a committee in the field, has considered the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the law be rejected tomorrow in the vote. The draft order from our committee is given to you, and I will not waste any time and finish my report. The reasons why, all of you have asked questions, our committee believes that this bill will no longer help the villagers. And secondly, it will be of benefit only to the traders who bring it. One recommendation was to recommend to the Government and the Agrarian Committee, and to the Finance Committee, indeed, to make a proposal to the Parliament, which would help the peasant directly, so that GASM prices would not be at prices for agricultural products, as was the case this year. Thank you, I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up. Let me explain. National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u100	Thank you very much, the faction of the Company of Ukraine. Dear co-reporter, please tell me. Prices rose sharply, especially in the days leading up to the most important agricultural work. Do you think there's a difference in prices in who's pocketed?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u101	Those who trade GSM are bitter, oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u102	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u103	Please hand over Nikolaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u104	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u105	Nicolanca, the Socialist Party. Our faction has previously discussed the adoption of this law, and it understands that peasants today need to be stimulated somehow. But I have a few questions for you, Your Honor, Vasil Petrovich. The introduction of this law, how much will it take out of the budget, is it going to take out of the budget, how much will we make up for it, how will we do it all? And I wanted to ask you another question: what are the alternative steps that would still cost the price? I know you can say something about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u106	So it's different data, but they're saying that according to DPA, the budget is going to lose about 500 million bracelets. That's the data. How can they be compensated? You know, under the Tax System Act, any changes to rates are possible six months before the budget year, that is, there's a violation, so if we're adopting this law, we need to look at an immediate income line of the budget, discuss what to do. My opinion when I suggested that our committee was still the APC Committee. Here's my offer. Here you could go in such a way as to free, let alone, the excise collection is completely dissipated. Any distempered, sold in Ukraine. This could affect the price of diesel consumed by both peasants and other consumers, regardless of where they came from, either from Ukraine or from abroad. It's kind of an option. But in fact, the issue needs to be worked out and passed, not as we have now adopted even the proposed agrarian colleagues, and I am also an agrarian, it is proposed a black frame, that is, partial after the attack on the peasants. I don't know, at least I'm looking at the experience of Canada that there's dysphoric that's being delivered to the peasants in red. Well, there were experts from our CIS who came and started chasing him. But that's another question, crime. But what is being stimulated in the world is being stimulated. We need to decide how to make the fuel available to the villagers because the APC rapporteur, distinguished colleague Kalinchuk, said that parity is still in the process of passing the net with the village today. But it is this approach that our committee has rejected, because it is not helping and is now being budgeted. [[I'm not speaking for myself. I'm speaking for myself.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u107	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u108	Please give me the word of Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u109	People's MP Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear reporter, I ask you very much on behalf of our part and the group together not to give up, for more fornication than. Every year it's the same song: it's the same song, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing every year, it's the same song, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing. Of course, under the laws of the market, this fuel will be where it is more convenient, and in which there are no producers. And this is supported only by the fact that the agrarian barons will drive the same farmers even more. There's a free market and there's the price of filling. I know that those people and those enterprises are free who have overcome the administrative pressure of the agrarian lobby, they have long had and prepared for the harvest. And by the way, your predecessor said that the price of the third grade 200, that's not true -- it's already 500 today. You should not have lost the agrarian reform you were carrying out, remember when the government of Yushchenka would have made a price, and it was only necessary to collect in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u111	Please make up your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u112	I agree with you, I don't give up, I report the Committee's decision, and I repeat my opinion that if we're going to support the peasants, it must be addressed to this fuel, if we give it, or a grant, as it is done in Germany, that for a hectare of pastures at the beginning of the year, specific money is allocated to the account and the farmer is in charge. Now, that might give us a general drop in price, but that's what the same middleman will earn. I don't believe it'll get to the village. That's what I said. And the Committee's opinion is once again: to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u113	Thank you. Time's up, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. People's Deputy Demyohin, People's Rule Group. He's sick, but someone wrote him down. National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, Ukrainian Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I realize that there is little prospect in this law, judging by the mood in the hall. And it's really anachronism in the middle of the year to interfere with the rules of the game, to change tax legislation, to change the budget, but to introduce some benefits. I want to say that last year, in this room on June 6, 2001, of the 276 deputies who were present in the hall, 274, that is, almost 100%, including the agrarians who were present, voted in favour of repealing the relevant agricultural promotion law by 2004, which provided for this very norm that we are discussing today. We went to this, the peasants, an unprecedented step, because we understood, we were running national oil refineries, these are also jobs. Better to recycle the raw material in your homeland, then trade the finished product. But we had a clear agreement, fixed by the signatures of oil producers and agrarians in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, where it was clearly written that the diesel price would be stable, constant and consistent, and favourable to agriculture. And you saw the year 2001 as a witness, the whole year price was stable, it was within one bracelet per letter at all bays. And we had a perfectly favourable normal situation. What happened right now? They say she changed the rules of the Russian game. But it was clearly said from high government rostrums that the price would change by 10 to 15 percent. The price has changed one and a half times. Now let's look briefly at the economy. In 2001, we had 40 million tons, the price for a ton of third class about 500, the profitability of the grain was 40 percent, because not everything was sold by the third class and not everything was sold at all. We had a drinkable fuel weight in the structure of self-sustainability, of course, the highest. We had the lowest wage for 2001 in agriculture, but we had a less favourable economy, even profitability, once again, 40 percent. This year, 2002, the transitional residues of 5 million tons of grain are almost an annual need of the state. The grain market stands, there's no price. National Deputy Zubec Mikhailo Vasilovich is present in this room, the president of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences just from Odessa. Second wheat, third class, 280-320 bucks a ton, and no one takes it. The grain market is standing. The cost of 280 last year is likely to be higher, for self - worth will necessarily change by increasing the price of fuel. So, dear fellows, there is no silence in this respect of agriculture either. There is a way out. We can not change the rules of the game over the year, but go back. In addition to what my fellow national deputies have proposed, these are sound proposals for State support, one that is still abroad. But we can go back and now, including today, to the practice of last year -- sit at the negotiating table. We have the harvest, the bread we want is good and cheap. Let's think about the peasant. At a table of negotiations to decide the price of diesel, we don't talk about gasoline, it might be more or less agreeable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u115	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u116	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Let us consider why such questions arise in Parliament and why it is at a critical time for the village to gather bread and other produce of the village. What had not been known before that there would be a harvest? For the first time in years, these questions arise: "How do we provide fuel-oil materials for the village during the harvest?" Did such decisions cost a farmer the value of fuel to Parliament? Do such decisions promote the better work of domestic producers? And by the way, the harvest is long overdue. As long as it's fuel, it's going to drive, it's going to be on the street in September of the month, it's going to be practically nothing, it's not going to have any effect on the price. This is why there are so many. And I'm also surprised that this question is being lobbyed by people, not by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, but by the people in this room. To my profound conviction, the decision of the Parliament that we are offered will not waste the fuel for the village, but will only allow the interested importing structures to increase their profits and also reduce the income portion of the budget. According to the report itself, the budget will lose about a billion dollars, domestic factories this year have increased diesel production by 1.7 times over the same period last year. I wonder where it is today. It is. It is just waiting for us to make our decision today. If such questions are to be resolved, they must be thoroughly prepared, calculated, and, if the benefits are right and given, given to their own producers, namely, fuel directed to the village, which will really contribute to the cost of agricultural production. You can think about and probably need other steps that really support the village, not individual business groups and their lobbyists. This issue has also been considered on the Committee on Budgets and has not been approved either. Therefore, I believe that the bill must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u117	National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u118	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I agree with the previous speakers and the rapporteurs who are moving them today as actors in the adoption of this law, first of all, the pain for the situation in the agro-industrial complex, for the fate of our peasants and for the fate of our entire Ukraine. The fact that today’s situation is critical is acknowledged by all. Look just today at the price of buying and bread, it's practically at least twice as low as it needs to be. [[digits were called]] But look at the other prices. It is both milk and meat, which is also critical today and does not even cover the costs that peasants bear for producing this product. I spent almost seven days in my district recently and went to dozens of farms in Hersonian. I want to say that in the South, in the Crimea, in the Hersonian region, in other areas of the South, the situation has worsened and, especially, is now a terrible drought. For example, in the Hersonian region, there was a period of nearly 63 days when there was no drop of rain. Almost all the vegetation was lost, and the winter held on to the last forces and crops in some areas up to 10 centrifuges per hectare, and some farms virtually did not collect crops because it was not possible to collect them in individual fields. In the whole world, a peasant does not live without the care of the state, without subsidies. The EU has 60.70 per cent, up to 80 per cent, in the structure of its agricultural enterprises. We're also worried about our country today, for our peasants, because virtually price distortions, the lack of cheap loans leads to the fact that peasants are virtually bankrupt. Against this background, we have introduced a new Earth Code, which I believe is illegally adopted in the Supreme Council, and at the same time we do not have just enough trade in land. With regard to this bill. We have briefly discussed this situation with our colleagues in faction, and we feel that something needs to be done, of course, in order not to be alone. It's clear we're not going to make it to harvesting, but there's going to be autumn work and there's going to be a huge amount of work. So there may be different options that Basil Tsuko said it would be an exception to the excise congregation for all! Because if we just cancel the oil products today -- it's an excise assembly, VAT and customs assembly -- it's not an exception that today Lukoil is still being processed in our factories, it's going to be transported outside of Ukraine, then it's going to be imported, or it's going to be on the same oil plant, but we're going to have to give it back 20 percent of the VAT. So they're going to live on the next day and the peasants won't get anything. So I think, in general, in order to get this conversation started, you could vote in the first reading and then sit down at the round table with the government and find compensators. Because if 300 million are out of the budget, how will the budget go? So we need a dialogue and an immediate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is spent discussing the matter. The decision on this point will be made on Thursday. Time, please, Michael Antonovich, time is up. What, what? Oh, come on, here's a proposition. Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I don't have time to reason, I want to start with a proposal. I want to remind people that every year we go back to this question, and so that we don't accept it, we give benefits in the light, prices go up; we give oil benefits, prices go up. So the problem is not when and how. So there are two concrete measures: the experience of developed countries and the experience, by the way, of the United States. When they had problems with the oil, the energy, they controlled prices for 10 years. It's a market country in the United States. So we need to get the Cabinet of Ministers to make proposals so that the Antimonopoly Committee will include that there are prices created by a monopoly because we have a monopoly on supply. That's the first one. The other one. To propose a bill on regulating energy prices. And we should have something that, starting from spring to autumn, we should have a moratorium on price increases, otherwise we will never get agriculture out of this gap. This time. And most importantly. We need to get into work right away and organize an alternative source of energy supply. Russia has to put at least 33-32 percent of the energy supply, then there will never be any problem. And if we depend monopolistically on one source, there will always be these problems, there will be no independence, and there will be no agriculture. That's the first one. And the second. We need the government, we've already talked about this, to propose a price parity mechanism. There's got to be a pattern like this all over the world: one liter of diesel fuel -- one kilogram of grain, one liter of petrol -- one kilogram of milk. And we get ten times worse. Therefore, respectable ones need to be given proper authority to put an end to it once and for all. Today, lobbying is known for who. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u121	The discussion is concluded, the decision will be taken in accordance with the Rules on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the name of rural fire protection is being introduced. Report by the Head of the State Department of Fire Safety, Reva Grigory Vasilovich, please. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u123	I'm very short. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Ukrainian Laws, which has been developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in connection with the need to bring two laws into line with the requirements of the Budget Code, is the Law on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and on Fire Safety. The adoption of this bill aims to resolve the following questions. First. This is the completion of the formation of the State Fire Service as the only type of public service in the field of fire safety, the preservation of existing units of professional fire protection and the resolution of the issue of financing them. As you know, since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Code of Budgets since early 2002, legal grounds have been revoked for the maintenance of occupational fire protection units from local budgets. However, article 45 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year gives the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, city, district, village and rural councils the right to pay for the maintenance of professional fire protection from local budgets. In order to ensure the financing of occupational fire protection units, starting the following year, it is proposed that, without increasing the number of interior ministries, the funding of the State Budget should be provided to the 14.9 thousand free-employed workers of the professional fire department who have so far been funded from the district budgets. Secondly, taking into account the creation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Departments with the rights of government authorities in a separate direction of service, the bill amends the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thirdly, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act to replace "rural fire protection" with "local fire protection" as provided for in the Ukrainian Budget Code. As you know, during the reform of the agricultural sector, changes in ownership and the destruction of agricultural enterprises, the new name will correspond to the structure and sources of financing for this type of fire protection. The draft bill was approved by the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement. Please support the draft bill, as its implementation will allow us to preserve professional fire protection in the 545 cities of our country, which provides fire protection for all regions. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u124	The question to the reporter is, are there any respectable colleagues? Yes. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please. I can't see anymore. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u125	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Gregory Vasilovich, there are a few questions. First. Local self-government is also, as stated in the Constitution, both districts and areas. By recording local fires in this way, does it not mean that we will not have a rural network as such, even, say, one fire crew for several villages? The second question. Please tell me, does this whole reorganization you're proposing increase or decrease the pressure on local budgets? And in what way will they feel it? So please give me the answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u126	Got it. First question. The point is, the Budget Code says that the city is a fire department. That is why we today bring the law of fire safety into line with the Code of Budgets. But this does not mean that there will be no fire protection in the countryside. Today in the country, we need 6,000 831 village fire teams. But in view of the collapse of the colgassies, the raspberries, the new owners of the earth and the absence of a mechanism to date, we will give the rural area the right to decide the issues, the locals, the bill on the creation of fire protection in places. It's not a state fire department, come on. It's different. No, that's how you know it's local law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u127	Please answer the questions, not discuss them, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u128	I'm not arguing. I haven't answered yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u129	Just give me the answer. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u130	Second of all, what you said. During the 10 years of independent Ukraine, professional fire protection was financed from the state budget, which was delegated to the district and the district to the district. So today, when the code says what is forbidden, we bring answers, and many complaints will not be made, which deputies are told that professional fire protection, which is part of the State Fire Protection System, is being financed worse today, but all costs are being allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u131	Thank you. People's deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u132	[[Semenyuk, Socialist faction]] . Dear Gregory Vasilovich, our faction will support the bill, but I have one question for you. How does the issue of ownership relate to those collective holdings that were handed over to fire trucks today, to the law that you represent today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u133	Well, really, these were the cases where, when the earth was being ripped apart, the fire cars were also being passed on to property, so the changes to this law would be, I think, the point of these issues. It's going to get a lot better.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Please. The People's Deputy, the Communist faction, followed by the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. [[Faction of the Company of Ukraine, Doroguntsov]] . Dear Grigory Vasilovich, please tell us, what is the gap in the amount of the dissuasive damage resulting from the fire protection activities, if any, and the cost, if we combine these two sums, to maintain the fire protection? And a small remark: The colposia did not break up, but they were deliberately destroyed. Do you understand? And the better forms have not yet been found, and it's not around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u136	So to date, State Fire Protection funding is 28 percent. As for the damage, the damage. 28 percent before the regulatory need to finance the State Fire Department. As for the damage, the damage was financed several times in 2002, the funding was 275 million dollars, and the damage was several times the cost of maintaining fire protection, many times the cost, I don't realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u137	People's Deputies, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u138	Gregory Vasilovich, my farm where I worked, was a millionaire. We were in the household: the head of the PSO, four fighters. They went to the district and circuit races, where they took their first place. Plus, there were young volunteer firemen. Today, with the collapse of the farm on two WTO farms, society is irresponsible. For days on fire in the farm of the former ZAV-20(?) and ZAV-40(?). The farmers know it's for cars and for them to be installed today, it takes 600 to 700 thousand. These irresponsible societies do not have such funds. And what are we going to do to clean the grain? There was a fire engine and she said she was already putting up with it. So the fire engine has at least forty years of service because we have a village in the country that could have five thousand just passed away and they have destroyed it too because we have to pay the firefighters. How this law can today oblige these irresponsible companions to set up a car to be held accountable for what has burned. This nation’s good has been burned. If it's by law, it's my pie up there, it's John, it's Stephen up there. And no one is responsible for that. This law should state that you took the lead on the earth, took the responsibility for property, and should be held criminally responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u139	I got it. The adoption of this law, the very definition of the concept of "city of fire protection" will create the necessary legal basis for the creation and development of non-State fire protection units on the ground. So this will be the exact mechanism that the local authorities are waiting for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u140	Thank you, Gregory Vasilovich, for your time to answer the question. Thank you, sit down, please. Thank you. For the purpose of this report, the Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Sergey Grigorovich Sinchenko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! The Legislature Committee unanimously supports the adoption and amendment of the bill. This calls for today’s time. I could stop at that, but I'll say a few words. These questions here show that rural reform, the so-called reformation, has led to the total destruction of all fire extinguishers in the countryside, and now there is nothing there. And this law can in any way correct, in principle, the possibility of rightfully improving the position of action. That's one question. And the second one I'd like to stop at. The thing is, in our market economy and the fire department, they started to raise money instead of making money. Collect money using the authority of all these inspectors who take their signatures and take very much. Not much, considering that the head of the state department, Gregory Vasilovich, is here, I would say that firefighters use it even politically. Well, it's such a small example. In Luhansk there is such a city called Dangerous. He's coming to Ukraine's Dangerous People's Deputy Natalia Vitrenco, you know, an active national MP. Two houses of culture in Dangerous, At the same time, he closes the fire inspector for repairs, literally before he arrives. Well, it's a small one, they say, little one, I'm not, there, a supporter of Natalia Mikhailovna, but I think it's time to put an end to this practice. As for this decision, I ask the Supreme Council to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u142	Thank you. Is there a question? Please, 2 questions, I can see: the People's Deputy of Mishur and the People's Deputy of Dorogunts. National MP Mishur, Communist faction. And the people’s deputy, Matthew, is still, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u143	Mishur, the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, I haven't been able to ask the general a question, I'd like to ask you. Very often, he speaks of the need to create nonstate fire departments. Well, I understand that. Let's say that if it's non-State medicine -- that if your tooth is sick, you have the money -- I'll get it out if, let's say, non-State fire protection -- means you have the funds to pay for this fire to be extinguished -- we'll put it out, and no, let's just say it! How do you feel about this? It has to be brought back to normal!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u144	Valery Dmitrovitch, well, we have a market economy. An enterprise manager who has no ability to maintain fire transportation, employees, makes a deal with an organization. For example, I understand this function of fire protection. She wasn't state-owned either, but she was national, she was general. And now, unfortunately, there's no such thing. There's bells. So, basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u145	National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u146	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Droguntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, do you think that the mechanism laid down in the law is sufficient to create such a non-State fire service? And is it enough to act? Am I going to have to make a deal after it burns everything in me? Then there's the deal. Well, are there any rules that would make this mandatory? There's a fire crew in the village that could be at the fire site in 10 minutes. And if it's called from Kiev, it's not going to happen, we're going to lose the car, and it's going to burn good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u147	Sergei Ivanovich, well, you're going out for consideration of our law. I'd like to answer that. We're looking at a question here. We used to have rural fire protection, and now there's no such definition in the Budget Code. We have a territorial, local fire department. And financial compensation goes to the local. And what you're asking, it's about, I think, problems, but not this law. And I'm reporting on the name of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u148	National MP Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u149	Matthew, the Communist faction. What is called market relations in Ukraine has nothing to do with the market. You know what I mean. It's not a market, it's a market. You will explain to me how the situation will develop. So there are two territorial communities that are adjacent to each other. In one community, there was a massive fire. From another community, they'll either go there or they won't go, and they'll say it's our business. Who will handle all these issues, that is, relationships. Will there be any dissertation of the entire farm? So, who's even going to be responsible? We can't put fire and man in a market relationship. Because it's not exactly the same conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u150	Thank God, Vladimir Yosifovich, that the market economy is now in the yard, but the fire department doesn't pay attention. That's why fire is a natural disaster. He's cut off from the world. So, well, we still have the inertia that was before. Everyone's going to the fire as soon as possible. This begins with a local, if any, and ends with an area, and if not enough, regional forces and railways, and departments, etc., are involved. That is why I would answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u151	Any more questions? None. Thank you. Is there anything you'd like to do? No one signed up for the show. Let us consider that we have completed our consideration of the matter. We'll decide on Thursday's vote on the decision. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Income Tax Act. Reporters: Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich, will be followed by Deputy Minister of Finance Juško Igor Olegovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Veretennikov Viktor Aleksandrovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Kingsov Oleg Anatoliyovich according to the bills tabled. Please. Dear colleagues, with regard to the question you have missed, I want to inform you. I've asked and transmitted several times to Sergey Makarovich for the report to be given to you. Sergey Makarovich says that the report is handwritten, that it can be delivered, then handed out. If you don't mind, we'll listen to the report after that. But obviously a document, some draft decision should be present in the hall and distributed to you. If that's not the case, I don't think the question is quite prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u152	Thank you. Please count those seconds to me, too. Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law on Taxation of the Income of Individuals registered under number 1111. I will briefly stop at the history of this long - suffering law. Its first version appeared in 1996 in what is called an economic growth package. The Supreme Council set up a special working group to work on a project that was later accepted in 3 readings and transferred to a third reading. It's been five years since then. In 2001, the law entered an integral part of the so - called Small Tax Code, and a new draft law was introduced after it was not supported by a group of national deputies. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the then Ministry of Finance, which did not want any change, the law was not adopted either. Finally, using the gains of a five-year paper, an appropriate bill was introduced in May of this year, which is now being discussed. I'm not going to try to explain why we have to change the citizens' income tax system, everybody knows about it. Allow me to stop at the conceptual positions of the project and in view of the introduction by the government of an alternative bill in differences between these bills. First. This project is based on such statements. A citizen's income tax is the only tax that has a marked social orientation. This tax should apply only to income that exceeds the minimum cost of a citizen’s life. This tax should be progressive in principle: higher incomes - greater removals. Applying a non-progressive rate leads to a very dangerous phenomenon -- the rapid spread of society and the creation of a dynamic capital. A higher rate should be set at a level that would compromise the interests of a person who earns income and the interests of a society that uses taxes for its needs. To the extreme, one tax axiom should be maintained: the top rate cannot be significantly lower than the corporate tax rate. Otherwise, tax planning will be applied when a natural person makes himself an LTD. The law should allow for the reduction of total income by individual types of expenditure, or, as it is commonly called, by the amount of tax credit. Tax credit should include health, education, and living expenses. The accounting of such expenses is based on a well-known claim that "the right to life, the roof over the head and the education of children cannot depend on the condition of the wallet." The other one. Both bills are based on the five-year work of MPs of the 3rd Parliamentary Appeal. That is, my name under this project is quite conditional. It is followed by hundreds of hours of discussions, a version of projects developed by many specialists. The global difference between the ideologies of projects is only one: the government is trying, without reducing the tax press to the majority of the population, to expand the tax base, and the MPs are trying to introduce incentives to legalize wages, and thus to expand the tax base while increasing social standards. Third, at our committee meeting, the finance minister, who will report after me, defined this project as a law for the poor, and the Kabmin law as a law for the middle class, which is intended to support the poor. According to the committee, the situation seems to be quite the opposite: this project, which I'm reporting on, offers to provide for the low-income and middle-class and create incentives for the legalization of large incomes. And the Cabinet of Ministers is trying to keep high taxes on small and medium incomes, which, according to statistics, are more than 80 percent of our citizens, to drastically reduce large incomes. You have in your hands an explanatory table before this project that shows that today's system gives us 13 percent of what we like to calculate, what happens when we apply the rules of the current decree at the income of 212 dollars, when we apply the Kabina project standards at the income of 1,000 dollars, and this project at 2,100 dollars. Here's an answer for who's protecting the middle class and who's not protecting it. Fourth, we can talk as much about this tax as we can by manipulating its rates. However, the main indicator of the legalization of wages is the so - called fiscal cost of the labour force, in other words, how many employees, the hired worker, have to pay taxes collectively so that the employee receives a net salary per hand. Let's say the average wage of a middle-class worker is 2000 dollars per month. According to the operating system, the fiscal cost is 1,320 dollars, according to the Kabmin project 1100, under this project 720. For low-income citizens who receive a salary of 400 dollars, the project will have a tax rate of 7 percent, a Kabminian tax rate of 20 percent, and an operating system of more than 2.4 times. This is the indicator of the legalization of the income of the population. The fifth, turning to the problem of social standards, is taking the first step toward social justice in taxation. He sets an untaxed minimum of 120 bracelets per month, so much for a child, so much for a student; for classically-injured persons - veterans, disabled persons, blackbacks, repressives, and so on - 240 bracelets per month. In other words, the project liberates these people from humiliatingly apologizing to officials for various compensations and indirect benefits, and the state from holding an army of such officials who today collect taxes from small incomes and then try to pay them back through an imperfect system of social harassment. We realize that even 120 bracelets do not match the real value of a person’s life. However, this is the first decisive step to balance an untaxed minimum with a surplus. Let's do this first step. The ideaology of a government project is, as it were, absolutely perpendicular: by halving the taxation of the rich, the government project proposes to set an untaxed minimum of 24 dollars, i.e. by 7 dollars more than there is today. What does this mean from an economic and social point of view is difficult to explain. That is, we have to decide whether a Ukrainian citizen with an untaxed minimum of 120 dollars will still have to have a 24-year tax. Six. The main argument against the project under discussion is that its implementation will cost 7 billion dollars and the government only 3.6 billion dollars and the local budgets will suffer. A few conclusions can be drawn. The first is mathematical. The figures presented are incorrect, since the implementation of this year's plan of revenue from this tax of 11 billion 237 million dollars and the introduction of the law's lowering of the budget income from this source will amount to 3 billion 484 million dollars, which is only 284 million dollars more than planned in the government project. In general, to say that this law reduces the income of the budget by more than 7 billion dollars in total planned income of 11 billion is pointless, since the revenue structure indicates an increase, not a decrease, over the next 12 months. I don't want to tire you, my dear colleagues, with extra econometrics, but I do point out that when we adopt the Kabmin concept, we don't encourage society to legalize its income, and when we adopt this project, the incentive is decisive. If you don't mind, it'll be two more minutes -- and I'm done. It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u153	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u154	Regrettably, the budget of the Cabinet of Ministers, which plans to spend on the implementation of this bill, does not include an increase in income from other taxes. In indirect taxes alone, the income of the budget will increase by an estimated $1 billion,750 million. We're all aware that if a person today gets more wages on his hands, he won't take it to the banks. Where's she going? She's going to go to the store, she's going to spend it, she's going to pay tax on the added value, excise taxes, and stores are going to pay taxes on the profits of businesses. Regrettably, the Ministry of Finance does not provide for an increase in income from such taxes. Conclusion third and last. The executive authority, to me personally, does not want any change in the taxation of citizens' incomes or is afraid of being unprepared for the introduction of such new rules. Among other things, the Budget Code allows for a flexible response to underfunding in the budget of the territorial communities. We have a tool for inter-budget transfers and local budget subsidies. The government’s tax system for small and medium - size businesses will destroy the already fragile system of survival. We must be aware that by the end of this year Parliament is obliged to lay the foundations for fiscal support and control over this important segment of our economy. However, this should be done in a separate law regarding small business after numerous public discussions. This law creates a powerful investment resource for Ukraine. That is why dividends taxed on their payments should not be included in any income of their payee, and reinvested incomes should also be exempt from that tax. By the way, it's not a government project. I would like to point out that in the President's letter to the Supreme Council, the issue of improving the investment climate is one of the main areas. Sadly, the Ministry of Finance may not have read the message. Next, about interest. Interest on deposits should be taxed as their release creates a tax sprite. But how. This project proposes to distinguish interest received from small deposits of normal people in a normal bank from interest, which is the main source of income of a person called the Rantje. In the first case, such interest on the project is proposed to be taxed at a rate of up to five percent when paid. In other cases, add to the scale. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers is offering to tax interest even on small deposits, and at large, at the same rate is ten percent. That's why we're going to discriminate against a small investor who wants to maintain some savings for the purchase of a new apartment, a new car, or for these savings to live to the next salary. And finally the tenth. Bills vary in detail, which in practical life spoil the lives of normal citizens. For example. This project, which I report, exempts from taxation and includes the tax credit for teaching children and students, allows you to deduct from income documentation and expenses for treatment, parental burial. The Cabinet of Ministers doesn't see this coming. In order to give taxes to a member of his or her family, a government project requires a donation agreement and his or her notary certificate. Ours isn't. Well, imagine, you give your child a bicycle and you have to go to the notary, on a government project, and make a notary. The alimony that is voluntarily paid by one of the parents who provides for our Family Code, our family legislation, will be taxed under the Cabinet of Ministers project if there is no court decision. This project frees them from taxation. If a foreigner has paid the cost of treating a taxpayer, this cost should be included in the income of a patient under the Kabmin project. Under this project, it's not taxed on some exceptions, if there are any questions, I'll answer for which. Donor income is limited by giving blood and breast milk and does not provide for other types of donation. According to the Kabmin operation project, let's say we have a very large demographic problem, other kinds of artificial increase in fertility, according to the Cabinet of Ministers project, taxed; the project is exempt. Professional contributions, contributions to the JEK and similar structures are being released to charities; according to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, they are taxed. Payments from the mandatory health insurance fund under the project are exempt; the Kabminu project is taxed. And finally. It may seem that I have used too much social justice or social protection in this report. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not. My heart is closer to the principles of liberalism. However, as the advertisement says, "feel the difference." Feel the difference between social populism and social justice, so between the Cabinet of Ministers project and this project that I'm reporting today. Our committee has decided to support this project. We have not considered two projects that will be considered after the government's consideration, for the reason that these projects were reported in violation of the Rules, they did not contain calculations, they are meant for the Richter project and the Verethennikov project. So I think tomorrow we have to determine our position between support or this project or government project. The committee also proposes to reject the Cabinet of Ministers project. I hope that my report was honest, and on behalf of our committee, I propose that we take this project as a basis and deal with the subjects of the legislative initiative by October of this year, so that we can make some kind of good move towards our citizens from January 1st of next year. This is also supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up. Let me explain. National Deputy Kaletnik, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u156	Cage, European Choice Group, 15 constituency. Please tell me, did you keep in your bill the notion of "untaxed minimum" and did you consider the categories of 10 percent tax?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u157	Thank you. That's a very good question. Unlike the government's project, we have, starting from the end, preserved the current tax system for small and medium-sized businesses. The government project proposes to destroy it and force it. pay VAT, some social contributions and so on. We're keeping it. Regarding the non-taxed minimum. In my report, I noted that such a category in this project is preserved and expanded. We think that an untaxed minimum should exist as a social, if you want, social standard. In our project, it is set at 120 dollars and is subject to annual inflation indexation. In the Cabinet project, the untaxed minimum is set to 24 dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u158	Thank you. National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u159	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell me, Your Honor, Sergey Anatolyevich. I have two questions. First. Why do you suggest, well, it's a well-known category, untaxed at least, and why don't you base the minimum wage or the minimum minimum wage. These two categories, I think it would be logical to base non-taxation on just the minimum wage that is now being offered by some deputies next year at a higher level than today, much higher. That's the first question. The second question. Would you say, as a percentage of other sources of income from the State Budget, what is the place of taxes on individuals? And one more question, even though I promised to stop for two. You said our bill was for the poor, your bill. You said high school, I'm sorry. And the Cabinet of Ministers for the poor, right? What about the rich? I didn't hear anyone insult the rich around here. So how do we make the main tax burden carry the rich, not the medium and the poor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u160	Thank you. All three questions are very interesting. Conferences can be held from the appearance of one or the other concepts. Let's do the last one. That's a very interesting question. I don't know if I can see it or not. Is that clear? You see, the yellow line is the total elimination of taxes on our bill that I report. Red is what the Cabinet of Ministers is offering. And blue is what exists today. What's the difference? You see, on this segment, up to 300 bracelets, which is actually up to 400 bracelets right over here. That's our living minimum. And look, on the red scale, it immediately starts to go from 8 percent and to grow progressively. On our scale, it's growing a little bit to reach its peak here. There are faults here. Next, if you run this graph, the yellow one is more than the red one, where the income is more than 6,000 dollars a month. That's why we tend to, in fact, people who have small or medium incomes. What did the government do? He leaves 24 bracelets of an untaxed minimum, that is, nothing. This indicator doesn't mean anything, does it? But it doubles the existing large income tax. We're saying that proportionality should be maintained. There is a principle in this tax solidarity between the rich and the poor in order for the middle class to grow. And all economists know that very clearly. As to the second question. Income, tax revenue. I'm sorry, profits from natural persons take second place after VAT. About 11 billion budgeted this year, a little bit more, this source. Once again, the position of the government that will report now, I'm prejudiced, because I'm the first to get out, in a less favourable position I'm in, is going to talk about putting 120 dollars in an untaxed minimum leading to minus 7 billion. That's absolutely wrong, because in terms of revenue structure, up to 2,000 dollars per month, we get 62.3 percent of the population, which gives us less than 20 percent of the revenue from that source. Less than 20 percent! The rest are given by people who pay. They're getting higher incomes. So you can't say it doesn't make sense and it's not justified statistically. And finally the first question, I'm sorry, about. Why not a minimum wage? Okay. We do. Dear National Deputies! We have a standard -- it's a minimum of living. We have to move on to this standard. What we've proposed is the first decisive step, that's 120 dollars. We can't put a really untaxed minimum of 320 dollars right now for one reason -- there's a problem with filling local budgets and we have a little bit of a break in. First of all, get the profits legalized. And after their legalization, raise the untaxed minimum to the standard of living. This is the normal practice of all countries. Normal countries, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u161	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u162	I thank you very much and ask you to support the position of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have yet to consider the matter if we have 45 minutes of brothers, 25. I would ask those who speak to follow the rules and to be concise. Minister of Finance of Ukraine Igor Olegovich Jusko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm very grateful to Sergey Anatolyovich, who spent most of his time analyzing the government bill before he reported it, it's very nice. So there's something to talk about, let's say. You know, there's no more terrible lie than a mixture of truth and lies. Unfortunately, what we're hearing right now is an extract of what's been going on for, really, the last five years, and, in fact, what can't be accepted in some circumstances that I want to say a little bit less. I wasn't working with this bill when I was a national MP. But the only thing I can agree with the previous speaker is that this is really a matter of extreme importance, in terms of social interest, social expectation, in this direction of reforming the Ukrainian tax system. Since I didn't do this bill, I don't have the burden of theoretic, so to speak, of office workload on this particular issue. The first thing I did personally when I came to work at the Ministry of Finance was in January this year, and I asked my colleagues, "Tell me, please, what do people think about reforming the income tax?" And we did, together with the Institute of Economic Research and the Institute of Social Research of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, together, at my own initiative, we did a working group, we did a survey. And just as the election campaign was going on, in February, this poll was given out, well, if you can, to the market or to society. 7,000 respondents said that they actually expect tax reform to take place soon in our society, in our country. Among the surveyed are both hired workers, and managers of large businesses, and small businesses, and medium, and shade, and the world, and so forth. I don't have, unfortunately, a regulatory time to prove in very detail all the analysis or results that we've got, because this is a completely unique study that we haven't done before, and I'm not sure that we can do it again anytime soon. I can say that the concept that comes from the government that I personally worked on in the government is actually based on two things. The first is what society expects, and the second is real things, what we can do next year and what we have to do later. Based on this, on the reality of the approaches, I want to offer you the following things. One of the most interesting things we learned when we got the results of the survey is that 46 percent of the population supports, not surprisingly, a fixed tax on individual income. I found this very hard to understand, from the point of view of social logic, because it is perfectly wise for those who earn less to pay less, for those who earn more to pay more. I can find out, only by influence, indeed, of the media about what happens in Russia after applying the fixed tax itself. But the poll was quite interesting, and we were able to figure out who these people were. Who are these 46 percent of the population who responded in this way? We defined them as people who define themselves. Not us, and they define themselves as people, as they are, or as they try to become the middle class. I mean, they have ambitions and social activity, and, most importantly, they have ambitions of economic activity. I mean, it's actually those people who aren't sitting around waiting exclusively for help, they want to work, they want to make money, and they want the state to make the most favourable conditions for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we have 45 minutes to discuss. We've been out for half an hour. Please, just a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u166	I want to say the next thing. There was also a question in the questionnaire, which tax would be acceptable to these, the broadest of the population who not only agree to pay taxes but also want to. From ten to fifteen percent, it was called. Fifteen percent of the tax is actually fixed on these types of population. What is middle class? How do people define themselves as the middle class? It was all in the polls and it wasn't invented in the office or read in a book. These are people who make, sorry in dollars, so it's usually all of us, from a hundred dollars, of course, from a living minimum and actually to two thousand. Most of the answers are people who make more than two thousand dollars, that they're either rich or that feel pretty self-sufficient in terms of income. It's for these types of population that we actually do the tax in this way. And the main thing is the scale. Sergei Anatoliyovich did not say that up to 6,000 bracelets are quite limited. I have to compare what people in this poll want. And I'll remind you, seven thousand respondents is a very serious job done. In fact, they're willing to legalize and we have to show a certain direction that they can still go from the point of view of increasing their income to making more money, while the tax system is not going to change for them. Of course, for those people who make less than a hundred dollars today, it's four hundred dollars, close to a minimum of living, given that it's going to go up. We certainly don't have the right to increase tax burden, let's say, at the expense of Russia, when there was actually an increase in tax burden for these types of people from 10 to 13 percent to the fixed tax level. He stays that way. And one last question. We're talking about legalization of wages, we're not talking about legalization of capital. I would very much ask that we don't mix these concepts, because they have different natures, they have different psychology, they have different roots. My own research shows that more than 20 percent are not yet willing to pay as a profit tax. If we leave 25 percent, as proposed in the first bill, we actually leave a pretty substantial pile of wages or income in the background. The question on which a speculative comparison was actually built today is an untaxed minimum. There's no contradiction. Of course, and I'm personal, and the government realizes that the subsistence minimum and the level of calculation, or the untaxed minimum, must match. But there's only one question left. Those who did the actual thing, who was the manager or the manager, realize that you can do anything, but you can't do everything at once. We've been trying for 10 years to do everything right now. You're full of shit! It's not working. We need to start a step, we need to take the first step, what we're proposing: next year, we want to devote legalization, that is, reform scales and rates, see tax, that is, the base that will be legalized and reflected in local budgets. Once this is done, starting in 2004, every year we will compare the local budget base with the cost of spending and what we want to see when tax burden decreases as an untaxed minimum. And every year we have to raise this untaxed minimum. If we keep trying to do everything right now, we're gonna lose that chance of tax reform. I'm saying I'm sorry, a little emotional, but this is a very serious question. Any manager, my dear manager understands that you have to move one step at a time, you can't solve everything at once. First of all, it's legalization. And that's what we have to do. And we've lost 10 years. We have one year to lose to carry out this tax reform. And since 2004, we've started to raise the poorest population by calculating wages. Because the economic initiative will already be in the hands of those who are economically active. That's the 46 percent I'm talking about. And that's the concept. This is the principle of difference. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u167	Thank you. If you have any questions, please write it down. Five minutes to ask. National Deputy Kosinov, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u168	Kosinov, 170 district. It is my understanding that the Cabinet of Ministers does not have a clear tax mechanism for the proceeds of real estate sales. Do you think it should be a progressive scale of taxation or is it a fixed tax? And how much will this affect to cover up the tax that should, let's say, be kept from selling real estate?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u169	Thank you. This is a question that still needs to be worked out conceptually, because it's a matter of a separate law. I can tell you my personal attitude. First. This should be a fixed amount as a percentage of the cost of housing or real estate that is being sold. It cannot be progressive, for it will be unfair, for it will be unfair. The principle. But all over the world, there's a pretty simple real estate tax system. What do we have in Ukraine today? We're taxing on the definition of the contract price defined in the contract. We all bought accommodations. We understand that the contract price is going down tens of times. And this is a perfectly normal practice, unfortunately, I emphasize. Dozens of times, huge losses, well, I can agree with that. The question is as follows. Around the world, local authorities are working on a table, as it were. The average cost of a square meter or a dwelling, or a real estate, or an office space, and so forth. It's a certain fork, it's not fixed. This is done by local authorities, and they are better aware of the conjuncture to the real estate in this region. And whatever price you put on the contract, be good, you should be in the fork. If you don't get into the fork, that's when this law decides that you're going to take on the average of this fork and you're going to have to pay, because otherwise you're not going to own this property. It's a principle. You don't have to do any know-how, you don't have to do anything, you just have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u170	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u171	Igor Olegovich, you know that government policy is now aimed at destroying local self-government, that is, leaving them with the possibility of having local funding. How will your concept preserve the ability to fill local budgets?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u172	Thank you. The question is, of course, important. In the absence of time, I was simply unable to explain it during the performance. But thank you again. I want to stress the following. Unfortunately, any bill that's being passed doesn't analyze how it's going to affect local budgets. So you can talk about the total amount that Sergey Anatolyovich said, and by the way, it's 7 billion minus not from 10.5, but 9.980, because I know that figure exactly. It's actually destroying local budgets. We're working with the compensators. Because I'm sorry, I'm responsible not only for tax reform, but for what happens in the regions. There is a huge danger that tax recovery will take place unevenly throughout the country. That's what I'm talking about. Because depressed regions, rural areas there have a seasonal nature, there will be a tax recovery, that is, the filling of local budgets will be much lower than in Kiev, for that is understandable. A knife, let's say, in district cities and all that. And our bill actually takes into account what to do with the relief from the benefits that we're offering. There's about 550 million dollars we're offering for one year. In the central budget, which is to be then transferred in the form of grants to areas where it will be slow to recover the tax base. I mean, the approach has to be complex. What we're proposing is the manager's approach. We can't let it be like people who are balanced. I apologize, I personally answer, I have the name I am responsible for, except for another, for not only being done, but for not destroying what we have created in places. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u173	National Deputy Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u174	Dear Igor Olegovich, when you look closely at working people in Ukraine, for example, 9 million of them, they are divided into 2 sections from the point of view of wage distribution. One part is, for example, 4.5 million, that includes teachers, artists and so on, the budget sphere. But that includes the services of motor vehicles, that's the service area, that's where small businesses come in. They receive a salary of between 118 and 220 dollars. And the other half of the population, where products are sold not for living money, is sold through the banking system. There's a salary of 500, let's say, up to 800 dollars a month. So it turns out that the first part has a budget area and has a huge shadow sector that deliberately hides the amount of wages at a minimum wage that is not taxed, and the rest of the wage goes into envelopes. So not imposing a tax on what's called a minimum wage does what they say is a bear service for the state. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u175	Igor Raphaelovich, I can tell. Well, first of all, thank you for asking. In fact, when we talk about the legalization of wages, we're talking about what it should be paid through accounting books, but not through envelopes. Regrettably, today’s huge sums are paid in this way. And money doesn't go to the pension funds or social funds or anything like that. I could say that there are two concepts in the world. There are countries where so - called computations or non-taxable minimums do not exist at all. These are so-called countries that are less socially oriented. Ukraine does not refer to such countries. Ukraine refers more to the European type, both in terms of psychology and in terms of the efforts we are making. So I don't think it's appropriate to give up on this principle at all. But what we're proposing, I'm stressing, is the manager's approach. We can do, we have, we have to take a step - by - step approach to the goal we set ourselves. The first step is legalization, the second step is higher calculation. It can't be done at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u176	Thank you, Igor Olegovich. Thank you. Time's up. National Deputy of Ukraine Viktor Alexanderovich Veretennikov Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u177	My dear colleagues, my respects, this project, which I'm about to report on the income tax of individuals, is the work of many professionals and, above all, industrialists and entrepreneurs, those who give people jobs and pay people their wages, pays their wages. I'll tell you, we went to this project for five years. Before I was elected as a national deputy, I headed a support committee. and the protection of a domestic producer in Ukraine, and these professionals of entrepreneurs and industry have sent out a lot of proposals, and we've taken these proposals into account, systematized and done this project. I'm going to say that he's closer to the government project than he is to my colleague Teryochin's project because they came out of the proposals that entrepreneurs and industry made. The main thing in this bill is the reduction of the tax burden, the fight against poverty, and the promotion of wage increases for low-income workers. Why do I say that? I think if we have very, very low wages in most of the population right now, if we raise wages to low-security populations, these people aren't going to store this money in banks, they're going to go to the store, they're going to buy something. So we're going to have an increase in the scale and other taxes that will then go into the budget, because the person who had little money is going to spend it all on himself, and that's going to give the next industry and entrepreneurs the opportunity to add new jobs and raise people's wages. And at the same time, this project stimulates the income of the middle and the bulk of the population, which, in turn, will be able to create new jobs. So we're very close to the government project here because we understand that the middle class and the rich class that will just give jobs and wages to the main population of our Ukraine. According to public opinion, each state should take care of both the budget and the interest of taxpayers in increasing its own well-being when introducing tax policies. In addition, it is equally important to implement the constitutional right of citizens to provide a minimum standard of living. This is the principle that is chosen as the basis for the preparation of this project. In preparing the project, we also came out of the fact that the tax law as a quintension of all social relations could not be interpreted in any way, as if no other law had been passed in the State, or that it should completely ignore or copy almost all the laws and acts that are in Ukraine. The project envisions a substantial reduction in tax rates compared to the existing ones. The draft law proposes a reduction to three scales of taxation. This approach is guaranteed that today’s tax system does not actually work. The level of pay does not correspond to economic dynamics in the state. Therefore, the draft law provides for the introduction of the following basic income tax rates received during the month. Up to four hundred dollars are taxed at ten percent, from four hundred dollars to ten thousand dollars in government to twelve thousand dollars, and fifteen percent are taxed. [[See, we're very close.]] And over 10,000 dollars are taxed twenty percent. So, I think I'm very important to the poor, and for the middle and the rich, it's very important. That's why I want to say it. We don't have, like in the Teryochina project, and in the government, there's, like, seventeen dollars, or twenty-eight dollars of untaxed minimum. We come out of these proposals. If for every person who receives a salary or a family, there are fewer than one and a half minimums approved by the Supreme Council, then half of that minimum, which is three hundred and forty - two bracelets, we have approved, the Supreme Council for this year. That's half a hundred and seventy-one bracelets, not taxed. So if a person receives four hundred dollars of wages, he is reduced by one hundred and seventy - one, taxed by ten percent only for the underprivileged, and taxed by two hundred and twenty - nine dollars. So the first one hundred seventy-one is not taxed. And for those of the wealthy, who have higher wages, they are taxed on each member of the family more than one and a half taxed minimum. So we're saving it for both the poor and the rich. The only thing I want to say is that when I reported to my colleagues, I have a lot of respect for Terhochin, but I have more respect, perhaps a little bit, in this matter of Minister Igor Jusko, because when we discussed this at the committee meeting yesterday, Igor Jusko was not, my project was not at all, they said that there was not enough time, there was only one Teryochin project. And so we made a decision to recommend the Teryochin project. I think we need more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u179	I'm finishing up, the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u180	Well, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u181	I think I need a government project, and this is my project that I'm going to take as a base and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, there is a question for our colleague. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, while the recording is coming, that we are working a full day today. We have approved the schedule of meetings, according to the schedule of meetings. National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u183	Dear Victor Alexanderovich, I am concerned about the proportion of the origin of the bill on the income tax of natural persons. I'm concerned about the availability of four drafts, and that could spread the voices. There is a MP, reported Teryochin, the government is. You said that you were close to the government, so why didn't you join in with the government, for example? You said you could take two as a base -- government and yours. But you know that by procedure we can't take two, we can take one as a basis, and then we can count the other as a second reading. I mean, there's a danger that we can fail the issue by trying to solve it effectively as much as possible, we can not accept any drafts at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u184	Dear colleague Black, I thank you for this question. I actually said that my project was very close to the government. But there are big differences. The minister of finance today, the minister of honor, said that the government consists primarily of the middle class. It's the variance between my and the government that this project, which I'm doing to you right now, is supporting, first of all, the low-income population and the middle and the rich. That's exactly what it is. And basically, let's say, you see, we have between 400 dollars and 10,000 -- 15 percent in the government -- up to 12,000 15 percent. That's why I said we're getting closer by the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u185	People's Deputy Landik, faction of Ukraine. Dear Victor Alexanderovich. I like your scale, which you said might be considered and acceptable. But we're still talking about revenue from natural persons. And let's see, if you're in the complex to take this question. Today, in order to raise a person's salary by one bracelet, you have to pay taxes and different funds -- there's also going to be a bracelet. So we're saying that we're fighting poverty, but we can't raise wages because we have to pay 1 bracelet. So, what's your attitude on this? Is it a question of whether or not to consider the actual Tax Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u186	Dear colleague Landik, your question is very important. And it really is. As an industrialist in the past, I realize that today the manager of an enterprise to raise wages for his employee still thinks, while the Pension Fund is 32, others, that's almost another salary. And this keeps the entrepreneur from raising wages. So I think we need to look at this one more piece of legislation separately. I think you said it right here as a deposit on these funds. They're also supposed to be, well, they're supposed to have boundaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u187	National Deputy Drogunzov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u188	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now, let's ask you a question. Victor Alexanderovich, first of all, I'm very glad you're out of the eight-year resort season. And you have finally returned by the will of the electorate to hard work in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u190	That's the first one. The other one. Why were you counseling about taxes, not with payers, but with industrialists and entrepreneurs? I don't get it. That's the first question. And the second. Tell me, please, if you please. Pays have been paid out for those who do not get the information, and as a result these people would pay the tax, as we all pay, what kind of amount could they possibly make, or what would their drinking weight be in the incomes of the budget from the natural person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u191	Thank you, colleague. I am very grateful that you have noticed that I returned to Parliament after eight years. I was a member of the First Parliament, but I came back as I was here a long time ago. This is the first time. Thank you very much. To your question why I consulted entrepreneurs and industry. First of all, I'm an industrialist and an entrepreneur. Secondly, I said at the outset that I led the National Committee of Support and Protection of a Domestic Manufacturer for five years. The people with whom I consulted are very understanding of how to do and how to pay taxes. But in the election, I had to consult tax payers, too. They're also interested in raising wages for us, and because of that raising of the people's level, we were adding new jobs and raising the economy of Ukraine. That's the main thing. Now, your second question. I'm not writing down the question, so. Yeah, I got it. If you get your salary out of the shadows. There are no such calculations. But I think if you take the salary out of the shadow, three times, that's the least, three times the budget will go into more money. Three times, I think, is three.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u192	Thank you, Victor Alexanderovich. Time's up. Thank you. National Deputy of Ukraine Oleg Anatoliovich Králjov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian Income Tax Act. I have written a fairly large text analysing all the provisions and with comparative characteristics on the paragraphs between the bill submitted by the “Regions” group and the previous three bills. But the decision will only address the points that are fundamentally different from other bills. The main difference in our bill is that we have 13 per cent -- one income tax, 13 per cent income tax. 13 per cent of the rate was in the Soviet Union and this rate was introduced early last year in Russia. In other words, our bill looks like Sergei Terrohin's drafts, and part of the benefits, for tax credit, it looks like it. Let's think about why we came here. We came here to sound and adopt the laws that people expect of us. Igor Yusko, as an honest man, said the people’s point of view. People want taxes today to be a single bet. People have to make one bet. People are tired of hiding from taxes. People want to pay their taxes honestly. I'll tell you. Today, accounting services range from 6 per cent to 8 per cent. 20 per cent or 25 per cent will not be paid. 13 percent will pay. People are tired of living under the sword of the law. People want to pay taxes. In Russia, tax collection has increased by 1.9 times since the introduction of the 13 per cent tax. I ask you very much, we have gathered representatives of various parties, various committees. Our bill has not been heard on the committee. The Cabinet of Ministers' bill cannot be adopted because we will cut off small businesses. The Terehina bill cannot be adopted because we will take a step back. We're back again. You'll see who doesn't pay the taxes? They don't pay taxes to people who pay more than 600 or 800 bracelets. And we leave these people high again. They didn't pay, they won't pay. We're doing the same rate for everyone - 13 per cent. This rate is intended for those who must step out of the shadows who are paid in envelopes today and who do not pay a penny to the State or to the budget or to the people. And these people want to pay taxes. I know enterprises where more than 10,000 employees are paid in envelopes. I know no such business. I want this first bill that we are introducing today to be considered in terms of tax simplification. The founder of the market economy, Adam Smith, said: "Any tax is evil, but there will be no State without it." [[A few words, and I'm done.]] But there will be no State without it. And he laid down four principles of taxation, two of which are simplicity and equality, all people must be equal before taxes and the rich and the poor. I want to stop at the second feature. Think of one of those MPs who sits here who says they're going to repeat the table that the previous deputies were taxing. Who's gonna remember what kind of tax we have to pay for the first, second and third bills? I think there's going to be units. And we're taking an income tax that everyone pays, and every person has to know how much they pay. With higher education, without higher education, an ordinary, simple person should know that I pay 13 percent - everything. So 13 per cent is the rate that was in the Soviet Union. 13 per cent is the rate that has now been shown to be appropriate in Russia. Let someone explain to me why a person, working on a basic job and going to another job at night, is forced to pay more tax on that job. Why? In Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, in all countries, people are now working on two jobs, three jobs, to survive. Why don't we let people work? 13 per cent is a fair wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of Bliya Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u195	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. In order to feel confident in this rostrum, the distinguished national deputy of the King’s fellow kings must always think of the people for the second time to come here, thinking about the people. There's no other way. That's why I have such a question for you. You've actually offered a number that's unfortunate for many, 13, more than that, since you've read Adam Smith, you have to read other works where this simple thing is written: taxes are not a market function and therefore no one who recognizes the market wants to pay taxes, even though you're 1 percent. And that's why those who have learned to pay in envelopes pay if they don't stop, and they're going to pay further. So what do you think, after all, maybe the Teroquina Bill will take as a basis and some of your ideas will be added there and on the second reading, really, to make a normal bill that will take into account everything, even our desire, for the second time, stand on this stand? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u196	I'm in. So we've been negotiating with Sergei Terehina, and the basic principle thing that he stands for is that there should be a table, that is, a level like this, a tax, that level of pay, another tax. It's a principled thing, and in fact, in that sense, the law, we're talking about the concept. I don't think we can accept this concept. With regard to the transition from shadow to light, the difference between 8 and 13 per cent is much lower than between 8 and 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u197	Thank you. National Deputy Teryohin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u198	Thank you very much. For me, it's just such an isothetic question that's interesting to me. Thank you so much for taking the basis, except for the stakes, for my project, the only thing I would ask, is that the next time the last brothers, because the mistakes we made, they stayed with you. The question is. Here's what you're suggesting is that 13 percent be placed in Russia, but do you know that Duma is currently discussing the issue that since January 1, 2003, cancel this order, because even the deputies of the Russian Duma have realized that it's social and immoral to tax on the first penny, on the first ruble, both Grandma and Beresowski. So here's what you're proposing to do with this experiment in Ukraine. Please explain the social basis for such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u199	On the basis of what we have taken as a basis, I have not specifically begun to understand the bill and I have a very detailed analysis: there are many mistakes in each of the bills. I didn't specifically focus on them because it's the first reading, and we're now discussing the concept, including yours. With regard to the concept of thirteen or the table, I will say that, of course, if we take a single rate, in five or six years or in ten years, depending on how quickly we are going to have market transformations, we will move on, we will be forced to come to the tax that you are offering. But today, so that people can breathe in peace, so that we do not bring in today, as the People's MP proposed an amendment to the Constitution, that we have a tax inspection as a central body. In order for our people, entrepreneurs, to be able to work peacefully, we need to adopt laws that will allow businesses to get out of the shadows. And that's norm number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u200	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u201	Please give the floor to Deputy Bulbe.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u202	The Bulba People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u203	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The Minister of Finance called it such an interesting figure that 46 percent of respondents said they wanted to have a fixed tax. That's not how they wanted it. They seem to me to have the greatest interest in reducing this kind of tax terror and government rackets and so on -- that's what they wanted in this very law. How does your bill plan to reach this point, to take into account the wishes of someone who pays taxes?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u204	The point is, in fact, you said it right -- 46 percent is for a single tax, a single tax, a single interest rate. Here we offer a single interest rate, a single tax is 13 per cent. And this is a quintessence, the basic concept of our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u205	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u206	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's the second time I've checked in and out. Dear colleague, your winged slogan in the election was "Better to be a comrade than a slave!" Now, I remind you that 80 percent of our comrades in Ukraine today live below the poverty line. From your point of view, which of the four laws protect the rights of voters, that's 80 percent because everyone went and promised to protect their rights. Which of these four are you proposing to equal 80 percent and 20 who live well. So, from my point of view, the Terehina project is much more in line with the promise of those who all gave when they were in the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u207	The point is that, in order to support local self-government, and rightly said that it was a pillar of society, Lenin promised to give the Councils, all power to the Councils, and all authority to give to the councils. For these councils to have money, there must be a tax base. And if we take interest from the ceiling, how do we bet, then they'll pay us a penny from the ceiling, and with what money are we going to fund local councils? This tax goes to local councils, this tax goes to teachers, to doctors. And I'm interested in these people getting paid, getting paid. I think so do you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u208	Thank you. Time for discussion is up. Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, we've been discussing this issue for an hour and a half. So we're going to think that the discussion is over. Decision-making in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. I'm asking the committee to finalize the draft ruling, taking into account the discussion that took place here. Out of procedure, please, Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u211	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you and I are discussing a question that, well, there's not even enough words to evaluate how important this is. Vladimir Mikhailovich, as chairman, is absolutely right that we have already completed this discussion, but none of us have taken part in the discussion of this issue, the most important, most plausible issue. And the whole point is that some have rushed to make changes to the Rules, which only takes 45 minutes to deal with any issue. We have arrived, we have not arrived, at any rate the chairman should and was obliged to stop discussing the matter at all earlier. On behalf of the Rules Committee, I concentrate on this important fact that we must return immediately. If we can't make a new Rules, we can't at least go back to the rules of the previous Rules, because we can't get to the point that we're not going to get to what we're going to talk about, we're not going to be able to listen to the rapporteurs' reports on a question, if we're going to be guided by those norms that have rushed into the Ukrainian House. It's a disgrace and a disgrace to Parliament! A law that affects the interests of everyone and everything, a law that we can tomorrow, without thinking about voting that can overturn society's lives. And we don't even have time to discuss it. Once again, it is not the head's fault, it is the fault of those who made such amendments to the Rules in the Ukrainian House in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-10-m0.u212	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce that this morning's meeting is closed. A break of 16 hours is announced. After 16 hours, we work, honorary colleagues, according to the schedule of meetings.
