ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. There are 301 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! At the previous meeting, I made a comment to the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, directly to his supervisor, Matthew Anatoly. The investigation showed that the rules of procedure for dealing with the matter were among the documents. In this regard, I apologize to the chairman of the committee. Is that correct, Anatoly Sergiyovich? Thank you. It's the Roadway's word from the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u2	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Interviews with distinguished colleagues of the national deputies during the break showed that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council did not work on the card. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have been instructed by the computer administration and the secretariat to check. Asking for information on how the check took place, since every voice is very important in relation to the limit. So if the card doesn't work, it's a shame. Please let the computer administration know whether the system was operating or if something was not working in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u3	Thank you. I'm going to ask them to prepare, and if you're ready, that's what you're going to do. Please take the floor of Alexander Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u4	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues from that part of Parliament that "successfully" votes the proposed questions! We really have a situation that's bordering on crisis right now. And obviously the problem is that we have to meet with all the faction leaders and deal with the Head about how to get out of this colossal. Because we can sell one or two decisions today, but it will not work all the time. You understand that very well. Moreover, there is a regulatory rule that states that decisions taken in violation of the Rules are considered invalid. It's also a famous thing. And our practice over the past ten years has repeatedly confirmed that such a regulatory standard has been observed. That's why I'm here. If it is known and there is a statement by the regulatory committee that there are no deputies for whom they vote, do not force opposition representatives to take appropriate action. [[I don't want to call names, there's a great man on my left who has high office, votes three cards, it's not entirely normal.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u5	National Deputy Noshchenko. I'm out of procedure. Please. He was followed by a national MP, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u6	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I have a comment about today's meeting of the Supreme Council. You have the impression that you are responding to those MPs that you know well in your face. I raised my hand several times to participate in the discussion of the bill on article 22 on the social protection of persons with disabilities. I didn't get this opportunity, and I would like you to give me this opportunity to make a statement about this bill, and to put the bill to the vote again. Secondly, you give the floor to those deputies who are not even registered. [[and not once]] And in order to get a chance to say the word in the microphone, they have to insert their cards. It also has to be settled in some way. I ask very much for a bill amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to be re-voted before allowing MPs to express themselves on the substance of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u7	Thank you. People's MP Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u8	Aolo's subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Julia Timoshenko's block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I remember that in 1996, if I had no memory, the question of whether it was legitimate or not was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ban the Communist Party of Ukraine. The Supreme Council was then headed by Frost. You know, he would very much like a decision to make so that the Communist Party is justified and so forth, but then a few men, not like now, -- literally a few men weren't in the Supreme Council, but were voting with their cards. You know, he's got the guts, I'll never forget it, and that decision was over. The law was observed, the Rules were respected. And when there's no Zarubinski in Ukraine today, and his card works here, he'll give it his word. Well, people are good, well, we can't fool ourselves if we don't want it to go on! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the situation is totally deadlocked. That is, until the issue of assessing the political situation in Ukraine is resolved, we will not leave. Well, you're a smart man, see what we've come up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u9	Thank you. I'm out of procedure. Turkinov People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u10	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Dear colleagues! I want to address Mr. Lithuania's Chief of Staff directly. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, 17 people are not in the hall who are abroad or hospitalized according to their assignments. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on instructions from our faction, I'd like to warn you that if you don't get the order right now, we, the activists of the Supreme Council, are going to set the order in the hall. We're warning you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. At the invitation of the National Deputy Noshchenka, I am introducing a draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. We've been discussing this under a reduced procedure. National Deputy Noshchenko, are you insisting on the performance? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u12	"Trouble Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! The current status of this bill has already been established in this room. But what I'm trying to say is that in its practical application, there's going to be a coalition because it says that the benefits are going to be given to children with both parents with disabilities. Then it will have to be added that in single - parent families, if one parent is disabled, the benefits will also extend to the disabled. Please consider this in your second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. This is Project 1160. I'm betting on a vote on accepting it as a basis. Please vote. "For" - 226. Decision taken. Enlighten the factions. Dear colleagues! I asked the appropriate service to handle the cards. They assured me that several cards had not worked because they had been erased. It's like everything's been adjusted. I ask, if there are any similar cases, to turn to the services. People's Bulba, are you asking for a word from the procedure? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u14	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Mr. Chairman! I refer to you and report that there were four men sitting next to fellow national deputies who voted with two cards each. That's a fact. And I demand that this be taken into account. Four votes minus 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u15	National MP Matvienko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u16	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[The multi-mandatory state constituency, the Aybor bloc of Yulia Timoshenko.]] Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to come to you both with an offer and a request. Do you realize that you are setting a precedent for absolute disorder in the Supreme Council for all four years of its work? I address you as Head of the Supreme Council and as Head of the Rules Committee. Let us then establish this: there is a written commission of those who are entrusted with voting. Or we remove the cards at least for those who are on board and in the hospital. What are we doing? Do we realize that tomorrow it will work like a boomerang? I'm talking to my fellow national MPs. Do you understand what is happening in the Supreme Council? And this forces us to refer to the Constitutional Court, which would explain, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a violation in the Supreme Council primarily on your part. You can't react. Please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! The documents will come from the regulatory committee. When they're printed, I'll ask them to look at them in their proper order. I can't run around the hall and check who's voting. Dear National Deputies! Let's keep going. From the procedure? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u18	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 89, Ivano-Frankiv region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We have been informed that 17 deputies are either hospitalized or on mission. They can't be in the hall at the same time. Therefore, the request that their card be turned off according to the Rules. You have this technical ability.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. I am considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine. [[on the extension of the benefits to persons awarded a "Ukrainian Hero" award]] At the suggestion of the committee, I put the vote to accept this project as a basis. Please vote. "For" - 225. I ask you to calm down, Your Honor, pay attention. You vote right, then the cards will work. I am voting once again on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine. [[on the extension of the benefits to persons awarded a "Ukrainian Hero" award]] I'm betting on a vote to adopt this bill as a basis. Please vote. "For" - 225. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues, you have to learn a new technique. What are you yelling at? For reasons of vote, the word is Frost. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u20	I'm asking for your attention. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Here's Valentin Ivanovich proving that his card didn't work. Make sure he sees what he's voting on. Well, they're chemical chickens, so why do you do that, Valentin Ivanovich? You're a smart man. Take a print, there's your last name, you voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, we'll come back to this later. Dear colleagues! I ask you to calm down, take your seats. The draft Decree 2180 on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Shufrech as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters is before you. Please vote. "For" - 221. The decision is not taken. I'm out of procedure. Martinuk Adam, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u22	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please tell me, or let the First Deputy and Deputy Head help you, let them show you the rule of the Rules that allows you to do what you do now. [[I understand you're very busy, and I feel for you.]] All these bills that you're putting once in a vote, we've already voted. Let them show you the norm of the Rules on which you can do so. That's the first one. The other one. You have a certain number of votes to adopt some kind of bill. Vladimir Mikhailovich, work under the Rules. Stand up. It didn't work out - consider other bills and so on. Just in front of the people, don't make fun of the Supreme Council! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u23	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I think it's a personnel question so that people can work on committees, they insist, so I put it again. Now, in order for us to have our balance, our respectable colleagues, don't deny it and vote on the Odysnik ruling, because they'll say it's one we support and the other it's not. I put to the vote a draft decree on the election of Ukraine's national deputy Odaynik as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. Please vote. "For" - 211. Dear colleagues! A draft Ukrainian Funeral Law is being introduced for your consideration. By the Committee Reznik Igor Josephovich. Igor Josephovich, do you need a word? None. Dear colleagues! We've been looking at this bill. There's a committee proposal to take it as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Funeral Affairs Act. Please vote. "For" - 225. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! A draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities is being introduced for your consideration. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes that it be accepted as a basis. Is there a need for a committee to act? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. Please vote. "For" - 212. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening accountability for violations of civil protection and protection of populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies]] Is there a need to speak from the committee? The responsible and reporting officer was the national MP, Maria Andriyevna Markusz. There's no need to speak from the committee. From the government, too. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening accountability for violations of civil protection and protection of populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies]] Please vote. "For" - 222. The decision is not taken. You are considering a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (relating to the payment of one - time assistance to the wife (man) and children in the event of the death (death) of persons who had special merit before the Fatherland). The committee's proposal is that we have to adopt this bill as a basis. Is there a need to represent him from the committee? None. I am voting for a proposal for adoption based on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (in relation to the payment of one-time assistance to the wife (man) and children in the event of the death (death) of persons who had special merit before the Fatherland). Please vote. "For" - 226. Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products. [[on the elimination of seasonal duties on fruit production]] The committee's proposal is that this bill should be adopted as a basis. If there's no objection, please. Alexander Frost. I'm out of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! This bill cannot be adopted because there are preferences, benefits for individual subjects of these operations, and we approach the need, and we bring all legislation into formal action for all equally. And these are just exceptions to the law, exceptions to the general order, and you can't do that. That's the first one. And the second is the offer. Vladimir Mikhailovich, draft laws are not voted on as a basis, but are voted on in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of imports of agricultural products. [[on the elimination of seasonal duties on fruit production]] Please vote. "For" - 138. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Law 1297 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms. The committee proposes to accept the first reading as a basis. Responsible to the committee, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Vladimir Josephovich, do you need to speak? None. I'm out of procedure. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say not so much of the procedure, but of the reasons for the vote. This bill cannot be voted on in any way, because it is already the collapse of high-tech enterprises that are still living in Ukraine. And it's only for a foreign producer. That is, last year we passed a law that took away that wave of protests or some kind of insult to Ukraine from abroad. And now we're back in this situation. There is no way to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You know the suggestions. There is an offer from the committee to accept in the first reading as a basis, as well as a proposal by Alexander Alexander Moroz. We're voting on the committee's proposal. I am voting for the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms. Please vote. "For" - 207. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you have made a comment to me, let me read the corresponding article 6.5. 4 Rules "As a result of the discussion of the bill in the first reading, the Supreme Council may decide: (1) Rejection of the bill ; [[including in the manner specified in]] (2) Transposing a draft for the preparation of the due date and resubmitting it for the first reading; (3) To publish a bill for national discussion, to finalize it, taking into account the outcome of the discussion, and to resubmit it for first reading; 4. Adoption of the bill on the basis and commission of appropriate committees to prepare the draft for second reading." [[with possible preprocessing]] Dear colleagues, we continue to work. Please. I'm out of procedure. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u28	I accept your invitation, Vladimir Mikhailovich, although I believe that the Head of the Supreme Council will never prevent you from reading the article of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u29	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I think it was useful for us both and for the hall as well. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the International Reality of Criminal Sentences is being submitted to your consideration. The committee recommends support. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the International Reality of Criminal Sentences. Please vote. "For" - 225. I beg of you, Your Honor, be more careful. I'm out of procedure. People's MP Mishur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u30	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm sitting here watching our agenda. We've already passed all the bills, so there's a proposal to close the sessions. Well, we vote a few times. Let's go to the committee and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u31	Thank you. Actually, there's a reason for your proposal, but we've gone far beyond all the documents, including we haven't passed legalization projects, corporate income taxation, excise collection, plus we haven't passed the ratification issue and a number of other bills that we haven't considered at all. So let's work. If we don't figure these out, then we're going to move on. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Patent Law Treaty. The committee recommends support. I ask to vote in favour of the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Patent Law Treaty. "To" - 223. The decision is not taken. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of classified information is submitted for your consideration. The committee recommends acceptance. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of classified information. Please vote. "For" - 225. The decision is not taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention of the International Labour Organization 140 of 1974 on paid school leave is being submitted to your consideration. The committee recommends acceptance. Please vote in favour of the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention 140, 1974 on paid school leave. "For" - 228. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments is being submitted to your consideration. The committee recommends acceptance. I'll put it to a vote, please. "For" - 226. Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! I'm bringing to your attention the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the International Reality of Criminal Sentences. The committee recommends support. Please vote in favour of this bill. "For" - 228. Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, you have a project under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Rudzkowski. Please. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u32	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have just returned from the Council of Europe. I want to tell you that if the Council of Europe is informed about how this is being carried out by gang voting, we have no chance of staying in the Council of Europe, because this is a grave violation of the Constitution in Ukraine. And this is done by the people's deputies who should be on the watch for the Constitution. I want to talk about something else. Now an article on Ukraine's breach of international obligations and the supply of earrings to Iraq has been published in Financial Ties. I'm asking you to assign protocol services to translate this article and distribute it to the national MPs, maybe they'll act more responsibly. Because the President's gonna have to take responsibility for the reckless steps he's taking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to say that this article is almost fully published on the Internet and also on Interfax and other information agencies. All those who wanted to know her could get to know her. I don't think we need to make discoveries. Tolstoyov’s national deputy is motivated by the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u34	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to apologize to all who have criticized us here in the hall, especially before Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, and before the voters for not voting with one card. And I want to say that this is how we express the faction's position. I would like to apologize to the voters and those who violate public order and boycott the work in the hall. I think the Council of Europe will understand them. And as for the Council of Europe, I would like us to go back to the issue of money laundering, and in particular to vote once again on the draft Law on the Safety of Persons involved in Criminal Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u35	Thank you. People's MP Martinyuk is asking for words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you may recall that last Thursday when we considered the ratification bills, we, as I understand it, agreed that we would not do any more of the same. So we're not going to be without any discussion, without any listening to this question, without any inclusion of it in the order of the day, pressing the buttons and voting. [[immediately written down - ratification of a treaty]] We seem to have agreed with you then that, indeed, the ratification issues are being considered at least by a reduced procedure. Reports a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, reports a representative of the committee of profile, two in favour, two in favour, against if they are willing, and then we vote. I thought we had that kind of agreement last time. And now we're breaking the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Indeed, the previous time was that when we vote on the ratification of a document, we should know at least what it is. If you open a folder containing all the documents, it's clearly written there. I ask the hall if there is a need to discuss. If we do not discuss it, then there is no need for it. National deputy of the Gmir. Please. Behind him is the Smoker, and then the Karpov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u38	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is where the Tolstoy people's deputy just came in and confessed two things. The first is that he and his colleagues are voting on two cards. The second is that my colleagues and I are not voting, but we are allegedly violating public order. Please note that a two-card vote, which is recognized, is a gross violation of the Constitution. In order to recognize that non-voting is a violation of public order, new legislation must be adopted. Vladimir Mihajlovich has just received a statement, not from the opposition, but from the majority of which is being voted on by two cards. Please respond to this statement by Deputy Tolstoy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u39	National MP and Comrade Tolstoy, please don't vote with two cards. [[Laughter]] People's Deputy Tobacco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u40	Aolo's Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Two subjects, please. First. I want to answer to the National MP Martinyuk. All the issues that we were considering about ratification were included in the agenda last week and voted in favour of them. I just want to be clear. In addition, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we lacked a single vote on two draft laws. I would like to go back to Bill 0037 and to the bill on Ukraine's accession to the Patent Law Treaty. [[This is about the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Mutual Protection of Secret Information]] And the last. I would like to say that the Council of Europe is not interested in voting in national parliaments as a great expert on parliamentary norms of democracy, because in part of the European Parliaments there is a vote by questioning faction leaders. We just have to get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u41	People's deputy Karpov. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u42	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] Dear colleagues! Three of these. Thesis one. With regard to publications. On the basis of the publications of someone to suspect something, I think that those of us who have this issue, as in the world community, have every reason to suspect the United States government that it has not taken action specifically on September 11. The other one. Mr. Rudzkowski. I'm also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, and you know perfectly well that they vote exactly as in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including two and three cards. And the third. Those who talk about one card. Do you want to remind me of the number of ballot papers you've collected and thrown with packs? Stop playing games!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u43	National Deputy Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We saw in this room when our experts, who had already been elected three times to the Supreme Council, made three drafts of the rostrum and then adopted them as a whole. So let's be tolerant. And now, essentially. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am very much asking you to go back to draft Law 1069, which did not receive one vote. [[Today is a fruitful day for social laws.]] And for everyone, today, 65 of our citizens, who have the status of the Hero of Ukraine, are not like the heroes who have acquired this status in previous years. I'm asking you very much to put, given that my colleagues didn't have a card to re-vote to accept this bill as a basis for the first reading. [[That's pretty much it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u45	National MP Rudzkowski. The replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u46	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Although some MPs from the President want to mislead the Hall, the National MPs, and the electorate, I reiterate that in no state of the world that is civilized, no national MP votes for anyone but himself in the process of voting. In the United States, a deputy raises up and says: “I vote in favour or against, or I abstain. It's the same in the European Parliament. If we are going to Europe, we should not violate the principle of the responsibility of each national MP for the vote and the decision taken. And that doesn't depend on which faction we belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u47	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u48	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I think that the debate on this issue is just today probably not quite until the time, because the Constitution of Ukraine is being gravely violated. [[And I was talking about it from the rostrum.]] And it is not the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that we need to see to it that the Basic Law of the State is implemented. That's the first one. The other one. I know that all the honourable colleagues have been looking forward to the moment when I will hand over to the Head of the Supreme Council all the material in which there have been grave violations of the Constitution and the Rules for this morning's meeting, as well as the evening that I have been making out of most of the members of the Committee on Rules, MPs' ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u49	Thank you. People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u50	Member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, a constituency for Ukraine's One!]] It's a faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to both you and the colleagues on the right from us, namely, the factions of the Communist Party, the Socialist Party: let's go back to the very important social projects of the laws. From a list of 45 bills that are in the agenda today, 14 are so urgent that three weeks later, when we return to this room and we vote on Thursday, this vote on some laws will be too late, and for some, it will just be embarrassing in front of people. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to take further note of Bill 1153. He needs to be put to the vote again. It's an extremely important environmental bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! On your proposal, I submit a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of classified information. The committee's proposal is that this document should be accepted. [[and it was reconfirmed.]] Please vote. "For" - 227. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Patent Law Treaty. The committee's proposal to accept was just confirmed. Please, Your Honor, vote. "For" - 225. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m1.u53	That's right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
