ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. There are 392 national deputies registered in the hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced in public. Dear colleagues, before we continue to consider our question, I would like your permission to consider some organizational cadres. I'll make an announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputy Rybikin Pavel Borisovich as part of the Democratic Initiatives Group. And another, your honor, with your permission. On October 24, this year, the fifth assembly of judges of Ukraine took place. The head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is Painterenko Vasil Timothyovich, who serves as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. The meeting also in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 5 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice has appointed new members of the High Council of Justice as new members of the High Council of Justice judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine, Palius Valentina Mikhailnovna, and judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Anatolia Mikhailovich, and Shelesta Mikola Anatolievich. In accordance with article 17 of the Law on the Superior Council of Justice, members of the Council shall take an oath before taking office at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Justice asks us to take an oath because it needs to work. Is there no objection? To make an oath to the rostrum, Malarenko Vasil Timothyovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u2	Honorable National MPs. I, Mallarenko Vasil Timothyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. I swear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u3	Thank you, Vasil Timothyovich. Your applause is our congratulations. Valentina Mikhailovna Palium is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. (Well, let's finish - then we'll be out of procedure! Dear colleagues, let's finish, it's a personnel question, and then it'll be out of procedure. Please, let me finish. I got it. Well, now let's finish the question - and it'll be out of procedure, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u4	I, Palius Valentina Mikhailna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u5	Welcome, Valentina Mikhailevna. Anatoly Mikolayovich Scottar is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u6	I, Scottar Anatoly Mikolayovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the work of judges and prosecutors. Yes, welcome to Anatoly Mikolayovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, Mikola Anatolyovich Shelest is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u7	Honourable MPs, I, Shelest Mikola Anatoliyevich, swear conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u8	Hello, Anatoly Mikolayovich. The oath was concluded. Please proceed with the procedure of the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, we had a question concerning the oath of members of the High Council of Justice. And the request is made before the question begins, not after. As far as the meaning of the problem is concerned. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a difficult question. For another year and a half, the High Council of Justice remains a member of the judges elected to the meeting in accordance with the regulations of the institution. Especially the former National Deputy Victor Shishkin. I have a specific question. For a year and a half earlier, you had led people to an oath. Is this to stop Shishkin's term, or what? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleague. I don't know about the termination of the term or non-term powers of former National Deputy Shishkin as a member of the High Council of Justice. I am simply guided by these documents and decisions of the assembly of judges sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in an orderly manner, as signed by the acting head of the Supreme Court of Stephanyuk, as well as the head of the Council of Judges of the Ukraine of Krivenk. Whether this is about this position, or whether it's on vacancies, I don't think it's the subject of research by the Head of the Supreme Council. I'm going to serve and ask the profile committee to clear up and inform on this. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Please proceed with the procedure, National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u11	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, block of our Ukraine. I am deeply indignant that, first of all, we are in violation of the Rules. The Rules do not interrupt the consideration of the matter. There has to be a completely different question. It's different. We've gone around the committee that I work with on legal policy, which is certainly a very controversial issue, because there's the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, there's no position. And here the Turkov is right, serious right. And so this question, I'm asking you to not sign any documents until you're done. It's a matter of conscience. If we have now broken the law on judges, on the High Council of Justice, then we will begin a circular violation of the law. You can't let that happen, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to take care of it in detail and raise the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am guided by documents from the High Council of Justice, as well as the documents that the convention gave me. I'm not in charge of any politics here. Dear colleagues, let's move on, let's continue our work. I've assigned the committee to sort it out and give it to you. The draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of Acided Ores. The profile committee will be here in five minutes. I think it's small, let's take 10 minutes. I can't hear you. Please, National Deputy Seminouk. With motive, please, or procedure, whatever.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u13	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The bill is very relevant and needs to be discussed in full. There are only six people. We analyzed it in detail on our own committee. I think let's give six men three minutes each. And this is going to be a normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! Is the offer accepted? I'd just like to invest somewhere within two minutes, because we have a lot of questions so everyone can speak. Puzakov National Deputy, Communist faction. Get ready for Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u15	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining Coal Coal of Oxedium by Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, and Boris Illich Olijnik should not remain indifferent to the Supreme Council Hall. Because it touches on the need to address not only the socioeconomic but also the political issues involved in accelerating the construction of the combination. I am in the Supreme Council, along with other deputies, representing Kirovogradina, and we are certainly the closest and most understood problems of the long - term, since the combination is not only about fulfilling obligations to other participating countries. At the same time, they can’t help but worry about the social problems of the combination. Several government commissions appointed by the government of Ukraine have reached a clear conclusion at the time of independence on the purpose and necessity of completing the construction of the combination. Since 1997, however, he has died of lack of funding. Indeed, the economic crisis in Ukraine must be taken into account. But the construction of the combination is closely linked to the economic and social situation and further development of the city of Kirovgrad and, above all, the region of Dolin. It should be borne in mind that during the years of construction, the city of Dolinska grew by 15,000. Now, energy and water supply, heating and other utilities are getting the city from the combination. Today, only 3.5 million dollars are owed to the combined city. Where can they be obtained from the district budget? That's it, from the district. Of course, the lack of funding has led to increased social stress on the structure. Constant indebtedness to employees of the combination of wages, uncertainty with the rest of the combination provokes unforeseeable conflicts. We have to agree that the adoption of the law and its implementation will allow, first of all, the opening of new jobs for 5,000 people and actually increase the revenue for both the State budget and the budget of the Kirovgrad region, which can lead to the withdrawal of the grant. Secondly, to compensate for the production capacity of the active mining companies of Kriwbasu, to avoid a metallurgical crisis, and to reduce the import of iron ore from Russia. So I have no doubt about the appropriateness of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u16	Please, Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Boris Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u17	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already thought this morning, something might have gone wrong with the government, maybe an influenza epidemic, or that while I'm looking at the unions, there's a living, healthy Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, God give him a long life. So I think this is where we're looking at this case where Ukraine has already invested 1 billion when it's already invested $884.1 million, which is 4 and a half billion, just in case -- one tenth of a year's budget, just in case it's already invested by the state -- just buried. Would such an object be of interest? Do we still have objects when such money is invested? I don't know where else it is. Well, the Palace of Ukraine was more modest where it was invested. And today they're being thrown into the Supreme Council of Undersecretary of State and all. Of course, he's a professional, but I'm not satisfied with the report that was made here today from the rostrum. And that draft legislative act on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combined, which was presented here, is not up to any criticism. The absolute sobering approach was demonstrated by Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich, a completely state-based approach, I would say. If property is to be lost today and there is a need to spend more on its protection and maintenance of infrastructure and everything else, some serious decisions need to be made now. What about Romania and Slovakia, who have already spent heavy money, some 80 percent have funded, others 60 percent, that's part of them, that's our contractual commitments, that's our image of our nation? So you have to take the MP's version in the first reading, that's clear. The government can't speak either. That's the first one. The other one. To assign, in the Supervisory Authority, now to ask questions about the commission of the Supervisory Authority to redefine what was done, what was being done, what was being done, where the money was going, where the elections were going, and to stop it. And ask questions about an effective owner. At the same time, I believe that the question that you were asked to take down, Mr. Gurov, paragraph 3 concerning the exemption of land payments. You don't have to film. Local councils are getting salaries from employees who are going to have a salary. If we put a bug on our necks in this business, the person who takes it will have problems. It's not going anywhere from Ukraine, let them invest here. But another problem is that we can't sell it for 1 bracelet. Let us be reckoned with at least later, then let us, on condition, be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u18	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u19	But to accept in the first reading and to foresee a mechanism where the 4.5 billion money that has been invested and only 9 billion have been invested by all countries so that they do not just disappear for that state. For this decision, I ask you to vote only for the MP's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u20	Boris Oilynik, Communist faction. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it would be more than reckless, on my part, to explain the meaning of this combination. Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov made this quite evident. I am just testifying that when I was on the subject personally, this genuine giant of the steppe and now, 17 years later, is astounding by its power. Sad to say, the most perfect buildings and techniques under pressure of time still settle down. This is because, as the reporters have already said, the readiness of the combined objects is about 75 percent. At the same time, the problems of the social sphere, particularly housing, are almost solved. There's a railway in the Valley, which is essentially going to shorten the freight lines, and so on. And I'm going to add that with the first launch, the combination goes into the project production of 6.6 million tons of high-quality iron circuits that our metallurgy really needs. I would ask you not to touch the international side of this issue, because we are going to get into a rather unpleasant situation. I am no longer talking about the oppressive effect both on the moral and material state of our native laborers and their families, who have in fact been abandoned. Another is not to be expected when construction has not been funded from the budget for six years. I understand those who are behind the cost savings. Yes, you can pass this combination to the casino. You can use metal scraps. You can sit on all these details proudly like a dog in blue from Lope de Vega. But where, as Yehanurov said, will you raise the people? You don't have to be such a cynical, respectable fellow, people live there. I think the option offered by Gur Vadim Mikolayovich is quite appropriate. By the way, let us not be distracted by our own people. I'm going to let you know right now that we're already in Ukraine for 40 million, because 4.5 down, 7 million abroad are looking for a job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u22	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Ukraine has become a hostage to a huge construction project in the Kirovograd district of the Crevice Cove. It's designed to consume oxidized ores that are now in landfills -- 600 million tons, and also 1 billion 600 million tons. This, for example, will take 110 years to work in a combination with its power. However, a huge mistake was made in 1994 when Ukraine took full ownership of the combination instead of forming a stock company with those nations that jointly built the combination in the Soviet Union. The question of the formation of a stockholder society remains relevant today. In order to be able to form a stockholder society and to make full use of the target of the Crevice Mining Coal Coal Coal, Ukraine needs to do a job of $221 million. I believe that this amount is fully available to the State budget of Ukraine. When we bring in $221 million and we first build up, we're going to become shareholders with them, and we're going to get all the profits in the work of this factory. I think it should be done first. What is proposed in the law, and what did Vadim Mikhailovich Gurov propose? Guru suggested that the direction of the combination should be changed completely. The combination ceases to be a combination of oxidative ores, and the combination begins to convert iron concentrate from other combinations. The combination starts with titanium-ylmenite salts to get titanium, almenite, and so forth. The combination has to be built by a metallurgical plant for the production of steel. When it's done, I want to ask you? Let's say that we sell this combination to this very investor and he does, but the investor will do what he wants, and he won't bear any obligations. I think we should do the following. Ukraine has to make $221 million and build it first. Then there is an association of shareholders from the countries that contributed. Ukraine has 56 percent of its property in the business, and the combination works according to its assignment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u24	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, head of the Privatization Control Commission. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u25	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, if you look at the bills, the second that's more proposed extended, it reminds me of the donation of property and the Circumstances of privatization around the privatization laws that we have today are meant for openness. The bill that is proposed for adoption will not solve the problem of calculation with the countries involved in building the combination, because the previous technologies for the processing of lunched oxidized ores are not less than 20 years old, they are too old. New technologies need to be implemented to enrich oxidized ores, which require additional investment, and they are not in the draft bill mentioned in the previous and second bills at all. So I want to say that no one will be interested in buying those technologies and things that are too old. It should also be noted that the unspecified part of Ukraine in the overall construction project is incomplete. It's defined only as a percentage, and it's broken down separately in engineering communications, according to design documentation, according to buildings that are not actually documented. That's why we have to do this. But I'm a realist, and so what I'm saying is, of course, we have to solve the problem of a mining combination, but first of all what needs to be done. First. It is necessary to prepare and clearly determine the limits and ownership of property, as provided for under the Property Law. Each participant should be invited to invite those countries that have participated in the construction work to create either a joint venture or a legal entity with a clear definition of authority and the boundaries of that fate that should be indicated in the Statute Fund. In addition, Ukraine, with such a corresponding statutory commitment to Ukrainian participants, should first not be able to deal with the participants who today participated in the construction of the combination. Therefore, the amount should be clearly defined as the completion of the construction, that is, the commitment to other countries to those who were engaged in the construction and especially to them as part of what either they would sell, or to that share would have to invest appropriately, and would be a mutual commitment to all the participants in the construction of the combination. And as stated in article 7, it would be appropriate to donate property to an investor without a determination of fate, with appropriate taxation, exemption from land payments, and transportation of goods. This goes primarily against our current legislation, the Property Law. And accordingly, I think that today we should be interested in making the boundaries of state property clearly defined in this combination, and then the commitments to the participating countries will be clearly defined in the joint venture that needs to be created. So conceptually, this law needs to be adequately worked out with the definition of the fate of Ukraine in this combination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u26	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov Please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u27	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. After the performance of Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, he is a motorist, and I am a Communist, I am easier to perform. It seems to me that the Committee of Prompolitics is very free to manage the good that it doesn't belong to -- it's part of Ukraine's national wealth, it's a $2 billion asset. What do they offer? First of all, let the state fully account for the debts of GOCOR, once. And that's hundreds of millions of dollars. It's different. Then, after it is calculated, he can finance the combination for another three years. And finally, she sold it, gave it to an effective investor for free. I think they already have the name of this investor in mind. Who dreamed of getting 2 billion for nothing or anything. In addition, for 30 years, forgive me, for 30 years HOCOR is exempt from taxation, or special investment regime. What for 30 years? After 20 years, all equipment needs to be changed completely. What's the matter? Why 30? Next. After the entry into force, which is a few years from now, the combination, its first turn, is going to go off and they're finally going to make 200 million a year. And the last. In these bills, both in one, and in the other, I think we should put them in a special museum, so that people will then watch and appreciate how the national MPs behaved in relation to Ukraine's national wealth. The environmental protection of the region, including the population, is not foreseen at all. I've been to Gokora several times. These are the Cycling Blacklands, where they planted a combination of oxidized ores. True, on the other hand, it unloads the curved horn, takes the raw material from there that no one needs today, but only pollutes the environment. The combination solves the issue of eliminating this pollution. At the same time, it itself is the source of such pollution. So I think, dear comrades, as we go into a calm phase of our speech, that both the first law and the second law must be rejected. It's none of our business to do that. Let the government decide. Igor Rafailovich spoke 22002, and if it were 200 million, 300 million would put and start producing. Because we have to count. It's not just Romanians and Slovaks. There are others, and everyone needs to be given. They don't want dollars, they want stutterers. Raw materials for metallurgy. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u28	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! The draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining Coal is completed. As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[It's for re-reading.]] We're going to go over the bills with a reduced procedure. I mean, it's an interviewer and co-reporter, and it's a 2-in-a-row, and it's a 2-inverse. Please. Reporter - Minister of Agrarian Politics Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk In five minutes. Better yet, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It is well known that the drilling sector for Ukraine and agriculture is strategic, too important and the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 June 1999 of the law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar became the first step in ensuring the conservation and economic recovery of the beet sugar sector. This law lays down the legal, economic, and organizational principles of government policy regarding export, import, wholesale and retail trade in sugar. The licensing of wholesale sugar is one of the basic provisions of the Ukrainian law on State regulation of the production of sugar and its implementation without licensing is quite difficult and virtually impossible to fully implement this law. The 2000 rejection by the Supreme Council of a bill amending the Business Act to include sugar wholesale trade in the list of licensed activities was done with the preparation of a separate Ukrainian Law on License, which did not allow for the timely implementation of a number of separate principles of the law on State regulation of production, the implementation of sugar. Today, as you know, honourable national MPs, the wholesale sugar trade is being done by a large number of sugar owners -- these are also producers, natural persons, suppliers and material and technical resources, other subjects of entrepreneurial activity that implement their thinking, mainly in natural markets, on roads, selling in fact in the shadow economy. This situation in the market because of the lack of licensing does not allow for the formation of a civilized sugar market, the assessment of its available resources to ensure the internal needs of the state, the calculation of operations from the implementation of sugar by quota "a". Sugar is also reselling quality and conformity certificates are falsified and there is no way to verify the fullness of tax and congregation payments. To implement the Ukrainian Act "On State regulation of production and implementation of sugar" and with the aim of introducing a civilised market for sugar, we have introduced a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act "On licensing certain types of economic activity" for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[in the sugar part of the wholesale trade]] What do we foresee, and how do we convince you, honourable national deputies, what will this do? Firstly, to ensure the full organization of a mechanism for implementing the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar. Sugar producers will be able to pay more attention to the technological rearming of businesses and to create effective competition. Identify the most promising sugar producers and create zones, specialized zones, integrated production of agrocombinants for the production and implementation of sugar. Define clearer rules in the sugar market. Create a stable or intervention fund on the internal market for sugar from the cost. And what's particularly important is that we hope that this will allow us to effectively fight the smuggling of sugar into Ukraine, because just when there's a license and it's going to be issued by the central executive authority, we can ask where does any of the other goods that trades sugar come from, or the entrepreneur takes this sugar, which is its origin, and so on. This, in turn, we believe, will prevent such a wide, at least shadowy circulation of sugar. And in the end, this will enable us to properly shape price policies, to identify and implement minimum prices according to the current legislation, and that means increasing the efficiency of production that it will give, will allow for such an energy-efficient and high-energy sector as beet sugar production and development of this sector on the basis of large-scale reproduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u32	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. He's a reporter. Dear colleagues, we're, uh, you've been paying attention there -- a reduced procedure. Please have a seat. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Dear colleagues, according to the reduced procedure, I would like to ask your attention, according to the Rules of Procedure, the main reporter, the committee's report, two in favour and two in favor. [[initiator]] Please look at the list of questions we need to consider. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u33	Dear National Deputies! You and I are discussing the matter of a sweet life. Really, for whom? I personally view the expansion of the spheres of licensing as critical and skeptical, but I accept the argument that was made today by the minister and on the committee of ours, that in the specific, real conditions that have arisen now, there is a need for us to make a list of the areas of activity that are licensed, the ultimate trade in sugar. Perhaps there will be a time when we return to what we need not do, but in specific circumstances, there may be a need. Actually, I'd say the less licensing, the better. The better the license, the less it is. But at the same time, I must admit that it is now necessary to adopt this bill. Why? Because there was a contradiction between the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar and the Ukrainian Act on licensing of certain types of economic activity. And in order to eliminate this contradiction between the two bills, it is proposed to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. This change establishes a list of the types of commercial activities that are licensed and proposes to be complemented by a new item, 65, which is the wholesale trade in sugar. The Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Households, Property and Investment at its meeting considered a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities concerning the licensing of commercial activities related to the wholesale trade in sugar. The adoption of the law will eliminate the contradiction between the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar and the Ukrainian Act on licensing certain types of agricultural activity in the area of wholesale licensing and will help stabilise the internal market for sugar. So two reasons: to remove the contradiction between the two laws is the first reason, and the second reason is to stabilize the sugar market in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, supports the adoption of the bill. I have to admit that the main science-expert management usually gives the right and the right conclusions. The committee suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reconsider the proposed draft law and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u34	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor, two for, two for, two for. Please sign up. Got it. From the procedure, please, Mikola Tomenko. Yuri Anatolyevich, prepare for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u35	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I am, because the situation has arisen, the minister will report it. As we know, in accordance with the decree of the President of Ukraine, we now have the Cabinet of Ministers exercising authority and we are already in the media yesterday and we are working with the Cabinet of Ministers today, but I would like to ask everyone to comply with the President's decree, and to announce both in the press, and here our colleagues, as doers of the duties of Minister, Vice Prime Minister, and to act as ordered.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u36	The point is, let's all stick to it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u37	I'm the first one to write it down, so I'm right, and then look, come on. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, the distinguished people of Ukraine, the distinguished lord of the minister's duties, I would very much like you to continue to be minister. At least I think it's a step that's being proposed right now to change the law on licensing for certain types of economic activity that is currently being proposed. This is a perfectly right market step, a competitive step that is being taken by the government today. Unfortunately, with great delay he takes this step, he should have taken it much earlier. And I'll tell you that as a national deputy for four or five years, I've been asking the question: Where does the Odessa region account for 40 to 60 tons of smuggled sugar? It's delayed, and then it's sold as a "rather-sporting" to a particular clan five times cheaper. There's a whole fight coming. You know, there's no head of the Security Service right now, he'd tell you. 20,000 tons of sugar comes from the same question. So the question of wholesale sugar trade, which should be included, has to be included explicitly. This is the output of the economy from the shadow. What about the changes that have been discussed here for a long time? Three sentences, including "Optic Sugar Trade." Is this how we regulate the economy or not? I think it's a protectionist action aimed at strengthening control and getting the economy out of the shadows. And there's no need to look at it any more. In some media outlets, the hysteria campaign is now being solved that we have meat problems because the government has finally started protecting its own manufacturer. And thank God you're protecting, and you have to protect! Yeah, the problem with Bush's knives. Once again, Bush's legs are being smuggled, they're going again. We're going to disappear here without their legs. We will not fail without their legs and without their production of animal products. We'll just provide for our own conditions. And I'm in favour of adopting this law in the first and second readings right away. And I'm making this proposal that we vote on Thursday, because there's only three words here, either "yes", or "no," there can't be another option here. Let me save you some time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u38	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trubic Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u39	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency, deputy faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, and Trudova Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The adoption of this law will allow for the elimination of the contradiction between the Ukrainian Laws on State regulation of production and the implementation of sugar and the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities, right in the area of the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar. At present, the wholesale sugar trade is not included in the list of commercial activities that are licensed. Sugar for our nation was not only a staple food but also the most important export product. Sadly, in recent years there has been a catastrophic decline in the production of sugar and sugar. Yes, sugar beet production has decreased from 45 million tonnes to 15 million tonnes and sugar from 5 million tonnes to 1.5 million tonnes. In addition, the reduction in the production of beetroot and sugar is followed by the closure of sugar factories, the loss of jobs, the destruction of migrations, the elimination of utilities for the villagers of sugar factories. Dear colleagues, when we lost this ability to produce sugar, we lost its exports to billions of dollars, which is the loss of the income part of the budget. And what about today’s wholesale sugar trade in our country? The sugar trade is carried out by natural persons, producers, suppliers of material and technical resources. Regrettably, this important daily diet product is being implemented in natural markets. And because of the lack of licensing, there is no way to form a civilized market. We believe that the introduction of the licensing of wholesale sugar will allow sugar producers to pay more attention to technical rearms, regulate sugar resources over the year, ensure that more payments are made to the budget. By the way, the world’s leading countries and Europe’s sugar - producing countries use strict licensing of wholesale sugar. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposed bill and vote for it on Thursday as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities has been completed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is being introduced for your consideration. I am asking for a report by the Acting Minister of Economics and European Integration, Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak. Dear colleagues! We need to consider eight more bills to implement our work plan today. There's only 10 hours left to work. Let's be operational in order to complete our meeting schedule. Please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff was developed as a result of the meetings of the Customs Tariff Council, which took place at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, and was finalized. with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The bill proposes to adjust import duty rates for certain goods according to the current internal and external market. We offer five such changes. Let me just uncomment them. The first one. Detailing product codes defining individual product codes according to Ukrainian. the classification of goods of external economic activity without changing import duty rates to a whole group of goods. This is necessary to improve the customs tariff regulation of imports of the product concerned, to make a statistical analysis of the volume of imports. I want to emphasize again. We're not changing bets, we're just detailing the nomenclature. The other one. Taking into account the conclusions of the negotiations in the process of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization and the fact that wild, unclarified rice in Ukraine is not cultivated, it is allocated to a separate code and a duty rate of 1 per cent is set for it. That's why we're lowering the rate by less than 1 percent. Third. Given that imports of previous premixtures increased by 60 per cent in 2001 compared to 2000, and domestic companies met the need for a domestic market for this product entirely, in order to protect the national producer, it is proposed to increase the import duty rate for the previous premixtures to 20 per cent. [[they are used for animal feeding]] The current level is zero today. Four. The change in import duty rates has been due to a strong plant protection base in Ukraine in recent years. With a view to creating a level playing field for the relevant domestic and import products in the internal market, there is both an increase in import duty rates by 9 commodity positions -- I want to emphasize the increase proposed for the finished product -- and a reduction of 10 commodity positions to provide domestic producers with the necessary raw materials. 5. The single code and the reduced rate of import duty is 6.5, and now the active level is 15, the film with the twist effect. They are used as raw materials to produce packaging for conditioners. It is due to the fact that under this large code, which is now in the Ukrainian product classification, a very large group of goods fall under it. We need to allocate one that is not produced in Ukraine, and we need to lower the interest rate a little bit. When the bill is adopted, the government budget will increase from taxes on imported goods that are sufficiently produced in Ukraine, as well as from taxes on domestic production when raw materials are used to reduce import duties. We made detailed calculations to the State Budget. We estimate that more than 49 million dollars will come when such legislation is adopted. Moreover, all the decisions you have proposed are a step in bringing our legislation into line with the demands of the GAT SOT. We also agree with the findings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking on the need for removal from the draft import duty standards for tequila and miscreant commodity codes. We'd be asked to support this bill. It is expected by our producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u42	Thank you. From the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As it is known, in 2001 with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, all questions concerning the establishment or change of import duty rates for all goods imported into Ukraine are being implemented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of Ukraine's laws, taking into account the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, our legislation on taxes and taxes, including import duties, has been completed in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which determines that the above-mentioned issues are established solely by law. Such an order of change in import rates makes this procedure completely transparent, public and virtually prevents many problems with unfair competition and makes it impossible to silence unfounded protectionism by top-ranking government officials. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meetings on 10 and 17 October 2002 considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff and proposing that it remove the position relating to the change of import duties to Tequila and Mescal, to adopt a bill on the basis and as a whole. The above-mentioned bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, taking into account the summary of the negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, as well as the need to reduce import duty rates for raw materials to produce plant protection products in Ukraine, while increasing import duty rates for imported plant protection products produced by Ukrainian enterprises. With regard to the establishment of essentially duty-free imports of tequila or Mescal, the members of the committee unanimously did not support this proposal by the government as one that did not suit the interests of Ukraine and set unequal conditions for imports of similar goods, i.e. vodka from other countries. In the course of its consideration of the bill, national MPs, members of the committee, drew attention to the need for a more detailed explanatory note to the bill and to clarify the law on premixtures. The Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine has provided such additional materials for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u44	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we have signed up for the discussion of Barani's Alexander, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u45	Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski I will support this bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for the following reasons. This bill clearly protects our Ukrainian producer. Domestic manufacturers, with all the technical capabilities to produce all the products that are now subject to additional duties. Today, 95 percent of Ukraine’s market in plant protection products is controlled by Western companies and, as a result, has a price dictatorship. For example. Until the roundup was produced in Ukraine, the price of this American company's Mansto was $14 per liter, and when it was released, Ukrainian, the price of the American went down to $6, and the cost of the Ukrainian was $4.6 per liter. And there are other examples of this. For example, on the basis of 2.4D, one liter of import costs up to $6, the natives are 3. That's all, you know, it's going to have an enormous impact on the cost of agricultural production. The other one. This same bill encourages increased production of domestic plant protection products, creating new jobs, increasing budget revenues, as well as evidence, within 60 million dollars. When the bill is passed, if foreign companies continue, and, thank God, let them be present in our market, it will once again add 19 million dollars to the budget, that is, take the profits. I cannot accept the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers, as I have heard today, that they have already agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Banking that today we cannot afford to bring Mexican vodka "Tequila" and "Mescal" to Ukraine. In fact, we're offered duty free to import a Mexican female made of cactus. I see this as a threat to the national cultural interests of the Ukrainian people with the famous traditions of home-made self-sacrifice. A great choice for a female potato, wheat, grain, plum. beetroot, sugar, and so on speak for himself. And the cactus isn't for the stomach of a Ukrainian. Therefore, I propose a bill to support, as amended by the Committee on Finance and Banking, the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin. He will be followed by Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies, the people of Ukraine, you and I have been kicking our backs for a long time. Now we want to stretch it a little bit in front of the aliens. Is this about making it clear what the project is about? It's supposed to end up putting some obstacles between what's proposed and being imported into Ukraine all the time, and I'm not talking about Tequila, and it's the right decision of the committee here that's been taken, who wants to taste it, who's going to pay for the money that's going to be raised, it's going to cost, nothing's going to happen to them, I'm going to say that our nation is being destroyed today because the people are not eating the fish of the sea! Oceanic fish. In particular, shrimp, such as seaweed, silver hex, and so on and so forth, are malnourished. So I would like us to protect our producers, ours, ours. And that's why the question is, who's in the store, who probably knows that somehow we're buying Belarusian fish now, we're just Baltic now, and our uncomfortable Ukrainians aren't comfortable driving here and at these prices, you know? And today, those countries that don't have access to the sea at all have no industry, they're exporting to us, and we're suffering damage, of course, from that. And so the right decision, I think, will be if we support this bill in the first and second reading. That's the first time. And secondly, if we were to have this same committee analyze the other types of products that are produced in Ukraine, including food, and chemical products, and construction products, and everything else. You can see that today the European Union wants to protect itself from Ukraine. Let's defend ourselves. I'm saying that we're in smuggling and that what we're doing with the circulation of legislation is we're losing another annual budget, and I'm absolutely saying that in many groups of goods. Let's find it and find it this way. Of course, it is just a framework law. It is very narrow, but it must be taken as a first step, to be accepted immediately, as a law as a whole. This will make a lot more money than it said before -- 50 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u48	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, this bill is a policy of balanced protectionism and aimed at protecting Ukraine's national economic interests. That is why I think he deserves support. The Supreme Council, by practically adopting such a law, performs its control function. We have made our own decision that all changes in respect of duties are made by the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the government is giving us a bill. And, indeed, this is a demonstration of the transparency of such tariff policies. The bill is also in the context of the requirements of the World Trade Organization. And that also gives us reason to appreciate it positively. This bill proposes to raise import duties, import duty rates for certain products, some goods and lower import duties. But the total balance is about 67 million dollars in revenue. If this law works, it will ensure an increase in budget revenues. This is also an argument in favor of this law. And finally, I want to support Deputy Carmazin about the fish. Personally, I feel a lack of phosphorus for mental parliamentary legislative activity. I think it's not only me, it's the other deputies, and it feels like our people. With each passing year, Ukrainians consume fewer and fewer fish. This will inevitably affect the intellectual potential of the nation. And I think it's in this direction that both the government and the Supreme Council need to work and ensure that fish consumption increases. And as for the tequila vodka. Here I disagree with the conclusion of the profile committee. In general, I think this conclusion is absolutely right and wise and I support it, except for one point: relative to tequila vodka. The tequila vodka, I, by the way, love this vodka, is a very tasty and wonderful vodka. Unfortunately, the cactus is not growing in Ukraine, but it is produced from cactuses. There's a restaurant in Kiev called Tekilahaus, where I went and had a moderate drink. And I think about tequila vodka, we need to think about whether we should be so strict, because it's not that much vodka going to Ukraine, it's very high quality. And in general, what's absolutely right in the bill is that the import of duties on raw materials. They're growing up, they're rising, they're supposed to be, they don't have to take the raw material to us. And we do. decreases and increases in plant protection products. So this bill is absolutely appropriate for us to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine has been completed. The draft Law on Society for Defence is being submitted to your consideration. Please, the national deputy of Belarus from the procedure. Turn on the microphone. Yuri Alexiyovich, please come. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy of Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I strongly protest against any attempt to advertise in Parliament alcoholic beverages, the more tequila. It's an outrage. And restaurants can't be advertised. There's ethics!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u52	Thank you. Roger that. It's a draft of the Ukrainian Defense Society Act. Reporter of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Yuri Pavlenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u53	Dear Head, dear colleagues. Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. With your permission, I'm reporting the Act on Promoting Ukrainian Defence Associations. As you recall, this association is the successor of former DOSAAF Ukraine under the Ukrainian Unity Act of October 1991, it was registered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Social and social activities of society have a rich history, experience, tradition. It was created in March 1923, and it contributed enormously to strengthening the country’s defence, gaining respect and respect for people. The need for today's adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Society for the Defence of Ukraine is defined by the special socio-State nature of the activities of the Ukrainian TSO, as well as by the fact that this organization is the only civil union of Ukraine, which is responsible for the public procurement of recruits for the Armed Forces and other military formations of Ukraine, and is actively involved in the important state-level task of military-party education for young people, the development of technical and military-specific sports, the training of mass technical skills for the national economy of the State. The current legislation does not cover this set of organizational, financial, property and other issues related to the organization's activities. The bill before you has 110 articles, 11 chapters that regulate the general situation, the ownership of society, its economic activity, financial and material security, state support for society, responsibility for violating this law, the teaching of the conscription, activities in the field of military party education, and so on. In particular, articles 7, 8 of the bill define basic tasks and directions for action. It should be noted that the bill provides for military-partisan education in general schools and other educational institutions, assistance to war veterans and disabled persons, war veterans and members of their families, participation in the organization, coordination of business leadership, institutions and organizations over the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. An important part of the bill is the preparation of mass technical skills. And the training of military technicians is important not only for the quality of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, but also for the acquisition by young people of the common technical professions that can be applied in various areas of the Ukrainian farm complex. A separate section defines the aviation and sports activities of society. At present, the company develops ten types of sports and unites state organizations to carry out sporting activities, train athletes from aviation sports. Articles 74 to 80 provide for the special powers of the airline in the field of aviation and sports, training of athletes, airport registration and airfields, licensing for the use of sports aircraft, their certification, the costs associated with these activities. In addition, the bill foresees the direction of sports activities in the field of water sports, automobiles, radiosports, and sports. The proposed bill lays down the rights to property of society, the legal regime of property, land, the use of movable and immovable property, and its economic activities. Because today there are 151 different schools, 2 higher education institutions, 32 airline organizations, 540 sports and technology clubs, 11 child-sports technical schools. The Society has a rather powerful material base, including over 1,300 equipped offices and laboratories, more than 10,000 units of automobile technology, 231 highways, and so forth. The bill defines the financial and material and technical security of society, considering that the main principle of its activity is accounting and self-financing. The main sources of its funding are introductory and membership contributions, income from farming, publishing and educational activities of advertising, bank loans and other institutions, contractual services, subsidies and subsidies, as well as. State and local budgets. In addition, government budget spending accounts for no more than 30 percent of the total number of young people preparing. That is, almost 70 percent of these costs are borne by society. The creation of the Society’s trust funds is anticipated. The State is encouraging both Ukrainian and foreign individuals to provide needed assistance to society, including tax benefits. However, all the funds received are fully developed. will focus on the development of these types of sports and the improvement and expansion of the educational and sports base. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The adoption of the Act on Society for the Defence of Ukraine will affect not only 12,000 employees, but also millions of teenagers and young people who will be involved in military, patriotic and physical education by involving them in sports clubs, sections and groups will be able to legally address a number of tasks that are not reflected in other legislative acts, to raise young people, to establish social morality and a healthy way of life. The Committee of the Supreme Council proposes an approved draft of Ukraine’s law in the first reading on the basis of further elaboration, taking into account the comments made by the national deputies. The adoption of the law does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u54	Thank you, Yuri. Dear colleagues, no questions asked, it's a reduced procedure for dealing with the issue. They signed up for the presentation of the national MP, Mihovic, please prepare Yuri Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, you might want to get a little closer so you don't have to go too far, please. Only, honourable colleagues, two pros, two against, I'm asking you to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u55	Ivan Mihovich, Ukrainian Company faction, Carpathian. Dear colleagues, the bill under consideration is no exaggeration for everyone, since in our time, we visited the shooting tracks almost free of charge, went to the auto schools, participated in the lottery, or simply paid DOSAAF membership fees, and with our help, the Society carried out a variety of noble activities. It's part of our history, uncontrollable overcrowding. Well, that's good. Survived, operated, and has prospects. This is an example of how beautiful traditions, heritage, common sense can and must be inherited and multiplied. Today we have an opportunity and a need to express our sincere gratitude and a great, high appreciation for the moving work of thousands of workers in this field, of assets, of veterans who have preserved the material technology base, of experience, of the DOSAAF methodology, and in conditions of ruin, of disorder still do a lot of useful things in Ukraine's interests. Many examples of Zacarpathian and other organizations can be cited for confirmation, but this does not require evidence. The bill under discussion will, once adopted, create even more favourable conditions for improving their activities. It's worked enough, it embraces different aspects, it takes into account new realities, so it can be based. To improve it, in our view, the preamble should define more clearly the basic functions of society: education, education, social, military, technical, and so on. In Article 1, it is appropriate to emphasize that this is a nonprofit, generally a self - sufficiency organization. The scientific expert's suggestions are correct for the regulation of social and legal principles for the protection of social workers. In some articles, it is advisable to clarify, supplement, in particular, the tasks of society and the direction of its activities, the role of self - development, the realization of the rights and creativity of young people, and the formation of civil society. The bill is too big, even in what we got today, it includes 110 articles, and its separate chapters, for example, 8th, 9th, are too detailed, resemble an instructional document. There is a comment on the editorial plan, but in general this bill can be adopted in the first reading and serve well the formation of civil society in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you in favour or against? No, we need to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u57	Well, first of all, I'm still going where I can be. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. How do you say it's day or night?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u58	Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u59	It's tonight, isn't it? That's about me. I can't say "for" or "against" and "for" and "against" here, and I'd like to say it in my speech. Dear National Deputies! The bill is very serious. What is the seriousness of this bill? How am I the head of the Party of Fatherland's Defenders for helping, but then I want to ask you a question: Huh? Will you let the party make the Patriot lottery, which is called? You won't? Then I want to ask, and a lot of people are making such good wishes to themselves. I would like this law not to go beyond the law on the unification of citizens, so that it will fit in, it will be the first time that it will answer. Secondly, once again, when I speak for the adoption of this law, I would like to see things like those recorded in article 34 on taxation of income in certain forms of farming or other commercial activities of society disappear from it. I mean, there's a dog trapped here. That's why you can't say "for," Vladimir Mikhailovich, or "against." Here's the question. All we have to do is stimulate the activity that has created statutory activity, not just all the economic activity that we are doing today. We already have a DUSU at the Ukrainian Presidential Administration today. Can you show me where the law provides that you can stick to liquor plants in public administration? Show me the rule of law under which the acting colonel general should lead this institution? Or he also has a secretary-general working for him. I can't understand it. That's why I have a question for this law. So 36th -- "Commodities and material values that come to society, including from abroad to organs and local organizations, humanitarian or charitable, that is, without the purpose of profit, are distributed, used free of charge to carry out statutory tasks." What are these goods? I'd like to know. And at the end of article 69, "Freedom of educational institutions of society from paying all taxes, assemblies and payments." We're letting everyone go so soon. So I don't think the law is completely calculated, it needs to be calculated. And by speaking in general for, and by supporting Yuri Pavlunka, I'm making my warnings here because on this issue, because we're going to the budget, to the budget intervention, we're going to go to the legislative holes that we're putting in ourselves. This is something that we cannot allow against the adoption of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for this year. Thank you. But clearly, why can't you say white or black right now? It's like that, siren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, the Rules require either for or against. Please, National Deputy Løvin, faction of the SDPU. Are you in favour or against? Because if you do, you don't have to speak. Against? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u61	Levin Anatoly Ivanovich, faction of SDPU. So this law is a nonsensus. And basically, how he could have been able to get through the committee remains a mystery to me. What is Ukraine’s Defense Society today? This is former DOSAAF. By status, it is a public organization, but it has active officers, who in turn seem to be subject to the Ministry of Defence, and it seems to be not subject to it. One article of the proposed law implies that the dismissal of officers and their withdrawal from the Ministry of Defence may be agreed upon and implemented only under the terms of the consent of the leadership of the Association for the Promotion of Defence of Ukraine. That's not supposed to happen. At the same time, the leadership of society is an elected body that is not generally controlled by any of the executive, central executive authorities. And society itself is now kind of a community somewhere, as it were, so to speak, the public central authority of the executive branch. Why? Because some functions of central executive power have already been and are already performed by law. The rapporteur, Yuri Pavlovenko, had little reason to believe that funding would be made through self-financing and economic activity. Article 49 shows that the conscripts of the proposed law are expected to be prepared from the budget. Article 55 said that the maintenance and repair of the equipment in which the training was to be carried out would be carried out from the budget. It is therefore proposed, however, that the organization's activities be advertised free of charge from the budget. And there are many moments that are simply not acceptable to such a law. But most of all. Yes, article 74, 75th, 78th, 79th, 80th, attributed to the public organization the functions of the central authority of the executive authority in respect of the management, registration, licensing, certification of aircraft and the certification of exploitants. The law, I believe, is unworked and cannot be adopted. And the greatest danger is that, with the adoption of this law, the public organization is a paramilitary organization, and in fact, it is like a mini-dated army, working immediately under the Law on Public Organizations, i.e. the State has a limited impact on the organization's activities. And yet, as a paramilitary organization, where does it guarantee that tomorrow this organization will not be preparing fighters for any third structure? All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u62	Taras Blackwall, are you in favor or against? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u63	Dear colleagues in this law and procedure, in fact. First, according to procedure. Military issues are being suppressed. Did the defense committee look at him? I don't think so. Financial issues, budgetary issues, and tax issues are being seriously suppressed. Have they considered the relevant committees? Of course not. How can we ask the question of a law that plagues the entire range of serious problems of the state’s life in general only within a single committee of profile that does not really have a bearing on these problems? Let's try and figure something out. The first is that it already duplicates a number of laws in a series of regulations: both the legal state regime, and the emergency rescue services, where those problems that are defined as one of the main tasks of DOSAAF in this restored are actually defined as both mandatory and otherwise for all structures. Next. What's getting more serious. Article 35 liberates society itself, its local organizations, into this phrase, and the businesses it creates from taxation. Sorry, there's a lot going on right now. I think if we adopt this law, we have half the business going under the DOSAAF wing. You know, it smells a little bit of corruption. In addition, article 65 exempts from taxing a school, article 39 of the entire film service, which, by the way, is bound by other articles to exclusive monopolistic guidance by the committee. So that's the way our border guards are going to go under DOSAAF. But let's move on to this point. The monopolistic problems that have arisen with the adoption of this bill. Absolutely unacceptable things with licensing, exclusive licenses for applied aviation and technical sports, licenseing all the dart tracks. I'm sorry, it's already quite profitable, and when we start it, it means that it smells like real corruption and the real possibilities of manipulating whole areas and rest, and recreation, and quite broad areas of society. In addition, the licensing of all service dogs. That's what I said. That means we're going to have to get rid of the border and the militia in the near future if they don't want to go under DOSAF. That's the next one. There's some nonsense. Licenses to use aircraft can be granted by this committee in an article and by the fact that the committee may be recognized in this law as the state executive body responsible for the safety of sports aviation. I'm sorry, that's ridiculous. He is not an organ of state executive power. Next. The absolute absurdity we see there is the right to train technical expertise. That's the law. Good thing it's right. But in that case, if we put it into this law, then we can eliminate college, vocational and technical education. This is all marked. I agree that you can leave a whole series of these rights, but you have to eliminate the monopolistic rights of this committee and eliminate those financial moments, particularly the exemption from land payments, by the way. Who will compensate the local budgets for these losses when mass, like mushrooms, begin to grow after the rain? And how are we going to look into the same local budgeters? So, I think the law itself is necessary, as an idea, but not in that way. He needs to be sent for work, thrown out all the items that conflict with other legislation and that are not provided for, not considered by the tax laws that are to be established by them, not by this law, and then returned to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Two-in-a-two-in-action. Let's finish the discussion. What's your procedure? People's MP Manchulenko. Out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u65	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! I always stand up with respect for my colleagues and for what they say. But it's a shame when there's a lot of snags going on. First problem. Those critical remarks that were previously made were in the previous bill. There is now a very different bill in place, where many of the problems that have now been called no longer simply exist. The second question. Those remarks are fundamental to the Ministry of Defence, all of which are included in this bill. Third problem. I always respect people who are dealing with a particular problem. If people do not understand, it is better to keep quiet and listen to others. And the fourth. It's very sad when critical remarks are made just because someone has never been allowed to privatise anything in the Ukrainian defence society system. The problem is, it exists. This society exists, it takes care of technical sports that bring enormous gains to our nation. Both paratroopers and pilot pilots and other specialties are preparing specialists for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I have schools in the district that deal with this problem. Failure to see that this issue requires immediate regulation by the legislature is simply a matter of deceiving. These include drivers for the Armed Forces and Communications or other specialties. Of course, the bill can't be perfect, but it's just the first reading and the second reading can settle a lot of issues that have arisen here. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Well, please, Yuri Pavlovenko, a few words to sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! I thank all those who made comments. Convinced that some of them will enter the second reading, but just a few answers as to how the budget goes to the defense society, as it does the government’s bidding. This is the first time. And secondly, the honourable Mr. Taras, part of the problems he was talking about, has already been corrected, as the law was previously directed by the committee, and this law that I am presenting today is the law that was passed in exchange for the earlier one. So most of those problems are already excluded from this new project. So I would ask all my colleagues to become actively involved in the work and to support it in the first reading and in the second reading to refine and make all the necessary changes. Besides, I'm just going to answer that this law is on the Defence Committee and on the Banking Committee, and I don't know when it's going to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! We're finalizing a project on the Ukrainian Defense Society. As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote, on the day of the vote. Igor Raphailovich, do you have a procedure? Please, Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Deputies! I'm sorry to bother you, but I forgot to say one very important detail about the Crevice Mining Combine. That is, if we put $221 million into the first line, we're going to form a stockholder company called Ukraine, Slovakia and Romania, and then we're going to get rid of 44 million tons of debt that's worth $880 million. This is a very important moment. If we don't, we have to pay this debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have a project under consideration. I think we'll take that note from Igor Raffailovich Yuhnowski. You are being reviewed by the draft Law on the Concept of Development of the Radio Information Space of Ukraine. Rapporteur: Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I am at the request of national deputy Eugene Jovtak, who is the author of the bill, the joint position of both Eugene Jovtak and the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, because the committee has considered this issue and it has been decided to support the document in the first reading and to finalize it with a number of comments that I will talk about a little bit later. The first argument why we support this bill is the following. Today, the potential of basic laws in information politics has virtually run out. The committee is currently working on a new edition of the television and radio bill, a new version of the advertising law, a new edition of the National Council on Television and Radio. These laws, which are several versions, are mass, hundreds of suggestions, actually going chaotic today. We need to put out the general principles now, the general logic of building the radio space of Ukraine in order to get here in the session hall, by making new laws, we understood what we were doing today after the legislative field of the information space was largely exhausted because it was adopted in the early 1990s. For example, we need to determine what we are doing with national television and national radio. So we need to make clear the timing and status of social television and radio talk. We need to define the principle that our air radio, which is being destroyed today, is being destroyed and destroyed, to a large extent, by the non-funding of RTD. And so today, the broadcast of the session in many regions is shut down by the fact that we have no understanding and no clear position, what is and how to develop the SD-1, SD-2 and SD-3. So these are general postulates, general principles. These are the technical parameters. We have to write in time: the transition to digital language, to new technologies, for example, 2005 or 2007. These are European or international standards. So we bring our legislation in the television field to European language in that part and that part. In most of the things I've said, it's in the document, but at the same time, of course, there are a lot of things that have come up lately. And the position of our committee, which is completely in line with the position of the Scientific Expert Office of our Supreme Council, is that we accept it in the first reading and actively work to get these new ideas, the new problems that have arisen, fixed here. If we don't, we're going to lose what we've actually gotten in recent years. Let's say, lately, I've been saying, we've actually lost the First National Channel as a state-wide channel. It's divided between different companies and today, for example, after district and state broadcasters got two hours of time -- 17th to 19th -- on the First National Illegal, because it's an illegal decision by the National Council, and no one will convince me that it's a legitimate decision. Well, for example, we've already separated Ukraine into a region divided in that sense. Already, for example, I have a lot of complaints from people who can't watch direct football in Ukraine, because the First National can't make a deal with the PFL, because 17-19 hours takes away every area, and so they have to show it in the record. It's actually quite a lot of people. And this is the element that unites all people. So without having conceptual principled things, we simply break this national radio space in the area, in the region, in the financial political groups, and in the end, we leave nothing. The position of the committee is therefore clear. In order for us to then convince you in the hall that we need to adopt a new version of the television and radio bill or a new edition of advertising, we need to make it clear that in the next five years, in a strategic sense, we are going to be going to be in the information space. So I would suggest that we support this doctrinal document, the concept that we should actively work and ask everyone to help us between first and second reading, and that we get the first time that we get a document that actually allows us to downsize a number of other bills that we have today on the agenda that we're going to be proposing to the people's deputies and the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u72	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. From the Committee on Information Policy, Ivan Sergiyovich, would you please see this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, first of all, I would like to thank you for the initiative taken by the deputies and for the position that information space needs to be improved, particularly with regard to the development of television broadcasting. I have my own vision, I have my own vision on the committee, although what's on the air in the regions is also state-speaking, and the first channel, and the government-speaking is the only ingredient if we settle these issues normally. It's about the concept. Of course, the idea is really necessary, but I would like the Supreme Council to take that into account. I think I need to adopt the concept of a national information space, that is, a national information policy. Such assignments are appropriate, including the Supreme Council. And, fortunately, even though it just happened, fortunately, that's a concept that has been developed. By the way, many public organizations were actively involved in public discussions. She passed the government committee, and I think in the coming days she'll be taken to the government for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This concept takes everything into account. It's not just a desirable character, it's an element of the report, it's the 31st paragraph of the national deputy Jętec proposed, and it's really a conceptual one, including radio talk, with its perspectives. So in order not to create a colossal and once again on the big circle not to start this problem, I would like us to take it into account better in the formal conceptual document that will come out of the government and accept it in this scope. And then it's going to be the basis for the Code of Information, and it's going to be a whole document one, a concept as a project for building our information field, and then it's going to be the Code of Information as a project already being implemented in a specific and legislative way, including a specific work on creating conditions of freedom of speech, freedom of creativity, and even technological and technological development. That's one nuance. I don't want to comment on the concept project itself, it has a lot of contradictions, a lot of things that aren't included. At the same time, I simply support the idea with certainty, but it needs to be reconciled with the logic of the matter. And in closing, I'd like to remind you whether or not to report that the committee has developed a technical component. There's a program for the development of radio broadcasting, which consists of very specific regional, system-specific measures, including what needs to be created, including financing mechanisms. This, too, will obviously have to be considered, and perhaps also considered in the form, well, whether the parliamentary committees are an ingredient or an element of its general concept. I'm asking you to support this idea, the logic of this -- the adoption of a general concept that would be a component of the development of information space, what's given in this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u74	Let's move on to the discussion. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij. There have been eight national MPs, but, dear fellows, we have to determine here, two for, two for, two for. Let's take a look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u75	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, the need to adopt a new concept of radiospace development. And the main directions are outlined in a short, concise but very strong speech by the head of the profiling committee. And I fully agree with that, and I support the concept, and I agree with it. But I wanted to stress the urgency, the need to adopt this concept. Because the old concept is not just out of date, but it causes distortion of information space. This is especially true during the electoral period. But this applies to all other periods. After all, the most powerful electronic media are organized on the basis of alternatives. TV and radio audiences in Ukraine have a serious alternative: either watching a series of "The World With President's Eyes" or as an alternative to listening to the radio station "The World of President's Ears". So the actual situation with the information is this: Ukraine is separate, life is separate, the world is separate, and we live in the presidency of curved mirrors. There is, of course, an information ghetto, where you can sometimes hear a free or independent word, but the ghetto is also a ghetto: you can tell yourself what you want, and you can't influence processes in the state. And to the presidential election, I think that this law should be, and related, those projects that come out of it should be fully implemented. Is this concept proposed by Eugene Jovtak good? I think it's just great because the state has to be an arbitrator in the field in this case, the state has to set rules for the game, to keep an eye on it. Today, Nakrad probably has no time to monitor what is being done in the radio area. Well, for example, I can tell you that we're not allowed to interrupt movies with advertising. You can turn on, let's say, channel 1+1, every day there's a full commercial. [[Please don't count this as 1+1 channel advertising.]] Well, maybe not entirely, but they're breaking up. So there's a very strong message here that the radio information space of Ukraine is made up of social, public and commercial audiovisual media. Long ago, there was a need to do social, not governmental, television as it is in the entire civilized world, to develop public television and radio and to get them out of control, total control of power. And by the way, Parliament has spoken for holding special parliamentary hearings on censorship. I think that this situation of censorship in the media is a direct result of the wrong concept that's being implemented here. So I hope that on Thursday we will have the courage and intelligence to endorse the proposed concept in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u76	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u77	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs. We really know that, according to article 92 of the Constitution, only laws and exclusively laws regulate the creation of television broadcasting, information space. And I would very much like us not to give this initiative to anyone, to other organs, but to control the state of affairs in this area. And really, the question of codification has come to light, that is to say, the reconciliation of all existing laws that are now out of date that regulate the state of affairs in the radio information space. And I think it's good that this is reflected in this concept. I would like to point out that there is a good reference to the fact that we have to protect our national information space, that is, the security issue. And they should also be integrated into the European information space. Using what Mr. Chiji is here, I'd like to say that it's finally time for us to put EuroNews on our schedule for the broadcast of European news in Ukrainian. I think we need to get this project to the end and to. They had the opportunity to watch Euronews on Ukrainian television. A very important point of this concept is the question of protecting or helping to inform our diaspora, which is the satisfaction of Ukrainian language-culture problems abroad, because we have virtually very little work going on today. And I think we need to get into new technologies here, which is satellite television. And, of course, it is necessary to make the most of the correspondence in these Ukrainian countries, since there is no such direct link to these Ukrainian societies today. And what I'd like to say is that there are two very good points that I would even like to make clear in the concept is that there is a legislative restriction on the monopolization of audiovisual media by industrial, financial, political and other groups or individuals, as well as mechanisms to protect television from financial and political pressures by financial and political groups and public authorities and local self-government. That is, protecting our television speakers from the oligarchs. Because I think if we now publish information about who is the founder of Ukrainian television channels, you would see a lot of interesting. Thus, the well - written text here goes also on social radio. And finally, one more point. This involvement of public authorities, officials, in the activities of audiovisual media is prohibited and punished in accordance with legislation. This is a special point, because we've had to deal with the dark before, but it's not from the dark, it's not from the word "the dark," because everyone thinks it's a regulation on how to explain the topics in the radio. Then there's the second series. So these journalists who explain it, they set up a so-called, dark one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. Now we have two national MPs in favour of adopting this bill. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, are you in favour or against? Now let's figure out so we don't get to speak. Volodymyr Alexanderovich? No, let's do it this way. For or against? Dear colleagues, we still have six bills to adopt. I'd like to ask that we finish the job today, so let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u79	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I won't be long. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ukraine’s Honourable Legislatures! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would very much like for the Negro to announce some of the goods here and make a fair observation. Let's not let that money go to Cherniak's ad, but let's give it to the development of the information space of Ukraine so that it doesn't go away. It seems to me that when we're discussing drafts like this, it's becoming increasingly apparent to me that we -- Ukrainians -- have eyes on the back, because, frankly, one of the first documents that we should have adopted in our independent Ukrainian state was that concept. And today we accept it after the first decade of Ukrainian independence, and we accept the situation where virtually the notion of freedom of speech in Ukraine is long forgotten and, frankly, no one in our power today needs it. You know, you know, and you know what paper you're not going to open today, you're going to support me as politicians in this, which newspaper I don't open for every newspaper, and I see a very familiar tip of the Ukrainian oligarch. It's perfectly understandable. Today we have three channels that have been captured long ago either by power or by one or another by thick sums. I think we need to be called soon by Ukraine something like, let's say, Arab Emirates, where we don't have to pay any taxes, nothing, and where the Emirs run the state. And we can do that with an oligarch. Now specifically about this law. I'm in a situation like this. When Vladimir Mikhailovich asked, you were in favour or opposed. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I swear, I don't know. Why? This document is very much needed. There are certain things written in it and John Sergiyovich, when you say that a general concept will be adopted, I'll deny you. That doesn't mean you don't need a specific concept of television. And that's one thing that doesn't interfere. Because, once again, I say, this document needs to be accepted, but the other question behind it is, who's going to execute this document today? Ivan Sergiyovich, will you have the courage and strength to execute this document? I don't believe that. When you're throwing away Ivan Durres, Yavorowski, and he's running these programs himself, I understand that very well. I swear to you, Ivan Sergiyovich, if I were you and threw away your program, I would never have put my own place in this place. But these are just the details. I'm leading this to what this document needs today, but we're just going to say "A." Most importantly, it is usually necessary for these bills to be adhered to by our executive power. And I really wanted to vote on Thursday for this document. At least it's framework, it doesn't solve anything, but it's going to approve at least some new national ideology in the approach to our information space, which some people here say needs to be protected. But it's not there yet, there's nothing to protect, it's still to be created, and then it's just to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of those who signed up against the bill. Yuri Carmazin, please. Dear colleagues, we have five more bills. Let's go quickly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u81	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am against the idea of a bill, namely a specific bill. Because today the speakers were talking about how difficult it is for us to speak with freedom of speech and so forth. We're just being stolen, that is, stolen in a particularly large way -- the First National Channel, the Inter Channel, and the Second National Channel, two-thirds of it was also stolen on a particularly large scale. What's the concept? You have to do other things, you have to fill the law with a different meaning. But I am firmly opposed to the approach I have expressed today and to our esteemed former colleague Chiji, and today a minister with extraordinary powers would like it to be. He says here we're preparing a concept, we're going to enter it, we're going to vote for it, and today there's this concept. I don't like it, I say again, I don't like it because of the things that are written here, and it says here that the Supreme Council adopts a code of information laws, that is, the Information Code. I'd like to ask you to give us the Code of Information, so take all the laws together, not set the task before us. That's why I'm saying that these slogans are very dangerous, because just to approve them, it means to define the concept of the law. But there are smart things here. There are intelligent things here that are the limitations of foreign speakers. You know, I was very ashamed to be in Transnistria during President Transnistria's election, when they showed that we are the only country that shows us UT-1. What? They include me, I was just going "Era," and it was very late, and there were Russian helmets, which means the same authors were invited and so on. I say I'm sorry, I'll come to Ukraine and tell you all about it. From there, when there is no channel, 60 percent of the schools in Transnistria were in English until 1964. This then became a sphere of Russian interest. That's why I'm behind a concept where the oligarchs now return all the looted TV channels back here. I understand that it's going to be hard for John Chiju to say this, but let's say this, so let's make the middle decision: give the name Yulka brothers, some take it from here and fill in the content that we've all talked about today. But something has to be done, because it will take 11 years not to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u82	Thank you. Who's against it, my dear fellows? None. All in favor. So we're done here. Ivan Sergiyovich asks that he return the program to Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u83	I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I only took the floor to answer because Vladimir Alexanderovich accused me of shutting down his program. I'm telling you with all the responsibility: it wasn't, and it couldn't have been for any reason, because it would have been illegal for me to give such instructions. I never go to things like this, and I never go. But I'm one nuance that I wanted you to know, too. In general, the software policy of the law that we have, including television and radio, is the prerogative of the company itself, including the radio company. And of course, you can't get on the air once and for a hundred years. Every year the program changes six months later, so believe me, I didn't interfere with the policy program and I won't intervene.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u84	Thank you. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, the draft law on the concept of the development of radio information space in Ukraine has been reviewed. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, we were to consider a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the formation of the local police. The head of the budget committee, as well as the profile committee, were informed that already in the Budget Code, and accordingly in the draft budget proposals to be reflected in the draft law, they were implemented, i.e. there is no need to adopt an appropriate legislative act. That's why we're taking this question off the table. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers. I'm asking you to continue our work for 15 minutes. If there is a desire and a little longer to make the right decisions. Reporter-in-charge of Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich In short, if possible, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u87	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, you are asked to consider a law amending the law on lawyers only in one part concerning the citizenship of persons who are entitled to legal services in Ukraine. This project is designed to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with the demands of the state that joins the World Trade Organization. It is prepared in accordance with the President's decree, which sets out the list of these bills and the deadline for their development and submission. All changes that apply exclusively to citizens. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u88	Thank you. From the committee, please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear friends, the committee has considered this bill and has had enough time to study legislation and the European Union, and countries that are members of the European Union, and those that are now members of that agreement to which the Ministry of Justice refers. Unfortunately or fortunately, the restrictions on the drafters of the bill, namely the need for a new edition of the article, which removes restrictions on foreign lawyers to pursue legal practice in Ukraine, are neither confirmed by legislation such as the Italian Republic nor by Polish legislation. Moreover, our experts have found quite interesting norms in German legislation, where individual lawyers are not allowed to handle matters even in separate countries of the Federal Republic of Germany. Hence, all the references to the problem of joining international organizations do not withstand any criticism. But here, in my opinion, there are a number of issues that the Ministry of Justice has not paid attention to. The first important question is taxation of a kind of entrepreneurial activity, like legal practice. In case we allow foreign lawyers to enter and participate in trials in Ukraine. Secondly, no less important question is the issue of the absence at this point of a professional organization of lawyers, which is exactly what international documents insist on, and our commitments, the Ukrainian side, to create such a professional organization. And last of all, I think, and this supported the committee's opinion, to reject the bill, considering that there is no need at this point in time, to justify such a very important norm, in my opinion, that it is proposed to amend the law on lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u90	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Yes, dear fellows, let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyevich, what do you think about this? Carmazine, you can get out of here. Dear colleagues, it's written down in us. We're following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u91	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, Honorable People of Ukraine! What do we have to offer? I am absolutely sure that such a professional as Alexander Lavrinovich could not stand up for this law if it were not for the question that it was somehow related to the accession of the World Trade Organization. But, Mr. Alexander, I would like to ask, is there any other country in which you, with a diploma from a Ukrainian lawyer, will be allowed to participate in civil or criminal matters as a lawyer? And you know that you will not be allowed in any country to provide such services. Moreover, the individual states, the States, individual within one state, require that there be a registered person and that is where questions are asked. So the changes that are now being proposed here, I think, are completely unserious. And in this case, we have to agree with the arguments of the Committee on Legal Policy and not adopt such a law. I understand that something needs to be explained to the World Trade Organization, but they need to be explained that this has nothing to do with, at least, the introduction can be made, at least the Russian formula can be used. And the Russian formula says you can do services, you can do services, you can do services, you can do services, these services, and you can say, please open some offices, you can give us advice, but without the right to speak in public institutions, you can represent them in public institutions, and so please do everything else. That's the approach I'd agree with. And this is the approach that I'm looking at to the government to pay attention to, it's going to protect the interests of our lawyers, our lawyers, and it won't lobby Western interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers has been reviewed. It's a decision. A replica? Please. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the Legal Department has made a note that it is not a dutymaker, but a minister. That is, they remain in office and were assigned to do their duties. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to say in this case and answer Yuri Anatoliyovich that the question raised does not alter in any way the order of admission to legal activity in Ukraine. And on the requirement of corresponding convertibles, in accordance with Ukraine's international agreements on education and on work experience, and on the enrollment of tests on the right to legal activity in Ukraine. So it's not some automatic benefit, and it's all done on a two-way basis. And, of course, I want to say that we have an approved programme of measures in the country to complete Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, which states quite precisely that in the third quarter a draft Ukrainian Law on Lawyers on the abolition of citizenship requirements for Ukraine to engage in legal activities is to be prepared and submitted to Parliament as one of the points of negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. So I would like to take this very carefully, with an understanding of what the introduction to this organization means for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u94	Thank you. Question completed. Out of procedure, National Deputy Marcus, Communist faction. Turn on the microphone, please. I guess you weren't there when you sat down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u95	Lawyer Marcus, Communist faction. I fully support what was proposed by the committee. And I believe that this bill should be rejected in view of the fact that it allows for the expansion of the circle of people who will be involved in legal practice in Ukraine. Now our lawyers are in very unequal conditions and are not protected because they do not pay taxes. In addition, there is a guarantee of the Constitution of Ukraine - the provision of legal services. But virtually no payment is paid by the State on what is called free business, that is, on matters where the State is obliged to provide the customer with legal aid rather than to be able to pay for it. And changes to a large extent will increase competition in the field of legal services. So I don't think it's necessary to extend the circle of people who are going to be involved in legal activity. I support the committee's opinion on the rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. As for the decision, we'll determine when we vote. We are now looking at three draft laws relating to the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy. This is a draft law amending certain legislation. Dear colleagues! Maybe that's how we do it. How would you feel if the chairman of the committee reported three of these bills? A violation of the Rules? All right, it's not going to work. Please, the chairman of the Committee, Leonid Semenovich Schoolnik. Just keep it down so we can. No, no, that would be a violation of the Rules. One, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The adoption of a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts is prompted by the need to remove the duplication of the function of control of the central executive authorities and the establishment of a procedure for verifying conformity, declaring conformity and certification of products with regard to European and international practices. Until now, animal production is controlled by almost the same indicators by the State Veterinary Service, the State Sanitary Epidemiology Service and the Department of Product Certification. Each of the listed structures is conducting Western production tests in its subordinate laboratories or in testing laboratories accredited in the state certification system of the Ukrcepra. Thus, an economic entity is forced to test its products three times to control the unwarranted material and time costs. The amendments made to article 15 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification are intended to recognize certification bodies that carry out mandatory certification of products, positive results of tests conducted by the various central authorities of test laboratories, centres accredited by the national accreditation body. Repeated tests will not be carried out according to the specified characteristics of the product. In order to clearly distinguish the functions of control of the central authorities of the executive branch from article 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for violations of them, provision is made for the enforcement of veterinary health care by the State authorities only. This means that the product will not be tested to meet all the requirements that apply to the product. It is also proposed in article 11 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act to replace the requirement for checks by officials carrying out state health and veterinary checks with the requirements for checking them to comply with current legislation. The adoption of this law will facilitate the creation of conditions for the elimination of duplication of control functions by the central executive authorities on the basis of the recognition of the results of the testing of products carried out by accredited testing laboratories.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u98	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u99	Shortening the terms and lowering the costs of economic operators to carry out work to confirm compliance; bringing existing legislation into line with the requirements of European Union legislation and the GAAT SOT Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u100	Vladimir Mikolaiovich Yeshchenko, is there a need for the committee to speak? You can't, unfortunately, because it's a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u101	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supported this bill, which aims at improving effective legislation on the supervision of veterinary requirements, prohibiting the re-testing of products when carried out by accredited testing laboratories and foresees amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for violations of them, and on standardization and certification. The committee proposes to adopt this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u102	Thank you. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, you're written here. Are you going to perform? Please, Karmazin. If we can, we've narrowed it down so that we can make all these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u103	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Respectable national MPs, few of whom, the distinguished people of Ukraine, do not know that what both the veterinary and the services of the EU and the certification bodies actually did the same work, but they had to carry three baskets. And why aren't peasants in the market today? And that's why they're not here, because you have to give to them, to them, and to carry out the test. In fact, there were barriers to trade when we had them. And then these meetings. Why do we get past all these goods and so on? Thus, bringing to the requirements of the World Trade Organization in this case is a positive one, and it is a reduction in the element of corruption that exists today worldwide in the state. The only thing that needs to be achieved is a rise in the level of state veterinary medicine that would now cover. And the research that both certifications and health authorities have done. That's what we have to achieve. So this law can be absolutely adopted in two readings, it can be adopted in two readings, because it is small, and it lowers the barrier and protects corruption and protects the manufacturer in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u104	Katerina Timofievna, from the procedure, please, but this is how we need to be recorded. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Ukrainian Agrarian Party, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u105	Agrarian Party faction of Ukraine, Catherine Vaschuk Indeed, the law is important, every simplification of procedures is also important, but it cannot be adopted in two readings. As we go into the world trading organization today, we need to remember three things. First of all, we can't make our market completely open and all of a sudden. We need to remember that 62 billion dollars is going to the agricultural sector in the European Union, and our production is not that simple, and it can become competitive so quickly. And the second is that today we have to remember how much distress has been caused by animal diseases in Europe. But I have a third warning. What standard do we have to write in the law so that today there are no cases where we have, when we go through Customs for a short period of time, about 500 cars that carry meat of incomprehensible quality to Ukraine, and our customs fix only -5. What rules of law, then, do we need to bring into order those services that, not only without analysis but through borders, through prohibitions, violate the requirements of veterinary legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's make a distinction. This is about simplifying the procedure. You know, Catherine Timofievna, we were part of a delegation in Poland and we were told that the visa regime should not be introduced for Ukraine, we introduced it ourselves. We have 13 people on the border who check, as if we were just one country concerned about not harming ourselves. And by doing so, we create all the conditions for abuse. This is about simplifying this system. I think it's a normal approach and a normal process. Dear colleagues, we will decide on the decision when we vote on the bill currently under discussion. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Oversight of Standards, Norms and Rules and Responsibility for Violations. Reporter of the Committee of the School of Sciences, Leonid Semenovich. I'm just asking, we've already read all those papers, we don't need to be acknowledgmenting. If there's anything to say, focus on something, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The need to adopt a bill to amend the Cabinet of Ministers decree on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for violations of them is due to the need to improve existing legislation in accordance with the requirements adopted last year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, standardization laws, to confirm compliance and to accredit the conformity assessment bodies, which define new principles of state policy in the field of technical regulation that meet market economy conditions and international European standards. Amendments proposed to the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for their violations, on the one hand, aimed at reducing the interference of the territorial bodies of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, entrepreneurship, law-abiding operators, and, on the other hand, at strengthening public oversight with the aim of preventing the use of smuggling, counterfeit and dangerous products, as well as the request of authorities. The law will provide for the verification of only export products supplied under the State, the non-verification of export products, the acceptance of which is carried out by a foreign customer and its representative, as well as the verification of certified products according to the requirements for certification of products; the determination of the mandatory payment of fines for breaches of the standards, regulations and regulations of the State budget of Ukraine; the strengthening of controls on non-smuggling and falsified products; the introduction of regulatory acts and regulatory instruments harmonised with international and European standards on the appropriateness of quality and security of products during State oversight. The introduction of tests by an entrepreneur on the basis of appeals by executive authorities, local self - government, and the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u108	Please. Leonid Semenovich, everybody can read. It's all written here. It's all in the papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u109	The introduction of the proposed changes will help to improve the organisation and conduct of State oversight of compliance with standards, norms and rules, improve the business environment, further harmonization of Ukrainian legislation and European Union legislation and increase revenues to the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u110	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Yeshchenko. Committee opinion. Don't run away from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u111	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supports this bill, aimed at the implementation of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Supervision of Standards, Standards and Rules and Responsibility for Violations, in accordance with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Conformity and Standardization. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is and they also propose to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who will have objections? Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, just for a little while, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u113	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I saved half of it last time, you know, I won't say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u114	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u115	But there are serious questions. First of all, the law certainly has to be passed, thanks for its development. It provides that the rules on the uninterrupted write-off of the payment of fines are being rejected, that is to say that it is in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine of current legislation, but this is not mentioned in the report. So far, it's all against the Constitution. And then, if the fines are not enforced, then they may be in line with the Law on Enforcement. But there is a warning. A warning that there may still be pre-planned checks on the reasoned requirement of executive authorities, executive bodies of local councils, and various other supervisors, prosecutors, and so forth. First question. And I have a second warning. The Final Provisions of the Law, paragraph 2, read: "The Cabinet of Ministers, within four months of the date of entry into force, shall ensure that its laws and regulations are brought into conformity with this law, as well as with the regulations and regulations of the ministries." What does that mean? Four months. Isn't that too much of a deadline to put this in order in the central authorities if the Ukrainian citizens are interested? It's a very long term.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u117	So the month's term is to enforce the law after it's published. And that's what happens here: the law is being passed, but it's going to be done in four months, and it's not going to be brought in all of a sudden, so it's not going to be done, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u118	Yeah. You're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u119	So I ask that these warnings be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u120	Yeah, let's count it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law under number 1063 has been reviewed. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. We still have number 1217 left, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on standardization and certification. Well, he's done. Dear colleagues, please. Well, let's work. Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm not a replica of Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u121	I beg you, you don't need to be on the line, you're not a national MP. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm sorry. The adoption of a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on standardization and certification was called upon to bring into line with certain rules of the legislation adopted last May by the Supreme Council by the laws of Ukraine on standardization, confirmation of conformity and accreditation of bodies. matches. It is proposed that article 170 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in a New Edition, which takes into account legislative changes in accordance with Ukrainian law. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on Standardization, Certification, and the need to exclude duplication of articles are listed in a number of articles: 2, 3, and so forth. As well as the Ukrainian Decree and Law on Confirmation of the Obligations and Responsibility of the Manufacturer for Violations of Compulsory Certification. The bill provides for the deletion of accreditation functions, listing the powers of the Ukrainian State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy. According to the Ukrainian law, the functions are transferred to the newly created national authority from accreditation. The adoption of this law will allow obsolete legislation to be repealed in the field of technical regulation, as well as the organization of effective control over quality and safety of products.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u122	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, from the committee. Your conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monetary policy and entrepreneurship at its meeting supported this bill aimed at the implementation of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Standardization and Certification and the Code of Administrative Offences in accordance with the laws adopted by Ukraine, on the confirmation of conformity, on the grading of conformity assessment bodies and on standardization. The committee proposes to the Supreme Raleigh to adopt the bill as a basis. There is the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on this issue. They also recommend that the bill be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it not denied? Please, Carmazani.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u125	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a very serious question. In particular, if we continue to entrust I am very grateful to the members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, including Volodymyr Mikolayovich Eshchenka, but according to your orders to distribute the activities of the Committee to the Basic Committee when amending the Code on Administrative Offences, there should be a committee on law enforcement. Yeah? Yes. In such cases, when two committees are interested, two committees are viewed, but they agree. This is to be done in order not to violate the integrity of the documents so that they do not violate the logic of the law and the code of administrative offences. In this case, although a very brown change is proposed, there is no such thing. So I'd like to accept it in the first reading, but then I'd like to assign two committees, including the basics, to identify the committee that should be defined from the law enforcement issues. This would help to harmonize with other legislation and would further regulate the legislative technique, as some legislative acts still need to be amended. This needs to be seen now; it can not be accepted in general, only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u126	Thank you. The draft law, number 1217, has been completed and the decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, in order to clean up the experiment, we need to consider the last draft of the law. The draft law on introduction, so that we can fully implement today's meeting schedule, is very good. Draft law amending Ukraine's Communications Act. Reporter to Stanislav Alexiyovich Dougy, the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications. Stanislaw Alexiyovich, briefly, as, considering that the second salary goes here. In this case, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian law amending the "Connecture Act" introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Bespalim and Bondarenko. The Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications reviewed and supported the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the committee, agreeing in general with the idea of the drafters of the bill on the introduction of a second-hand payment in the O2 area, notes that the introduction of this bill is only possible in full terms if the equipment is equipped with appropriate technical equipment. However, as an expert, I feel it is necessary to stress the following. Intercity and international communication are not ready for a full transition to a second phone bill. In order to replace the analogs of the intercity stations with the aim of providing a second amount of conversational time, investments of 250 million per Mondays are needed. That's right. In view of this, the adoption of the bill is of no use at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u128	Thank you. What's Stanislaw Vasilovich? Yes. Carmazine, and we'll finish. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u129	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Dear National Deputies! The sooner we adopt this law, the better it will be for every citizen of Ukraine. So I think if there's no comment, it's the law that needs to be passed in two readings right now and ask the President to sign it immediately. So I'm asking you to protect the interests of consumers, of all Ukrainian citizens, because you know, you just turned on the seconds -- you left immediately. And given the second salary, you have two twenty left, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-19-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. This is a draft Law amending the Liaison Act. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. I would like to thank you very much for having exhausted the issues that were to be considered today and to announce that we are closing the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Questions will be discussed according to the schedule of meetings, before the schedule of our work for Wednesday, November 20.
