ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please take up your jobs, dear colleagues. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies please register. There were 381 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Astrova-Šumilova Hennady Kostinović, who was 65 years old, Zalatinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Litvin Vadim Valentinović, as well as Timoshenko Viktor Anatoliyovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the regulations on Friday, we discuss the issue of the day’s order. You have a list of the questions that are proposed for consideration. The regulations today do not provide for an examination of queries, but since we are working on committees next week, with your consent I could announce them and we could vote. Is there no objection? Such requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Vladimir Leschchenka, Omeljana Parubka, Mikli Nosenka, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the inapplicability of the Cabinet of Ministers' actions to support agricultural producers during the harvesting and harvesting period. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 187. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the illegal construction in the Mukativ district of Zakarpatsk district of the station for the overload of chemical production. [[Balog, Ivancho, Matthew, and others]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. "For" - 166. Decision taken. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the environmental crisis in the Donetsk region. [[Konovaluk, Bahejeva, Richterova, Hometicnik, Safiullin]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 211. Decision taken. Istwana Hydos - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of the visa regime by the Hungarian Republic for Ukrainian citizens and the cessation of the simplified crossing of the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 199. Decision taken. Alexander Shevchenka to the Prime Minister for sorting the price of finished coal to the level of world prices. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 159. Decision taken. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the premises of the Zacarpathian State Archives. [[Balog, Ivancho, and others]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. "For" - 203. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Leonid Kozachenko, in connection with the failure to implement legislation on the issue of State acts on land in the villages of the Zolotan region of the Cherka region. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for a referral. Please make up your mind. "For" - 205. Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of property rights of members of the Ivanovka CSP of the Kamyansko-Dniprov region of Zaporozhi region during its reform and the activity of the prosecutor of the area in addressing the peasants. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 184. Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the State registration of the Ukrainian-German closed-circuit association "Gruffia Ukraine". [[Cherkasi City]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 190. Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for violating the Land Code in the ploughing of the land of the farm cooperative Ivanovka KamyanskoDniprovsky district of Zaporozhye. That's the second question on this point. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 187. Decision taken. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the steps taken by the prosecution and the responsibility of those involved in the tragedy at the Skanylov Airport. [[Red, Stetsky and others]] I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 216. Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka is the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the lettering service for media personnel with the requirements for reporting events in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 190. Decision taken. Vasil Sirenk is head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration on the violation of legislation by officials of the city of Kiev tax administration regarding the publishing company Such Things. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to send a request. Please make up your mind. "For" - 191. Decision taken. The Taran MP to the city of Kiev on the arrangement of the Russian housing force. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "For" - 183. Decision taken. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal of the facts of the violation of the legislation concerning the Matricin. [[Demjochin, Hubsky, Gabrieluk and others]] I'll bet you a vote on the direction. Please make up your mind. "For" - 156. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I was approached by authorized factions, from the Communist faction, Adam Martinyuk, from the socialist national deputy Grzezhev, and from the Yulia bloc, Tymoshenko, the national deputy of Belarus, with such an appeal. The factions of the PPU, the PPU and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko are requested at the beginning of the session to give the floor on behalf of the factions of the People’s Deputy of Bokom. Dear colleagues! Like we'll do, because we're going to have this opportunity at 1:00. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote on the proposal I've made to allow the people's deputy Bokom to speak on behalf of the three factions. Please vote. Please make up your mind. "For" - 176. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! The agenda for today's session is given to you. The procedure requires the words of the national MP, Matthewenko. People's deputy Matvienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u2	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let me inform you that the Public Building and Local Self-Government Committee has considered the initiative of practically six electoral projects and their desire to make one coherent project out of these six projects. The only ones we didn't agree with were Joseph and Gabriel. If they didn't object, we'd ask that we save our working time, we'd consider this question on Tuesday at the plenary in a way that doesn't take eight projects into consideration today, but we'd only hear three on Tuesday. [[I don't know if these deputies are in the hall today.]] But on the other hand, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, these people who are gathered, I think they should give the side a word today because the unprecedented decision of the court on the initiative of the national deputies to meet the voters on September 16th, 15th, in the European Square, and we were sent to the Teaka Airport for some reason. I don't think any democracy in the world has ever known that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u3	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're out of procedure on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u4	I'm in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u5	At 1:00, it's gonna be "Victory," please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u6	For this matter, please give Boko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u7	Turn off the microphone, please! National deputy Assadchev of the procedure. Please. It's my fault, but there's a decision in the hall. What do you want from me?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u8	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I wanted to say, imagine the situation that we're all going to vote on. We want to do the majority and the minority in Parliament, that is, the majority and the opposition. If most people vote all the time whether to give a word or not, whether to consider laws or not, then the opposition will never say anything. It's not democracy anymore. I don't think such things should vote. That's the first one. The other thing is that you, as chairman, can say that I will give the word not directly now, but in half an hour, in 20 minutes, but this is, as it were, the right of the opposition to get the word and to speak. Otherwise, if you'll excuse me, we just have to throw out the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully support the National Deputy of Assadchev. If necessary, let's make changes to the Rules so that, at the demand of the opposition, so many people are immediately announced. Dear colleagues, I put the vote to the vote, the session room didn't support it. If you want, I'll do it again. I can't go against the will of most people right now. Personally, I'm more of a waste of time for them to come forward. But there is such a decision. Dear colleagues, there is such a decision. Once again, I said my point of view. So let's get to the point. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms is being introduced. Please. Once again, I turn to the session room, my esteemed colleagues. I'm going to put the vote again so that we don't block the work. Listen, let me say a word! Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We'll settle this now. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please, I am addressing the entire session room, to all the national MPs, let's not break the session, vote now, otherwise we're going to take a break and we're completely paralyzing the work. I ask you to vote in order to give the opportunity to speak within three minutes to the national deputy of Bokom. Please support me. "For" - 193. I'm going to vote again. And I'm addressing everyone, if we want the session to work, let's now give the opportunity to speak. Please vote. Otherwise, we spend more time. Please vote everyone. "For" - 228. Ivan Sidorovich, you have three minutes. Please. BOKIJ?.S., member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm speaking on behalf of the factions of the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko for an extraordinary reason. Yesterday, the frightened Kuchmewkomedchuk regime went to an unheard violation of the Constitution: with the hands of Judge Shevchenkovsky of the local court of Kiev, he forbade the people of Ukraine to express their will to the regime of the Mafia in the European square of the capital and to laugh at all the people, chickens and mosquitoes he carried the manifestation to the Chaika complex, which is outside Kiev in general, and does not fall within the jurisdiction of the community of the capital. But no court can stand against the national will that demands the resignation of Kuchma and his mob environment. Today, Kuchma, led by Medvedchuk and Pogrebinski, staged a spectacle of disguised as supporters of parliamentaryism. But he must have forgotten that the fat without bread was stupid, and in some of his speeches he got over ideas that clearly contradicted the ideas of parliamentaryism. Yes, he says he will appoint the governors himself. But if the country becomes parliamentary, why should it appoint governors? The people must form all power, not Kuchma and his administration. And the people have the ability to evaluate such actions. At meetings in Kiev and district centers, the people demanded that Kuchma appear in the European square and repent to the people. However, in fear of his own people for the destruction and theft of Ukraine, he decided, on September 16, to flee from Ukraine. Now he may say that this has been resolved in advance, but that's not true, the opposition has declared its intentions in advance, and the disgraceful escape of Kuchma from Kiev we see as a manifestation of his pathological fear of the people as his utter contempt of the people and of the principles of democracy. No foreign visits can stand above the misery in the state of which he is responsible. At the same time, we know that the command has been given to crush opposition, provoke, and wage war in Kiev and other cities. It will be another manifestation of his fear of the irresistible disgrace that he has heaped upon himself for all his years of free reign, for the genocide and destruction of Ukraine, for the plundering of men, and this will be the last blow upon him. Today we thank him once again for advertising the campaign "Get up, Ukraine!".. Having released all kinds of Yanks, Bodelas, and embroidery, he only showed who supported him, and he supported him only by scrolls, not by people, and no one else. Opposition forces claim action "Rise, Ukraine!" It's going to happen under any circumstances, we're going out with peace slogans, we're going with the only weapon -- the word and the Constitution, and if the authorities go into provocation, the pogroms, the whole responsibility lies with it. The Ukrainians need to know: With us are the truth, the honest people of the world, with us is God! We call for the people's right-wing bodies, honest officers, and we urge you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, to stand by the people, the highest representative body of the state. Get up, Ukraine, against the regime that destroys you! By taking a peaceable course, we will choose a life free from mobs and gangs! We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u10	Honorary colleagues, the State Building Committee and the chairman of the committee agreeing with the drafters of the bill on the election of national deputies propose that the matter be postponed until the next session Tuesday. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms. The reporter is Head of the State Department of Intellectual Property of Palady Mikola Vasilovich. Please, Mikolo Vasilovich, how much time do you need? Five minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u11	Head of the State Department of Intellectual Property. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works and Phonograms. The main purpose of the bill is to further improve the system of State control over the use of copyright and adjacent rights by distributing copies of them. We discussed the bill with the public, the text of the changes was on the website of the State Department of Intellectual Property. The Ukrainian author is practically supporting us today with the draft of this law, and we would like us to love the national author and defend his rights. The bill provides precisely for mechanisms to protect our national author. We believe that this will be an important step by the State in combating the proliferation of counterfeit audiovisual products, which unfortunately is still quite a lot in our nation's market. Within a very short period of time, it was possible to get the public’s attention to the problems of illegal use of the product, but it was perfectly normal for the market to work in a regulatory way. The flaws noted are due to the existence of objective reasons that hinder the uninterrupted functioning of our system. In view of the unprecedented experience of fighting piracy by marking copies of audiovisual works today, each owner, looking at this label, may say that it is properly glued to counterfeit products. We ask the law to extend the deadline for consideration of applications, because we are not able to consider quite a number of appeals, to provide for positions that allow for refusal to issue check marks if documents that do not meet the requirements of current legislation are submitted, to introduce markings with control marks of copyright and adjacent rights such as vinyl discs and film. In view of the considerable effectiveness of branding, we propose to expand the scope of the law by introducing the labelling of computer programs, databases, and videograms. The consequences of the adoption of the bill are, above all, the introduction of legislation in line with the new edition of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which is fundamental in this system, the implementation by Ukraine of obligations under international agreements, the strengthening of copyright protection. In view of what has been said, we consider it appropriate to adopt the prescribed bill, which will greatly contribute to our nation’s accession to the World Trade Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please point it on the board. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u13	Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] It's a faction of socialists. I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague, Mathienne Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u14	Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u15	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I want to ask you, and tell the truth to this room for once. Your efforts, thanks to the Americans' desire to protect their market, including in Ukraine, how much has the release of audio in Ukraine been destroyed today, how much has their production been reduced, including your famous Lviv project? That's the first one. And the second. How did you reconcile your suggestions with those of the manufacturers? Did you even consult with them, or did you collect them, or did they make their proposals to the bill you tabled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u16	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I can't say that we specifically invited producers because the bill isn't just about relationship with manufacturers, we're talking about copyright protection under the Copyright and Companional Rights Act. But as far as I know, at the round table, factory representatives were co-sponsors of the bill. So today, a company that is totally legitimate in the market of the state, this law only helps. We're just increasing the term because we've been approached by manufacturers that don't have the time to issue the relevant documents, issuing the stamps. We're in the bill to increase the deadline for these documents. We bring it into line with the Copyright and Companion Rights Act. So the company that's completely legitimate in the market of the state only gets extra benefits for normal work. With regard to pirate production, such reliable analysis is difficult throughout the country. But as far as we know, the pirate production in Ukraine after the adoption of the disk law, which you and I were having quite a serious discussion about at the time, has become much smaller in our nation's market. But unfortunately, it's still quite a lot. [[B in m in s a l in]] Russian discs cannot be imported into the territory of our country today because there is no provision for the establishment of a network in Russia. As you know, under our law, it is not possible to bring a disk into the territory of our country without a netodus. If there are disks in Ukraine without a grid, they are pirated disks, of course. Ukraine’s legislation does not allow this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, Ukrainian agrarian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u18	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[constituency 144, Odessa Region]] Thank you. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich! Indeed, adoption of the bill will allow copyright and adjacent rights to be protected when videograms, computer programs, or databases are distributed. At the same time, the project determines that those who violate its requirements will have administrative responsibility. But the current Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences does not establish responsibility for the illicit distribution of audiovisual works and phonographs. [[Article 164-9]] I mean, that's my question. How does this bill harmonize with the current Code of Administrative Offences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The other day, at the meeting of our science committee, we proposed another bill to bring all national legislation into line with the intellectual property of the TRIPS international agreement, and there were provisions for amendments to the administrative code. We and the lawyers have tried to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the adoption of the draft law that I just said these rights will be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u20	Assadchev Valeriy Mihailovich. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich! You know, officials can't leave this new branch of know-how alone. We remember Mr. Seminozhenko’s intention was to destroy the matter. Thank God the Supreme Council didn't let that happen. You decided to come in a little bit on the other side, and now you've come up with brands that you need to buy. It's actually an element of censorship. But I have a question. You know, I do court cases a lot because I'm a lawyer. I have not met many authors to appeal to the court about the violation of their rights. Why do you, officials, shout that you are defending copyright if you are the authors themselves. I've never heard of any resonant court case if the author had filed a suit against the court, defending his rights. That's the first question. Question two. I have a computer at home where I can write this CD myself, and now I have this technique, and you know it. How is this regulated now? Am I a pirate or am I allowed to distribute these records among my friends and so forth? You see, today the technique has reached so far, do you want to hold everyone's hand? It seems to me that it is again a deliberate project to either simply censor or destroy our production. Please answer my questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u22	Okay, thank you. First question about the courts. The problem is quite serious. We're talking to the authors, and the main reason they're telling us that they don't go to court is because they don't believe in a court decision because there are no experienced judges who might be in the copyright system, in the intellectual property system. I could say that for my part, I would call a dozen judges who already have experience in intellectual property preparation and who can make professional decisions. So our proposal was to create a specialized patent court, prepare people, and then the judges would make absolutely logical, competent decisions that are made in virtually every state. Not simple enough questions are copyright issues, intellectual property issues. So if the Supreme Council helps us to implement our proposal for a specialized court, it would benefit everyone: both the state and the authors, and all the people working in this area, and the judges too. The second question is about disk. Yeah, there's no big deal about rewriting the disk from the Internet. But according to legislation, you can use this intellectual property in your own needs, please, but in no way do you have the right to distribute it, that is to write it down for commercial use, for sale. That's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u23	Vernon Leonid Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u24	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear reporter! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that for two years in Ukraine, it's only about audio, video, etc. You protect copyright, and in all other forms of art, literature, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u26	That's how the Colosseum is today. My colleague Assadchev says what they don't do to court. Let's say I have a bearing on this, too, and I don't go to court, even though I'm being told that I'm a national or a poet now, or who, because on the radio, they don't advertise on TV anymore, or who's responsible, just sings something. I only get 50 bucks a year sometimes. And I am told that where the law is not being fulfilled, you must record, register, and carry us. So, excuse me, what are you taking 20 percent for protection and for finding something? Why is UT-1, why do other programs, our large palaces, at all, not consider it appropriate to provide you with registers of authors? That's the first one. And the second. If I file a lawsuit, they do not carry out the law’s name, and they will not be included in the program at all. That's why it's such a colossal. I'd like you to take care of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u27	Thank you. I would like to say a few words that the United States budget receives 4.5 percent from copyright, i.e. it receives the author and receives the budget. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Ukraine. And this problem that you've been dealing with, we're also taking care of it. Unfortunately, I can confirm that you are absolutely right in that no Ukrainian television company, including the national company, is paying the author a single copy today, using his works. We've done our best to have a small monitoring service in our state-owned copyright company, and today we're exercising our own control over every television company that uses without permission by the author of his rights. We have prepared an appropriate appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine because we need to put a dot on this issue. We've practically negotiated with all the radio companies, and now we've prepared a draft decree for the Cabinet of Ministers on lump sum payments. It's very difficult now to figure out how many times a television company in a month, let's say it violates copyright and how many times it takes to give it to someone. Some European countries went through lump sum payments, that is, some small payments have to be made once a year or once a quarter, or once a month, and then copyright societies, writers, composers, poets, our poets will begin to receive any funds. And then after a while, we could actually work out a scheme, like a company, using rights, we could pay directly for the use of this right. But the problem is quite difficult, and the problem is difficult. We made a deal with the first channel, with the Inter Channel, Mr. Riyashin, who is ready to meet, ready to pay the appropriate funds for the use of these rights in accordance with the Copyright Act. But unfortunately, there's a problem: they don't want the companies or the channels you talked about today to pay for copyright. We think it's necessary to form a public inspector's institute, and I think the Prime Minister will sign a decree soon enough, and even if there's one inspector in the area that we can control it. And yet we need to train our business to pay the author for his copyright, using his works. Unfortunately, they say, "We didn't pay until we paid." This is a serious problem. We have to go to court, and there are problems in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u28	Mikolo Vasilovich, your time is up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u30	The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please. You don't? Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Please. It will be followed by a national MP, Bespali, and you will be recorded. Please, Boris Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u31	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 223, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Having received this bill at the time of registration, I was, frankly, apprehensive, because we all remembered and epepoch, when a year ago, out of the supply, again, the Cabinet of Ministers was just walking in and trying to completely destroy the production of audiocompressions in Ukraine, generally laser discs. Thankfully, there was a way out of this, but unfortunately not completely. So it is surprising that I have studied this document with great care. After studying it, I was pleasantly surprised. In fact, the step forward is done, there's no more specs, there's no more night checks that were there. But what remains is sufficient reason not to accept this bill. We're offered branding on the grounds that it will allow us to stop the cloudy flow of intellectual Sam, which is actually going to Ukraine. But after a careful study, I concluded that this would allow censorship, which was already mentioned here. So I think that a new draft law with that name is needed, but with another text that would really meet European modern standards. I want to say that, by the way, we can compare the standards of this bill with those of the countries that impose it on us. First of all, this bill completely eliminates retail sales, because the requirements set out in Article 5 of the Code of Conduct for Marks apply only to wholesale producers. See, in order to obtain a stamp, a copy of the State Registration Statute is required. It's normal, but then every time you give a copy of the government's license, the documents that confirm the law, the contracts, and so on. [[In general, it is not clear why this should be done every time the statute provides for the State to register this activity.]] That is to say, all of this makes the bill impossible for market subjects. It's just monopolization. So I'm going to sum up what I'm going to say is that the goal of the actual, not declared, is to monopolize audio and video trade by some of the biggest entrepreneurs in this area and to put it under full state ideological control, as if we're too small. So I think, given just these circumstances, we should turn it back to reshape the government and in no way accept it even as a basis. [[And there are many other circumstances, and I have too little time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u32	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak. He will be followed by a national deputy, Joulinsky, instead of Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u33	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to repent and express some doubts. I broke out of this rostrum about the need to adopt the Intellectual Property Protection Act, the fight against piracy. Actually, I had good intentions, but we know where the road is with good intentions. In fact, what we do and do, on the one hand, leads to the destruction of the production of laser disks in Ukraine and audio, video products, and on the other hand, we have not reached a pragmatic goal. After we passed the law, the United States imposed sanctions against Ukraine. We wanted to protect our metallurgy, our shoe manufacturers, our textiles, our chemical products, and we thought that this would save them from sanctions. [[Personally, I had this motive.]] Sadly, though, this did not happen. Now it's about doubts. First. I share the view already expressed by Deputy Bespali, that the adoption of similar laws leads to the monopolization of the production of several or perhaps even one producer, and that in the final analysis it is not control, and it is re-censored. This is what we're worried about right now, Mikolo Vasilovich: is it copyright protection or is it censorship? Is this control or is it destruction? These are the problems that concern us. The other one. Does it protect intellectual property by adopting such laws? Second question. It is necessary to defend copyright, there is no doubt, but it is necessary to protect our authors, as the MP of Vernigor said when they are not paid for their production. Here, perhaps, your role should grow in order not to simply train, as you said, businessmen who use it but to commit themselves to being appropriate legal mechanisms, or legal ones, responsible for this use. And the third. You're saying there's been a decrease in pirate production. There's been less production in the world. Then we can really get to the minimum of production and we're going to fight in Lithuanians that we've been able to beat pirate production. So we destroy: Are we destroying production, or are we fighting pirate production? And are we destroying know-how, which is very important? By the way, our producers had know-how even compared to the Americans, they got ahead of them. The Americans used us to strangle competitors in Ukraine. Here are the real consequences. And finally, I agree with the observation that was made: if we really want to fight pirate production, but at the same time defend copyright and promote the development of this product in Ukraine, we have to adopt a liberal law aimed at promoting the domestic producer of laser disks and audio video products. And we have to reconcile this, of course, with administrative legislation, with the Criminal Code, and not just bend again before America and before Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u34	Please, Mikolo Grigorovitch. I'm asking you to stay on schedule, because we're taking a lot of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u35	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In this case, I cannot agree with my colleagues from the faction "Our Ukraine" -- the national MPs Bespali and Black. I think it's much deeper, and it doesn't have to be reduced to the problem of supporting a domestic producer. The point is, we need to get into the system of international law a long time ago. And we need a very clear, very well-planned system of legislation that needs to work both in support of a domestic producer, but at the same time also in control of this product, which now takes up the left-hand part of the shadow business, so to speak. And it's not even that they're trying to destroy us, our native producer. Let's look honestly at who behind these producers of this product stood, what forces, by the way, were present in that Parliament, and we were unable to control the distribution of this product. Today we have no control over the import of pirate products into Ukraine and the export of this product to Europe and the world. And this has created a major international problem and has led to some of the problems that we have today in Ukraine. I think that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, and the trouble is not that our artists, the writers don't bring it to trial, they don't believe in our court, they don't have the expectation that they're going to win this case, and they have the costs to bear. If they knew that this law would work, that their intellectual right would be guaranteed, they would go to court. But we don't have a control system, so let's look a little bit deeper into this problem. And we need to start and do everything we can to ensure that our national legislation meets international standards and is being implemented at the same time. Do we not all know that most of our laws are not being fulfilled, that they are being ignored?Oh, my God! That our scientists, artists, artistic intelligence today have no legal protection of their intellectual property or the right to manage it in accordance with international norms and laws. Is it normal that no one in Ukraine receives any copyright fees? And you see what our market is full of today, what kind of product? That's why I think I would very much like us to adopt this bill as a basis and work, and I think it meets the needs of our intellectual producer today and fits us into an international law system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u36	Thank you. People's deputy Matvienko. He will be followed by a national MP, Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u37	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues! Dear Mikolo Grigorovich! I'm quite supportive of you that the problem is, really, not whether or not there will be stamps. The problem is not how to regulate production today. The problem is much bigger than what you said, quite the opposite. The problem is, in any way, how to destroy the production of media in Ukraine, including CDs, how to own Ukraine's market, which has already been successfully done for a lot of products. And this is strategic production. This is a production that determines whether Ukraine will eventually enter, eventually from the foot and shovel into the information space or not. And it's clear that whoever owns the information owns the world. And today everything is done to ensure that Ukraine never possesses information, but that it is always in a slave state in which it is judged by great nations. And you should know that because you were in the government at the time. And you need to know that there is a secret protocol signed by Kuchma and Clinton that has undertaken to destroy the production of CDs in Ukraine. And this secret protocol I've been trying to read for three years, nobody gives it to me because it's not ratified, it's not declared, and today it's being carried out as a real policy. I strongly protested that in March we should adopt a law on so-called CD distribution regulation. Because I said this law would destroy production in Ukraine. As a result, Sir Mikolo Grigorovitch and his distinguished colleagues, I report that in Ukraine of the nine lines today, one is working alone. And that's where they want to close today! Ukraine had a budget of up to tens of millions since the production started in Ukraine. Today, Ukraine does not have any money in its budget, because we have policies of larceny rather than policies of protecting our own manufacturer. And until we learn to respect ourselves, no one in the world will respect us. You say we have to enter the world and coordinate our work. I'll give you one example of how the United States is acting, you obviously know that. They demand today that there be a $2-3 price for gasoline, for example, all over Europe, and they have 80 cents worth of gasoline. And that doesn't apply, let's say, to this country, because they're strong today. We're knitting. And what I'm saying is, the disgrace of the President who's been stringing, and he's long overdue; the disgrace of the Cabinet, who's doing the stupid President's orders today. And we will be disgraced, members of the Supreme Council, if we support a law aimed at destroying our own manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u38	Please, People's Deputy Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u39	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Mikolo Vasilovich! In this room 12 years ago, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky first made such a sensation that today looks paradoxical: we can live by the rules and richly by the European level if we put in place world prices. This is something we have similar to today's: let's address international law all our economic problems. International law is possible when its right to it is also applied to its economic situation. We know very well that Ukraine has become an offshore area for Russian goods. I wouldn't. If it were a high-quality Russian product, and when there's the same text that I hear on all the channels, and on all the discs that I'm meeting today, there's this text that says, "I loved you, and you didn't." It is all the filth that goes down into Ukraine that is flooding Ukraine. We don't settle this in the draft law. The comments are well written, and the draft law itself does not contain those norms. And I'd like more of this bill to be really about marking, but not just audio, video, but also books, because the book market is doing the same thing. I've already prepared a whole range of suggestions to expand this area, because if we're talking about an intellectual product, the book must be right here, in this register, and stand probably in the most important place. But what is happening? When the Fury, which comes from Russia, that crosses anywhere in Ukraine, there are books -- high-class publications, encyclopedias, and they say, like some booklets that cost 40 copies, and the cost of every issue there is at least 40 dollars, and it's all going absolutely and completely implemented, and it's not Ukraine, the middleman has, the middleman in the market, in Petrovka, in all Ukrainian markets, and some other officials in us that support this regime, and so I say that Ukraine is turning completely into an offshore zone for Russian low-quality production. Okay, when there's these encyclopedias that I'm talking about, all the garbage comes down here. And that's why I would ask the authors of this bill to think about that legal mechanism to protect the real, real country producer. I don't see it yet. The wonderful terms in this accompanying, in the draft law, the decryption of all categories, the notions, but we don't have enough of this, we need to work very seriously on this, I would suggest, perhaps even accept it in the first reading, but, most likely, we need to tend to the thought that was expressed here by both the Blackman and the Bespalian, that it should be returned to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u40	Thank you. Paul Mikhailovich, you said well that mediators are being exploited. If our middleman were still making money, there would be half-wrecks, and that's how the middlemen make money. Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the discussion. All those who have signed up have made a statement. As for the decision we're going to make next Thursday, September 26th. Let us now consider the draft Funeral Law. Reporter-in-charge of the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Alohin Volodymyr Illich. Volodymyr Illihu, how long do you need? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u41	Acting Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Housing and Utilities. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Council of National Commissioners of the USSR decree of June 1, 1919, "On Cemetery and Funerals" does not correspond to the political and economic changes that have been taking place in our society over the past years, does not provide a legislative basis for a comprehensive solution to problems related to the burial of dead citizens and the maintenance of burial sites. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has entrusted the Committee, together with other central executive bodies, with the aim of implementing the main directions for accelerating the reform of housing and utilities, to develop a draft Ukrainian Funeral Act. With the adoption of this law, it will be possible to regulate the legal and organizational arrangements for the burial of deceased citizens, taking into account the provision of ritual services and the implementation of objects of ritualism, as well as the construction, construction, maintenance, and preservation of burial sites. The task of the law is to combine state administration and local self-government in the area of funerals, to ensure equal rights of citizens to bury their bodies after death, to ensure adequate conditions for the population to form funerals and to guarantee the State in the provision of funeral services. This draft of the Ukrainian Funeral Law was first developed, and it consists of six chapters, which are combined into 33 articles. The main provisions of the bill are to guarantee the State the burial of deceased citizens, to ensure the equality of the rights of citizens to bury their bodies after death regardless of race, colour of skin, political and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, language and other status, to prevent the occurrence of non-burial of deceased citizens, to compensate the State for the cost of burial of the dead, to give free land to the cemetery or to the Colombians for burial of the deceased, to ensure the preservation of burial sites. This bill provides for the creation of a level playing field for enterprises of all forms of property in the provision of ritual services to the population. The draft law takes into account the basic principles on which funeral activity is based in Ukraine. In drafting the bill, we take into account the basic approaches, concepts and positions of similar acts of the SND countries, as well as the proposals of the central executive authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev and Sevastopol City Administrations, public organizations. With the adoption of the present draft law with the aim of creating an effective mechanism for its work, the following legal and regulatory acts will be further developed: the standard provision for ritual service, the procedure for the identification, calculation and burial of deceased single citizens and persons without a defined place of residence, the rules for the organisation of burial and ritual services in the localities, the methodology for the determination of the cost of ritual services and the implementation of ritual property in Ukrainian settlements, the order for the maintenance of cemeteries in Ukrainian settlements, the rules for the reception and execution of orders for the production and installation of super-powerful buildings in Ukraine, the rules for the use of crematory facilities in the localities. All other legislation in force will be amended and supplemented accordingly. The main social outcome of the adoption and implementation of the Ukrainian Funeral Law will be the creation of proper conditions for the shaping, quality organization of the burial of dead citizens, the perpetuation of the memory of the dead, the preservation of burial sites and their decent maintenance. With opportunity, honourable national MPs would like to ask the heads, representatives of factions and committees to support the bill presented in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the reporter if you have it. Because here they're telling me that we should be looking at this issue with an exit to the scene. Let me explain. National Deputy Noshchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u43	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[electoral district 160, Sumska oblast]] Your Honor, the relevance of this question is beyond question. And you have to take it on the first reading, I'll support it. But by exercising my right, I would like to ask some questions. First of all, how do you think to solve the question of the realization of the will to bury at another locality, if, for example, such incidents take place? The other one. In article 8, you practically compared local self - government and ritual services, and you put them in one line. In article 8, you wrote that the organization of burials is performed by ritual services and local authorities. That's right. But then in articles 16, 17, 18, it's clearly written, "Delivery is carried out by self-government." Next. What is the difference between free burial and burial at the expense of the local budget? Three questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u44	First. What is involved in the will and burial in another inhabited area is provided for in this draft law. And, indeed, it is the will of any citizen who can command him to be buried in one place or another. What is involved in the burial of municipal services that will provide burial services as well as local authorities? I mean, if there are cities and there are those services, that's one situation. And if a small populace and a village council do not, of course, have such a service, these questions will be put on local self - government bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u45	National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u46	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Illihu, you said that this bill provides for equal rights for all citizens regardless of political, property rights and so on. But the Councilman's decree also provided for these rights, and it's now in effect. And in practice, it was quite different. The fact is that the effective executive power in the white world has divided the people into the rich, the medium, and the vast majority of the poor. It's the same in that world. In the cemetery, they're practically rich in one prestigious place, middlemen in the next, and poor people in the bushes. So can't this stupidity be stopped under the current legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u47	Thank you. An important question. And that's why the draft law provides that there is no distinction between those citizens who have money in life or who have no nationality or race, and so that it is regulated by legislation. If we accept this bill, of course, there will be no basis for what you have been talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u48	National Deputy Vaschuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u49	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] "Agrarians of Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Illihu! The fact that the law is on time and that it is very good that it regulates such tribulation standards for the family is important. I have a question. How much will the bill offer to establish justice in the removal of land for these ritualistic needs? To date, we all know and understand, and all of Ukraine knows how much a burial place costs, especially in cities. And a lot of people just don't have it in their pocket. And we're all the same citizens of Ukraine, and we're already entitled to that little land area, absolutely all equal. So how much will this bill regulate justice in solving this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u50	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. In fact, you almost answered that question yourself. Sad to say, there are examples of funeral expenses in the city today. And they move from the city to the village, where they keep their money free. And that is why, at the time of the adoption of the law, every citizen of Ukraine has the opportunity to bury his loved ones and relatives for free. And if this draft law is adopted, of course it will be taken into account for the land to be made available free of charge. Because with the adoption of the earthly code, there are already some regions where everything has been ruined. And there won't even be room for burial. Therefore, the adoption of this draft law will further address all the issues that are now taking place in real life. But I am convinced that the second reading of this bill will take into account all possible thoughts, proposals from national MPs and all those who have the right to legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u51	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u52	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 55, Donetsk Region]] The city of Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich! The draft law is indeed necessary. And there is no doubt, I think, that there is no one here who should be resolved by law, rather than by the process that is unfortunately going on today. I am spared only one part of the relationship between the local authorities on the basis of this draft law and those structures of all forms of property that will take effect and which are given the right to do so. You are well aware that a mechanism must be clearly defined here. Local authorities must have sufficient influence over the draft law so that they can influence, control and force them to act in certain ways, in accordance with the traditions that have emerged in the region. And so on and so forth. So that it doesn't work out here that when we put this whole thing on a commercial basis, we just put the bracelet on the ransom, and the bracelet will rule the ball, not the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u53	Thank you. A significant observation, and it's coming out of the present again. But once again, there will be an additional standard position on ritual service, rules on funeral arrangements and ritual services in populated areas, conditions will be created to maintain burial sites or places reserved for Colombians, in order to keep these places in proper condition and in the manner that is appropriate in a civilized state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u54	People's deputy Semenyuk. Please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u55	I looked closely at the bill. Indeed, it is necessary to settle the issues of municipal property, including those of the local communities. I want to say that maybe with the work and observation of the Chief Scientific Administration, we should take it, but I want to look again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here's what. Today, this bill is practically a creasing of holes, because trifle is served. There must be a law on municipal property. By the way, this is a constitutional norm that provides for the adoption of such a law. We have a European Charter on Local Self - Rule, the Law on Local Self - Rule, and these holes are not patched up, they don't give us the right ones. And you see, there's a lot of comments. So, I think, yes, the Supreme Council needs to set priorities, there's a Constitution, there must be principles, there should be a law on municipal property, and we need to adopt it and write it all down, not do it. I think if it had been a funeral for our men who robbed people before September 16, it would have been better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u56	Thank you. And I can add one. Today, even though housing and utilities are not fully regulated, there are two reasons for this: accounts receivable and accounts payable amount to more than 8 billion dollars, this is our joint work -- both to the government, and to the legislative body to work together. We cooperate with the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications, and we will continue to work on any comments that are needed in the near future. It may partly address those issues that have just been discussed, the adoption of a new Housing Code, where many issues will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u57	Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u58	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. I haven't learned how to record yet, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u59	But they signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u60	Well, it's written down. How does it sound like a funeral or a funeral? And how, in your opinion, does it not provoke some of the cheerful thoughts of the term "ensure equality of citizens' rights to bury their bodies"? Of course, once a man has died, his rights have been fulfilled. Maybe change something in stylism? Because it's getting a little creepy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u61	I see. Dear Boris Illihu, these questions will be taken into account in the second reading. Indeed, there are some reasons for a stylistic solution to some questions, and they will be taken into account in furthering the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u62	Thank you. National MP Bespali. None. Orzhachovsky, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u63	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist Party faction, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Illihu, I support your bill in the first reading, I will vote for it, because I believe that this will, in fact, be a legal aid in the systematic work of self-government authorities in the places in question. However, I do have a few questions for you. First. Do you not think that the proposed draft law will provide more answers to questions about urban funerals? As for rural areas, it's going to be like a statement and it's going to be like a recommendation, because we know that there's usually no cost of funerals, no cost of well-being, no transfer costs, no cost of opening new graveyards. [[And I personally know because I've worked for years in lower self-governance.]] So what is your position on this? The other one. Your attitude toward the unsanctioned location today around the roads of monuments of various kinds, stoves, and so forth? Is this the norm of this draft law, or is this the norm of the Administrative Code? And the third question is, how do you feel about the proposal of the Chief Scientific Administration to predict the burial of domestic animals? Is that too much, since we can talk about pets today, and we have many animals in general? Well, it's probably the last one. You're suggesting a new kind of burial is the development of the dust. Are we also setting a mine and a health problem here? And accordingly, you know, there's no money for the funeral today, everything could be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u64	Thank you. The first question is about rural areas and burial in rural areas. In fact, today there are such conditions that there is no single service for the rural utility network. If there were previously collective agricultural enterprises and they played the role of communal farming, there is no such service today. The program, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, clearly defines the integration of rural utilities into the single area of housing and utilities. For this purpose, the President's decree was to set up a State Committee on Housing and Utilities, which to date must carry out a single state policy in the housing and utility system, including in rural areas. Earlier, you know what the legislation said: housing and utilities in cities and villages. Today, there is no such trailer -- in cities and villages -- that's the only complex and only organism. And that's why we're now working with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy on how to integrate the rural utility sector into the housing and utility system, and that's where we're going to take these issues into account. An attitude toward unsanctioned monuments Of course, they can be settled and banned, but if they do not interfere with the traffic and if they are properly set up, perhaps today they should not be touched, it is a memory of places where our fellow countrymen or citizens have died, and perhaps today we need to learn more. As far as the burial of animals is concerned, perhaps today this issue should be raised, but not in the draft Funeral Law, it must be another document to address the question of what to do next with animals that have died: burn, bury, or otherwise. Dust development. You know, there are some cases when a citizen's will asks after cremation to dissipate his ashes, but, in fact, there is a observation by the Chief Scientific Administration that there is a need for careful study of both sanitary and epidemiological conditions, and others, so this question will be taken into account in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Time's up. Does anyone insist on asking questions? Please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Illihu! I understand that we have failed to ensure equality of human rights in life, and we are trying to ensure equality of human rights after death. This is a noble goal, but it requires some funding. I'm interested in the financial side of the case, how will the financial side be ensured that this bill is implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u67	Saying that it would be budgeted would probably be wrong, although the burial and the Heroes of Ukraine and the Heroes of Social Work are expected. There is a complete list of citizens who are buried at the expense of government executions, and there is a list of citizens who are buried at the expense of local authorities. If, for example, it is a person without a specific place of residence, it is certainly considered that burial takes place at the expense of the local government’s budget. And there's still a lot of reason to settle this right now, because even when we adopt the Budget Code, we haven't fully settled these points, and now there's an opportunity to work on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u68	Thank you, Volodymyr Illihu, time is up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I asked who was insisting. Deputy Bondarenko. Please, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u69	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[electoral district 219, Kiev]] "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Illihu! Today, there are many foreigners of Ukrainian descent who show the will to be buried in their historic homeland. How do you see the solution to this problem, including in this draft law, or on what basis these funerals can be performed and should not special provisions be developed in this draft law?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u70	It would probably be appropriate, considering your question, and we've already dealt with this issue on the committee, what this situation should be to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u71	Thank you. Head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Construction, Transportation, and Communications, Reznik Igor Josephovich. Please. REZNIK?.J., head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport and Communications. [[electoral district 135, Odessa region]] Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications considered the draft Law on the Funeral Affairs, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The main objective of this bill is to determine the legal and organizational principles for the burial of deceased citizens with the provision of ritual services and the implementation of objects of ritual belonging, as well as the creation, maintenance and preservation of burial sites. For more than 80 years, the problem of burying dead citizens and providing ritual services has been regulated by the Decree of the Council of National Commissioners of the Soviet Union since 1919. Ukraine has entered into a series of agreements with European countries regarding the well - being of cemeteries and the care of the graves of wartime survivors. Legislative solutions are needed for building, furnishing, maintaining, and preserving burial sites. The committee in June of this year reviewed the bill at its meeting. The proposal of the Chief Scientific Administration was considered. In general, the Committee agrees with the above observations, but we believe that the order of burial of aliens and stateless persons, the order of movement of dust across the state border, as well as the observations set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 on the use of funds, savings of medical facilities, boarding facilities, etc. and funerals with military duties may be regulated by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the committee fully agrees with the need for a clearer regulation of the standard of burial, such as the development of the deceased’s powder with the necessary additional conclusions of the health - care authorities. The committee does not support the proposal to introduce rules on the burial of domestic animals into the bill. It's not this bill, it has to be governed by another law. The committee believes that the text of the bill has been thoroughly worked out, and the comments made can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. In light of the above, we propose to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Funeral Affairs as a basis and to support the draft decree we have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please. National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u73	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. [[constituency 123, Lviv region]] Yavorowski, Jovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! You know, the fate of our people is that the remains of many sons of Ukraine are scattered around the world, and behind each one is some tragic biography. For example, the question is to move Alexander Long’s body to Ukraine or, for example, Eugene Konovaltz. I could call and call a lot of these names. I understand that there's an aspect and an international aspect, because these remains have to be taken from other states, by the way, just like the bodies of the Chernobyls buried in Moscow, that's the problem. Would we be able to solve this problem with the Ukrainian side if, let's say, not in the first reading, if, in the second reading, we thought about the future, the bodies of these people, the great people, were to move them here and bury them here in Ukrainian land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u74	This question was discussed at a committee meeting. We think it should be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers, because it's about crossing the border. It's going to have to be on the second reading, I think, because there's a bunch of examples where we have to do this. So I think we need to adopt this bill as a basis now, and then, in preparing for the second reading, we're going to think that we need to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u75	Is there another question? None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u77	Let's move on to the discussion. National deputy of Matvienkov. He will be followed by a national MP, Mihovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u78	The city of Mariupol. Dear friends! We are well aware that this bill has come to light, it is indeed necessary, it is indeed necessary, because what is happening in this direction today, in this area, I would not like to say that word, but sometimes reminds us of the bounds, sometimes in general the power of some certain structures that are working in this direction. And, of course, I wouldn't want that to go on. To date, there has been the largest number of firms involved. Each sets its own rules, each sets its own standards, each of them acts as it deems necessary. Of course, these processes are not regulated today. We understand and know that bribery is flourishing, that interest is in the cemeteries of the central alleys, there is a periphery in the void, there are abandoned graves in the desolation, which can then be buried, as you know. Basically, it shouldn't be long to speak, because it's a matter of order, it's a long time. And this law is long overdue, all you have to say is thank you to the initiators for writing it. But since the problem is very complex, it naturally raises a lot of questions for the bill itself. Undoubtedly, it should be taken on first reading and refined. But I would like to focus some attention on certain points. First of all, what I've said is relations with local authorities. That's the biggest and most painful question. How? If they are enterprises of all forms of property, if the cemetery is fully transferred, they will establish the rules of the game, and relations here with local authorities should be clearly spelled out and settled. Local authorities must have sufficient power and leverage to influence these processes, especially when burying the disadvantaged, especially in the event of the burial of persons without a permanent residence. That's the first one. Second. The law should clearly state the obligations to maintain and maintain the entire cemetery, in particular the firms involved in the work. All of this must be clearly stated and defined in the legislative field. Price policy must be clearly defined and written, which is essential in these circumstances. Price regulation is, so to speak, a thankless but yet the upper price limits for the poor must be written out in some way. There's only one thing I want to do. The bill should be adopted in the first reading, it is clear that it needs to be worked on very seriously, perhaps even through some consultations, I stress once again, with the local authorities, several committees should work on the document to adopt a law that would really put an end to the issue and resolve the relationship in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u79	Migovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u80	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, guests! At first glance, it may seem to some that the question that is too ordinary for Parliament is now being considered. But without exaggeration, it can be said that this is a special bill, for a number of reasons. Its currentity is more than evident, for each person, and more than once, suffers the loss of loved ones. Then, under stress, many problems have to be solved, too difficult to deal with. Each suffers both material and moral losses. Just minimize them and call for the bill under discussion. I would also like to add that this is a document of great social significance, for the level of the funeral service depends very much on the culture of life, the attitude toward parents, the sick, the victims, and, above all, the concern for the living, that is, the wide range of spiritual and social issues. In view of this, I support the bill under discussion. And with a view to improving it, it is appropriate, in our view, to specify certain terms, particularly in articles 1, 4 and some others, to add words or "civilized" or "appropriate" or some other quality characteristic of giving a burial. Article 5 adds national traditions, religious practices, and other features to national standards and standards of burial. This is in article 24, but by the way, it would be worth the effort. In article 8, it is appropriate to provide for the approval of a standard position on ritual service, not by district utilities, but by regional governments. In article 12, which deals with free burial, it is imperative to complete the list of worthy titled Mother Hero. We also need to pay attention to the linguistic sins that Boris Ilych was talking about here and to the increased responsibility that my predecessor noted. In general, once again, the bill is absolutely necessary because we are a dying nation. In just eight months of this year, 240 thousand people have died, many premature, as a result of poverty and abuse. The rest, the most conscious and courageous, we hope, will protest this September 16th. We are concerned that 7 million have gone to waste this year. The increase in mortality only requires the adoption of the draft law. It should be accepted as quickly as possible in the second reading and final reading. And the main thing is to reorient the executives, the control and economic enterprises, to make order in this delicate, important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Are there any more speakers? None. Let's get this over with. Dear colleagues, I think we should ask the committee to finalize this bill so that we can adopt it on the first, second, and generally as a law next Thursday. I would ask the committee to also take into account the correct comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, as discussed in the speeches and comments made by the National Deputies. Let us now consider the draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. Reporter: Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics Schmidt Roman Mikhajlovich. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. Up to 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u82	Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Agricultural Promotion Act 2001-2004, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 January last year, states that one of the priorities of agricultural policy is to form a network of agricultural advisory services. The President of Ukraine's decree of 21 February this year on further measures to address the social problems in the rural and further development of the agricultural sector, and of 5 March this year on measures to detune Ukraine's economy for 2002-2004, provides for the use of rural development measures for a network of agricultural advisory services to provide advisory, information, legal services to agricultural producers and the rural population. These measures have led to a fundamental change in the agricultural sector of Ukraine in recent years in the process of agrarian reform. They gained special development with the adoption of the Presidential Decree of 3 December 1999 on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector, which has resulted in the reform of collective agricultural enterprises. However, new businesses and agriculture have faced some problems in modern market conditions. These are the most remarkable of them. More than 25 percent have increased the number of new owners who should make their own informed management decisions in full autonomy and personal responsibility for the final outcome of their activities. In 30 percent of households, the change in organizational and legal forms of farming has led to the replacement of managers who have virtually insufficient managerial experience, as well as the experience of practical work in market conditions. In new enterprises, the proportion of skilled agricultural specialists is only 9 percent of the total number of employees. Farmers and owners of private agriculture especially need to increase the level of knowledge and information from technological issues and marketing of agricultural products. A real owner of the land and its means of production has led to a new approach to liability for the end result of economic activity, a responsibility to property that provides for management solely on a profitable basis. The market faced by agricultural producers causes production to take place under the constraints of material, financial and other resources and the underdevelopment of the agricultural market and infrastructure. This requires the principle of new knowledge and practical skills in making balanced, alternative management decisions, decisions in terms of limited resources. Agricultural advisory services, on the one hand, will help agricultural producers to make a profitable business and, on the other hand, will contribute to national agrarian policies, to the effective development of the agricultural sector, to the integration of science into production, and to the improvement of the standard of living of the rural population. The elements of the advisory activity are already being implemented in practical terms through international technical assistance projects, with donors: The European Union, which helps to create advisory services in the Lugansk, Mikolayivsk, Chernigovsk oblasts, as well as the training and advisory centre in Kiev; the United States Agency for International Development, which helps to create advisory services in the Winnicki, Cherkaske and Hmelnik oblasts; the British Ministry of International Development - in Donetsk, Odesske, Kyiv region; the Canadian International Development Agency - in Volinsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Ravensk region; the German Government - in Vinicki, Cherkaske and soon in the Kirovgrad areas; and the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the National Agrarian University and other agrarian education institutions. In addition, independent agricultural advisory services are already operating in Ukraine. This is the Lviv Agrarian Advisory Service, the Agro-Tavria Information and Advisory Centre in Melitopol, Zaporozhye, and the Crimean Agrarian Agrarian Advisory Centre. Therefore, the purpose of the draft Ukrainian Agricultural Advisory Act is to regulate agricultural advisory activities and to create conditions for the development of agricultural advisory services in Ukraine. The main tasks of the draft law are to increase the level of knowledge and to improve the practical skills of agricultural producers, the rural population, the natural and legal persons. Providing advice to farmers and rural communities, physical and legal persons on management, marketing, the application of modern technology and the social development of rural areas. Providing practical assistance to farmers, rural populations, natural and legal persons in the development of income - management methods in market economy conditions, distribution, transfer and implementation of modern science, technology and technology in production. Contributing to executive authorities and local self-government authorities in the implementation of State agrarian policies The latter position is very important in view of the fact that advisory services will be carrying out explanatory work in rural areas on government programs in agriculture. For example, the conditions for receiving subsidies, grants, extended loans, and so on. This, in turn, will help farmers and farmers to understand the agricultural policy and help to avoid misunderstandings between the rural population and the authorities. The draft law provides for State support for agricultural advisory activities by financing exclusively the social services needed, which will be determined by the agricultural advisory work programme. Commercial advisory services that provide additional income or cost savings for a particular agricultural advisory activity will be provided at the expense of the customer. The implementation of the draft law provides for the development and implementation of agricultural advisory programmes that will be approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and financed within the Ministry’s expenditure, as well as regional agricultural advisory programmes that are implemented at the expense of local budgets according to regional social development programmes. The draft Ukrainian law was approved by the government on May 29 of this year and addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 3 of this year. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Please support this very important project for the further development of agriculture and the improvement of the standard of living of the rural population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. I think you have them. Please point it on the board. Ten minutes to ask. Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys, faction of agrarians. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u84	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] "Agrarians of Ukraine." Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Before asking you a question, I would like to stress that I am sure to support this bill and that I will ask all the members of the Supreme Council to do so. And that's why. Because business structures, other structures besides manufacturers, have their powerful advisory services, usually strong experts, lawyers. And a simple manufacturer or one who just starts his business is lagging behind. That is why we need to support them at the expense of our national law. But I'd like to ask you a question: would you please tell me, these structures are going to be an alternative to managing agriculture in the area, is that going to be a completely different direction? I think this question will be in most of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor Michael Vasilovich, for that question. You know that since 2000, the government has tried to prepare a draft law and to explain extensively the purpose and purpose of the advisory services. In fact, a draft decree by the President of Ukraine concerning the introduction of agricultural advisory services in the administration of agriculture was prepared. For a long time, we went to a model of agricultural advisory work, the agricultural advisory services themselves. We chose a state model, a model at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, at the National Agrarian University, other educational institutions. And finally, we've come to a balanced, coherent position that agricultural advisory services should be independent structures, that is, they should partially receive financial support from the state to provide the socially needed advisory services, that is, those that are now non-profitable, but which will in the future contribute to the profitable management of agriculture by farmers, farmers, and various farms. On the other hand, they will be able to provide commercial services — those entities that can pay for these services that are interested in maximizing their income. Therefore, agricultural advisory services will not be an alternative to agricultural management. By the way, new approaches are being developed to the vertical management of agriculture in the state. On the contrary, they will also help local authorities to manage agriculture, thereby clarifying and implementing government agrarian policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u86	Mikhailo Kosov. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u87	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine." Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Interesting, of course, is the bill you proposed to us today. This problem that you report has a big history in Ukraine, because I know from the publications of many editions of the past century: such public organizations in Ukraine were. For example, there was a magazine called the Kribob of Ukraine and there was an organization called the Landlord. For example, Mikhailo Dragomanov - a great scientist - even organized a union called the "Gromada", not that that Paul Ivanovich then organized, which also dealt with agriculture. So would it be possible in the context of the implementation of this bill to restore the popular editions of this issue that you are talking about? And the second. I would like to draw attention to another aspect, one of which was touched by my talk by Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys: Will not those advisory organizations working in the field of, say, lobbying the interests of the agricultural producer themselves engage in the implementation of agricultural production? Will they then become another such economic structure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u88	Thank you very much, Mikhail Vasilovich, for this question and mentioning that, in 1899, Galicín was founded a company called "The Village Host", which, in fact, had little to do with raising the culture of farming of the rural population, which helped farmers to explain through various publications, advice, publications, through different magazines, how better to grow livestock, how better to grow crops, which protections existed at that time against diseases? This was also done by various cooperatives, such as the Maslos Union, which also had its advisers. And that's when, at the end of the 19th century, advisory services all over Europe began. As you know, in all but countries of the European Union, North America now has or is functioning such advisory services. So we set our first goal for them to act solely in accordance with the law and to act or give our advice not only by communicating with people but also by issuing various tips: through magazines, brochures, via video broadcasts, audio broadcasts, various newsletters and so on. [[If you accept this bill, and we're very much asking you to do so.]] So, indeed, these advisory services will contribute to the mass issuing of such advice to the rural population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u89	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u90	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter! Tell me, please, we're talking today about adopting this bill about, as it were, democracy in making decisions on the agricultural sector. What document and with whom were you consulted when you adopted the Earth Code, where the illegal decision of the Supreme Council was passed on to administrations? After all, the head of the administration now personally determines to whom the land is given, where it is given. Was it democracy or not? That's the first question. And the second. We have the Law on Public Unity. Previously, there was a council of collective agricultural enterprises and an association of farmers. If we're going to talk about this counseling board right now, we're going to have to come up with a light industry, a chemical, a cosmic one, and we're going to start sharing our professions: doctors, teachers, that sort of thing. There is the Law on Public Unity, let us act. There was to be counsel when the Earth Code was adopted, then there would be no blood present in the Kharkiv region today. So I strongly object to this draft law and I want to say, let's, as MPs, consult with our constituents, and you, as representatives of the Ministry, watch what happens there, not give me credits, that everything about the land is determined by a lawsuit. You accepted, you filed these papers, and now the blood is pouring out, and you don't want to be responsible. So let us consult first and then submit the relevant documents to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u91	Thank you, Reverend Valentino Petrovno. With regard to the first question, counselors or agricultural advisory services have the objective of clarifying the position of each law that is applied to producers or to rural people in general for advisory services. Therefore, this draft law is not subject to the Earth Code. As for the second question, I have to tell you that agricultural advisory services are not councils, they're not for farmers or for agricultural enterprises, they're professional services that provide advice to farmers and farmers. I would like to remind you, dear Valentino Petrovno, that we were with you in 1995 in the United States, and for the first time, by the way, we were familiar with agricultural advisory services. You may recall that there was a lecture there by the professor on the introduction of advisory services in Russia. It was 1995. I think you'll recall this situation and change your mind about how you feel about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u92	National MP Billorus of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u93	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear reporter! You just mentioned your tour to the United States. I have been in the United States since 1970 and have lived and seen. And so the first question I have is, why do you call advisory services all over the world this is called agro-consultation services? Counselors are illegal, even without the right to make written recommendations. So the money will be taken from the farmer, one liter of velvet will drink in the house, two pounds of hall will eat and go, and they need to issue a computer document for chemistry, veterinary, zootechnics, seeds, and answer. That is, legal advisers — with rights, responsibilities and responsibilities, including material ones — pay after receiving the result, not in advance. So I would advise you not to call it "consulting" but "consulting" services. Earlier, there were 30 specialists in the cologne, if he had 5,000 acres of land, and today he had none. Where will you attach them? To whom? For what? To the village council or to the church? There's no such thing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u94	Thank you very much for that question. In fact, in the United States the advisory service is called Exenshi Service, and it works at universities solely for state support. Similarly, counseling is called in Canada. It works with the Ministry of Agriculture solely for state support. In Europe these advisory services are called Wweiser Services. They work independently and finance between 30 and 50 percent at the expense of the state and earn the rest on their own. If, in our current circumstances, they're completely free-swimming advisory services, so to speak, and don't give them state support, they just won't survive. There is an experience in 1993 when there were first attempts to create advisory services to support international technical assistance projects. They immediately fell apart as soon as the project’s support ended. Therefore, we ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the position of the draft law on State support for advisory services. As far as the name is concerned. Well, we tried to call it Ukrainian. Consulting is not a Ukrainian word. It's a Ukrainian word. And the counsellor's job is not to force a farmer, a farmer who owns a private farm, a manager of a private farm, or any other private agricultural enterprise. No! No! He has to advise the man - in - law: You will have that effect if you walk that road. If you choose this kind of farming scheme, you'll have this effect, you'll have to choose. This is not the responsibility of the counselor, but of the host himself, for he is responsible for the results of his activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u95	Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u96	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. I think the honourable colleagues that the Huttarian system in the state should certainly serve the councillors, and you have a point in that. And Ukraine is not a hamster state, we have an agro-industrial complex that's broken down with your help. It was a closed system, from production to implementation. Today, you want to impose on Ukraine a hunting system with counseling, what Belarus said, to consult. And to whom will you bind? We have the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. You've been counseled, replaced by secretaries and deputy secretaries. This has already been counseled by those foreign advisers who are now in all areas, and you have listed them. It's the residents who are doing the demolition of the agro-industrial complex, and I think you're representing them, you and those who support you. That's why I have this question. Tell me, who, and why is today introducing such a bill to provide us with more business services in Ukraine that would be parasitic to a farm worker who is now destitute?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u97	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. Well, for the first part of your question, I probably won't answer because it doesn't apply to this bill. As for the second part. It's not just business structures, Alexander Mikolayovich. But everyone knows, honourable national MPs, that in the village people today have no information, where to sell products, at what price, where to take credit at the highest interest rates, which technology is used today when growing potatoes, for example, which potatoes are the best way to protect them from the same bugs by safe methods and so on. [[They didn't have it once -- let's say, 10 years or 20 years ago.]] Today, there are a lot of questions in rural people that they have already addressed to existing agricultural advisory services that not only work in the area, they work in the areas, they have access to every farmer, they collect seminars from time to time, they talk about news: what new technologies have emerged, what new trends in agribusiness are being observed today. This is their primary function. So I ask you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, to support this bill because it does not apply to the position of your question that you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u98	Time's up. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Dear colleagues, how would you like to deal with such an offer if we worked without interruption until 1:00, and then we'll hold a meeting after the "Variance" takes place? [[I'd like to say yes to her.]] Is there any objection? Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tomic Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u101	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations considered the bill and decided to support it unanimously in the first reading. We've come out of the real situation and the social order that's been going on in recent years. Today, more than ten years have passed since the country’s advisory centers in Ukraine began to be established. And examples of the activities of such advisory centres may be: The district of Zaporozhye is Agrotavria, the Lviv district is the Lviv Advisory Service, the Ternopil district is the Information and Advisory Centre, the West Ukrainian Information and Advisory Centre. [[That's what today was all about.]] This is the cooperation of the University of Wynnitz with the American University of Louisiana. Scientific and scientific research institutions, such as the National Agricultural University and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, also actively worked with these advisory services. A large part of the agricultural producers of various forms approached the centres and received appropriate information advice. Unfortunately, today we have not created a system of advisory services in Ukraine, and this is a reality. This is primarily due to the creation of a legal base, as well as to the support of the State. As evidenced by the experience of more than 120 countries where advisory services are created and functioning, support began primarily with the support of the state. So, clearly, without the support of the State, initiating the creation of information and advisory services is not realistic. The most rational model is the provision of comprehensive assistance in agrobusiness, management, and technology transfer for market-driven production, support for rural entrepreneurs, and more than just rural entrepreneurs. System activity should primarily be geared towards the transfer of information, knowledge, technology, science, accounting, and marketing. And most of all, what needs to be put into the strategy of creating advisory services is to help create profitable farms with good management, competitive both in the external and in the internal markets. It's important, and advisory services are just called upon to form profitable farms regardless of their size and competitiveness, and experience shows that different forms of farming need different services -- both informational and advisory. Is Today’s Bill Perfect? Far from it. First of all, is this evidence of the conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration, where it comes to whether only natural and legal persons can provide services? It is quite clear that these comments can be taken into account in the second reading. The other is the sources. In addition to the budget and in addition to the agricultural producer, other sources of funding for the advisory services system can be included: this is also technical assistance that has been provided by donor countries in recent years. This can also be taken into account in furthering the second reading. Dear National Deputies! Because peasants need information and counseling, I don't think you should be convinced. I think we're depriving Ukrainian peasants in many ways today. This is also evidenced by the price policy that has arisen when almost one liter of milk is needed for one kilowatt of electricity today. This is today also the development of infrastructure, the development of agricultural services, and financial cooperation, where it is the advisory services that are supposed to form commodity flows to benefit the agricultural producer. So let's support, give information, knowledge for our peasants' better lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u102	Questions to John Fedorovich? Please sign in, please. Please point it on the board. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u103	"Our Ukraine." Dear colleague! I'm impressed by your position, I'm convinced that, indeed, the previous system of Ukrainian peasants has made a screw, taking away any initiative, the ability to solve absolutely on its own, not the problems of planting it on its own, but on a larger scale. I'm in solidarity with you. But then yesterday, you and I adopted, like, 12 to 15 laws. Well, that's okay. We are now enacting a law on village advisory services. And I'm starting to think that maybe tomorrow we're going to have to lay down a law on the removal of manure, the law on sowing, the law on sowing tomorrow, we're going to have to do a law on, let's say, swallowing, and then the law on harvesting and all that. [[help me solve this problem]] Do we not make our legislation absurd when we try to make law at every opportunity? From my point of view, we need to make a normal, what is there, you know, in farms in the West, an information service where a farmer learns from a computer in five minutes, what is the price, let's say, of fuel, what is the price of mineral fertilizer, what is the price of bread that he has grown and so on. Now we're going to create, I'm afraid, a large bulk structure, part of the money will go out of the budget, part of it will be financed, as reported by the deputy secretary, the buyers themselves. I'm very afraid that this money is going to be stolen, that this service is going to be a quasi-service that the peasant can't help anything that just sits on his head. If you can, correct my pessimistic mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u104	Thank you very much. The history of the advisory services that the national deputy of Kosovo spoke of today is Ukrainian. This is understandable. And what we are doing today is legally enabling us to create advisory services in Ukraine, which is a potential that's accumulated in practice, a potential that's accumulated in science, through the information system, we're giving it access to products of different forms of organization. Where is the protection against the formation of a cumbersome structure? I am convinced today that it will not come about, because in ten years we have not been able to create such a system, because there has been no support for the state. [[The results of the activity are available]] I don't think there's going to be too much money today to form a cumbersome structure. But clearly the mechanisms in the world are convincing. If there is no social service contract from the manufacturer, the state should not finance it. If there is a social need, the state finances. The start is partly financed by the state, partly by the producer. The dynamics of these relationships will be based on need. And in doing so, we will be supporting the social order of those who need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u105	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u106	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[constituency 65, Žitomirsk region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! The fact that this bill is extremely important is that people who actually work in the agricultural sector are convinced. Today, agricultural services, zootechnical services, veterinary services that are highly unskilled in rural areas may be known by those who work directly in agriculture. This bill is absolutely necessary, but I have a few questions, and I think it should be reflected in the law. First. The cost of service and the responsibility of advisory services for the advice they provide. [[Because it's going to be monopolized.]] And the second. Do you not think that agricultural administrations, after the creation of advisory services, are virtually no longer needed? We could save money spent on agriculture and refocus it on consulting services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u107	Thank you so much for asking. As far as the cost of service is concerned. The bill provides for the establishment of a national advisory centre. And the center at the Ministry will approve the cost of services for some sort of advisory information service. As far as agriculture administrations are concerned. I agree with you 100 percent that the conditions in the production structure have changed radically. Therefore, it is necessary to change the management function. But to say that management is not necessary, I think it will also be unfair, and that is what the discussion is about for a long time. Other questions. What purpose and protection do these people need to give? This question needs to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u108	A word for the question is given to Slabenko Sergey Ivanovich. Please turn on Slabenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u109	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[electoral district 19, Volinsk region]] The faction of our Ukraine. I also have questions, and perhaps counsel at the same time. I would like to draw attention to the status of these organizations that will be created. On the one hand, we hear that this is a nonprofit organization. Second, we hear that they will be engaged in commercial activities. Accordingly, if they engage in commercial activities, these services will begin to be taxed on added value. And so I would like this bill to take into account the proposal for a change or definition of this status. And the second part. It's probably only right if we look at other laws at the same time, so that at least the cost of such services would be for the value of the goods. And at the same time, I'd like to ask a question. How much do you think the adoption of this bill will solve the whole set of issues that are in the agricultural sector today? I mean, aren't we going to replace some of the functions of other government agencies with the adoption of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u110	Thank you. As far as taxation is concerned. It is clear that if the sources of funding are budgeted and the costs of non-sensory producers, it is clear that there is absolutely no point in adding to the cost structure through the tax system. A clear position: Tax should not be taxed, and it must be regulated by law. With regard to whether the bill on advisory services will solve problems? It's my responsibility to say no, of course not. But with the adoption of the law on advisory services, we will begin to form a structure that should allow manufacturers of different forms of farming to improve their business. That's the main thing. If we can't give the fish today, we have to give the bug -- the principle is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sit down, Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u113	Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain who signed up for the discussion. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! This bill, which is accepted, has both a positive side and a negative side. We have a unique situation in Ukraine. The advisory service is built on the model of services that exist in foreign lands and have good experience in activities such as Canada, France, and elsewhere. We have a unique situation because we have a strong management branch of agriculture, where good specialists, good managers, are working, and it's still being preserved. And the second. In no country has such a highly developed, branched system of agrarian science as in Ukraine. In Ukraine today, there are more than 150 different research institutes, stations, that are institutions where highly qualified agrarian scientists work. So it would be good if the bill was expanded considerably before the second reading, for today it is more methodological than one that will force the service. As for me, these services need to be done on the basis of scientific centres, research institutes, research stations that were once, complementing them with those specialists that are now needed both to form an internal market for agricultural production and to explore the possibilities of going to the external market, because they are the weak side with which probably the least-known agricultural workers are. [[That's where the experts really work.]] A well - developed network of legal advice should also be available in the advisory service. On what do we today have the greatest stumbling block? During the signing of the lease agreements, our peasants cannot know so much about renting land, and those who rent it are well aware and aware of the conditions that a peasant can either not break the agreement, or at the time of his breakup he remains in the loss. This is the task of such advisory services. So in preparing a bill for second reading, and for both the committee, and for us, deputies, we need to complement our science in creating such advisory services, and clearly write this system that I'm talking about, legal services, creating an understanding of the agricultural market in today's conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. The word is given to the Cloud of Stéphane Ilkovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u116	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, comprehensive assistance is needed for agrarian workers, including counselling. But I'm kind of surprised by this bill, and I think in order to solve the problems in the country, it's not necessary to start with that, but first of all, you probably need to start with the restructuring of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy itself, the reanimation of the work of our scientific institutions, the scientific research institutions. They're broken up, and they're broken up with some of the staff of today's officials, including the Department of Agrarian Politics, I'm not going to call them. In order to solve those problems first, it would be necessary to radically change price policy, because we now have such an imbalance that we have the most vulnerable producer of agricultural raw materials. [[And it's supposed to be a state policy.]] There is an imbalance between agricultural producers and end-products, as well as industrial prices, fuel materials, plant protection products, and so forth. So if this approach is to be applied, of course, the advisory points should be in the agricultural administrations, which, in my opinion, do not need to be broken down, just need to work effectively, be staffed by good professionals, including lawyers, agronomists, zootechnicians, vets, managers, and so on. All necessary specialists who could provide advice to advocate appropriate national policies to defend the interests of our agricultural producers. And in general, we need to ask questions about aid, subsidies to agricultural workers, addressing the issue of fair long-term lending to agricultural workers. And in this bill, which I'm proposing, I see one thing -- creating a little bit more, maybe a little, but a little something for smaller officials. I think it's absolutely necessary in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's finish. And please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! I think it was very difficult for the rapporteur to argue the relevance of the bill. Even more difficult and poor, he answered the questions asked by the chairman of the committee. I liked the question of Yavorowski. I understand that he's seen things over the past 11 years and in a very different way, agriculturalally, he's looking at what's happened in our country, and that's what I'm saying. Why? Because I remember my time as head of the state agribusiness complex, Yavorowski and a farmer from Australia came to see me. And, of course, he brought me to the head of Derjagroprom, to the office of a laborer, a person with great intelligence, a person who sees the development of an agro-industrial complex in Australia, but didn't see how it is in Ukraine. And when we had a conversation in the office, his suggestions were certainly correct, but I asked Javorowski, "I give the headmaster, the car, go to the Institute of Agriculture under Kiev, and let this person see how we manage." Large, large - scale agriculture is an agro-industrial complex that produced 42 percent of the gross domestic income in the country. We went, we looked, we met with specialists, we met with the director, we went to demonstration sites, we came and we thanked. And we parted, as they say, with a deep understanding of each other. The project introduced today, I'm not afraid of that word, is the poverty of the thinking of the people who prepared it. Dear friends! This is where Catherine Vaschuk said, we have 18 schools in Ukraine, we have 124 technicians in Ukraine, we have 625 vocational schools in Ukraine that have prepared highly qualified specialists of all levels for large-scale farming. And Ukraine was certainly an example both for Europe and for America in terms of the agro-industrial complex. Today, when we made the Huthar state in 11 years, when we destroyed the village, and the social infrastructure led to poverty, we're looking for ways to create how to replace the Ministry of Agrarian Policy with some primitive business structure. I don't want to take your time, but I'll tell you, dear friends, that Ukraine is not America, Ukraine is not Canada, Ukraine is not any European state, Ukraine is Ukraine, it's unique. Today, we have transformed the Ukrainian land, which no longer provides food grain, but rather feeds, the fifth, the sixth, beginning with the third class. But Ukraine has never produced feed wheat! We don't have a bioclimactic zone in any area where wheat is less than 23 to 25 percent, up to the 32nd. Canada gives 18, America gives 16-18, they don't have enough temperature, it's not their fault, it's their fault, they say, biospheres. So, I think, dear friends, we need today's Ministry of Agrarian Policy to develop and bring an agrarian academy into this room. Agrarian Academy is. National Academy and agrarian. We've drafted a law on the restoration of an agro-industrial complex, considering that Ukraine is today an agro-industrial state. If the deputy secretary had come out with a document like this today, I think this room would have supported them 100 percent. I used to say from this rostrum that in my time, Lomonosov was saying that Russia would grow up in Siberia. I'm not far from Lomonosov, but I'll say that Ukraine has grown and will always grow into an agro-industrial complex. But not the kind of poor bill they passed today. He's harmful, and you don't have to take him! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u119	Thank you. A word for reply to the national deputy of Jaborovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to make any sense, I'm going to say a lot of things to Alexander Mikolaiovich. And it's a good thing that we went beyond discussing this local issue, this draft law that practically doesn't solve anything in the village. I'll come with you. But there is obviously a need to discuss the situation of our Ukrainian village today. I want to add to what Alexander Mikolayovich said, one small detail that he dropped. I really brought from Australia a Ukrainian farmer who wanted to take up biodynamics in Ukraine, which were very important after Chernobyl. It's all right, Alexander Mikolaiovich, except for one detail. I brought him to you, you walked into the office, took off your jacket and said, "So what are your problems?" What the Australian scientist and farmer said is, "I don't have a problem, you have a problem because I went to your stores." To the end. Really, I think the discussions about this bill are simply not serious. There are far more important things. After everything that's happened to Ukraine, after our economy is completely defiled, I don't know, but my deep conviction is that we might have our last card, Alexander Mikolaiovich, our Ukrainian land, our Ukrainian soil, which we have about one third of all on earth. And they needed to be in order today. I believe that the main reason today is that our current power, from the President to the Cabinet of Ministers and even to the Supreme Council, has not shown political will that when this reform begins, it must be brought to an end. The President's decree on the collapse of the colonists was spontaneously issued. He was completely unprepared. I've been talking back in 1989 and 1990 about the fact that colporteurs are not the only form and they should have an alternative. But we broke them in haste, and it ended up being that, really, this law makes sense in just one thing that today's peasant knows absolutely nothing about what they're doing to him, what they want from him. And so he blindly took all the papers that he had released to the ground and handed over to yesterday's head to a colstopeau who, at least yesterday, was afraid of the Paradise Party, and today he's not afraid of anyone at all. And on Winnitzkin, my mother after four and a half acres [4 and a half ha] of beautiful oreland today, he gives a bucket of oats and a half gallons of oil for all of this, and we wonder why our village is going to be so impoverished today. Because of this, we, as the legislative body, as representatives of the people, must clearly ask one question. [[Already today, we have been discussing the issues of the multi-communist, non-farmer farmers]] To demand power, executive power, political will. Take advantage of the potential that we have today, we have a cheap labor force in the village, we have a highly skilled labor force in the village, we have beautiful soils. All we have to do is channel financial flows there, bring order, and Ukraine will break into the world market primarily through the agrarian sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! We have concluded our discussion of the matter. We'll decide on Thursday. Please, National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u122	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today we have a question on the agenda -- Bill 1068 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine. It is about giving one - time assistance to burying families who had outstanding merits before their Father. I'd like to either look at it now, or build us a job so that we can definitely look at it today, because it's about the fact that today's funeral aid is 12 dollars to these people. Well, that's no good at all!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! It's with that question that we've been talking about -- the funeral. If there's no objection, let's talk about taking it faster. Please, Peter Pavlovich Ovcharenko. I don't think we have much to discuss here, debate. I think we can talk about it quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u124	Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill under consideration proposes to amend Ukraine's current laws on the status of war veterans, guarantee their social protection and fundamental principles of social protection for veterans of work and other elderly citizens. These two laws were passed in the 1990s. They provide for the death or death of persons who have special merit before the Father to pay their wife and children under the age of 18 the minimum wage laid down by legislation on the day of death or death. [[husband]] These standards are currently not implemented because, starting in 1996, the Ukrainian legislation, which sets the minimum wage, has not been applied as a calculated value to determine the amount of aid, compensation and other payments. In order to bring current legislation into line with such a new social standard as subsistence minimum, it is proposed that in the event of death a person who had special and special employment privileges before the Father should be paid one-time assistance to his wife and children under the age of 18 to a minimum of five living minimums per month per person approved by law on the day of her death or death. [[husband]] The adoption of the proposed bill will make it possible to practically implement the provisions of these two laws regarding the payment of one-off aid and will eliminate the unconformity of the existing rules. The bill is considered in the Supreme Council’s profile committee and approved. So I ask the national deputies to support him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u125	Thank you. Vote? No questions asked by the reporter? None. Thank you, Peter Pavlovich. Peter Stepanovich, do you need to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! By adopting this law, we solve two problems. The first problem is to unify our legislation and use it as a value to calculate the cost of living, not the minimum wage, because it is no longer used today. And second of all, we're removing the screaming thing that I've just said about, that today, unfortunately, the family of a man who had outstanding merit before the Fatherland or the outstanding work merit in front of the Fatherland is being paid for the funeral, sorry, 12 bucks. This is about replacing this amount with five living minimums — 1,710 dollars. So the committee has considered this problem and is supporting this government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u127	Thank you. No questions? Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Well, then we'll, I think, vote on Thursday for this bill as a whole. Dear colleagues! Here we go to the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening accountability for violations of civil protection and protection of populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies]] State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Vasil Stepanovich Lucko. Basil Vasilovich Durdinec is on his way. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u128	Secretary of State of the Ministry of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In recent years, a civil protection system has been set up to implement legislation in Ukraine, which can act quickly and effectively in the event of an emergency in almost all areas of population activity. However, the natural and technological situation in the country remains acute and requires a decisive improvement in the work on early preventive and preventive measures. For one thing, coal mines and other mining industries, dams, hydroelectric power stations, bridges, railways, boilers, and turbines of thermal power stations, pipelines, housing funds, especially in the historic part of the old city. Within the limits of exhaustion, the resources of the structures and structures of the main areas. It should be noted that not all exceptional situations result from objective factors, often caused by a human factor, and in some cases due to the service negligence of business leaders, institutions, and organizations, and the failure to comply with laws. But the main thing is to prevent similar disasters and other dangerous incidents by increasing the personal responsibility of officials for safe work and the safety of objects regardless of their form of ownership. In implementing state policy in the field of technological security, the government has established a state inspection of civil protection and technological security as a government authority of state administration. To enhance its ability and effectiveness to influence the state of natural and technological security, the government has submitted to you a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. The adoption of this bill will allow administrative sanctions to be applied for violations of civil party laws and for the protection of populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies, thereby reducing the risk of such situations, thereby preventing human loss and material loss. The practical application of the bill will ensure that management and emergency services are adequately prepared to respond to emergency situations, will positively influence the creation of reserves and the targeted use of material resources designed to eliminate emergencies, will contribute to effective control of the preparation of the population in enterprises, institutions and organizations in emergency situations, in compliance with the standards and standards assigned to the competence of public inspection. The bill was considered on the relevant committees of the Supreme Council and received support. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the bill in the first reading, taking into account the above-mentioned arguments and suggestions made by the committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question? I don't know, do you understand? None. People's MP Drogunzov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u130	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the opportunity to ask questions. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Vassil Stepanovich, I know that there are highly qualified professionals in your ministry who know what they're doing. I know you've done a thorough analysis of the state of the core funds in various areas of the economy and you've come to the conclusion, as you said today, that they are on the verge of physical destruction. Of course, this has to do with the increase in technological accidents, catastrophes. Well, nature adds something to why she doesn't like us. I have this question in mind. To reduce the cost of eliminating technological accidents and disasters, we need modern basic manufacturing and non-production funds, including housing. And this area is not in your jurisdiction, you're given only a small amount of money to eliminate what's already happened. How can we provide a two-way process so that we can prevent accidents and disasters? You may be thinking about this too. What should we do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u131	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Let me answer very briefly. You mentioned the enormous work being done by the Ministry, this is the National Report on Natural and Technological Security, which was released in conjunction with the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. This report was published in the years 2000 and 2001, and is now being prepared for the year 2002, which will be published in the following year, where we are expected not to identify the situation that has taken place in the country, but to focus more on warning of the extraordinary situations that may arise from the decommissioning of core funds and various kinds of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u132	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. According to Maria Andriyevna Marcus, a member of the Committee on Legal Protection. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u133	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues and invitees in the session room! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, 1153. The bill proposes to establish the administrative responsibility of officials for violating Ukrainian legislation in the area of civil defence and protection of the population and territories against technological and natural emergencies by supplementing the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences by article 18816. The Committee supports the proposed bill on the need to increase responsibility for violations of civil protection and protection of the population and territories against technological and natural emergencies and considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and, after further consideration, to be made in the second reading. The introduction of the law will not require additional costs. In my opinion, in order to harmonize terminology in articles 18816 and 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences, one name should be used: the State Civil Protection and Technological Security Inspectorate. It is also appropriate to keep two parts of article 18816 of the Code on Administrative Offences, for part two refers to such a hallmark as the repetitive execution of the same acts during the year after the imposition of the administrative binding. In my opinion, this will be more disciplined by officials in order to avoid such wrongdoing. Please support the proposed bill and accept it as a basis for us to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading after further processing of the comments and proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions to Mary Andriyanna? None. Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Then the decision will be decided on Thursday during the vote. Question completed. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Border Forces. The reporter is the first deputy head of the State Committee for the protection of the state border, Mikhail Volodymyrovich Koval. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u135	First Deputy Head of the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law has been drafted to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Decision of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council of 24 December 2001 on measures to ensure the proper regime of the state border and to combat illegal migration of 19 January 2002 48/2002, which is designed to draft a bill to increase the number of Ukrainian Border Forces by 5,000. The purpose of the law is to create the legal basis for an increase of 5,000 military personnel from the border forces of Ukraine. The National Committee for the Protection of the State Border of Ukraine is taking steps to ensure the protection of national interests at the state border, as well as to counter smuggling activities in the Ukrainian-Moldov, illegal migrations in the Ukrainian-Russian and Ukrainian-Belarus areas, poaching activities in the AzovoCornomor region, to protect Ukraine's sovereign rights in the exclusive maritime economic zone. Extensive efforts are being made by the Border Forces to protect the state border and within the territory affected by the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. For this purpose, two State border authorities have been further expanded to Ukrainian-Moldovian, Ukrainian-Belarusian and Ukrainian borders over the period 2000-2001, some 100 border units have been deployed since the beginning of this year and 37 units have been deployed. We're taking steps to increase the commander's reserves by directing and creating a mobile reserve of the head of the DDR. The expansion of additional units, carried out within the existing border numbers of Ukraine’s Border Troops, has allowed a slight reduction in the average length of border divisions and increased the security density of the state border. This has had a positive impact on the results of military operations. However, according to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the measures that have not yet been fully implemented allow for effective responses to the current threats to national security at the state border of Ukraine in the context of the democratic development of the state and integration into European structures. At present, the average length of the borders, which are the main units of the Border Guarding Forces, is 45-50 kilometers across the state border, 22 kilometres from the Ukrainian and Ukrainian-Belarusian areas of the state border, as well as the international experience of 15-20 kilometers. Usually, the main way to build up efforts in the Border Guards is by force and by means of dangerous means. The increase in numbers and numbers is therefore necessary in view of the number of security parameters of the state border. After the adoption of the law on the increase of the total number of Border Guards by 5,000 military personnel, it is planned to create an additional regional authority, two State Border Guards, 48 border units, which will carry out the tasks of State Border Guards at their location, in addition to the introduction of military posts into the state of active administrations and border units. [[Border Command, Border Hostage, Border Control Division, etc.]] This will increase the security of the state border and the protection of Ukraine's national security in the face of a deterioration in the criminality situation in the country, the integration of national criminal groups into international criminal unions, the increase in drug activity, illegal migration and smuggling. The legal regulation of the draft law is subject to the total number of border troops in Ukraine. Article 2 of the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and size of the Ukrainian Border Army confirmed their total number of 45,000 people, including 3,000 workers. The proposed bill consists of two articles. Article 1 of Ukraine’s draft law provides for a new edition of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of foreign troops. It is proposed that during the period 2003-2004 the total number of Ukrainian Border Guards of 50,000, including 47,000 military personnel, be confirmed, thereby increasing it to 5,000 military personnel. Article 2 establishes the order of entry into force of the Ukrainian law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Border Forces. The implementation of the law by means of an increase in the number and number of units of the Border Guards, which will directly carry out the tasks of protecting the state border at the site of their deployment, will provide an opportunity to increase the reliability of the protection of national interests at the state border, including by reducing the loss of the government budget's income by covering channels of smuggling outside the border crossings. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u136	If you have any questions, please sign in. Please point it on the board. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u137	Thank you again, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd be happy to ask you a question about this important issue of order of the day. My first question is this. We're increasing the density of the Border Forces on the border with Russia, Belarus and Moldova. Are the same processes taking place from that side of the border? Are we the only ones who increase the density and the number of border guards far exceeds ours? The other one. You haven't mentioned another maritime border. Is there anything we're going to do? And are there basic conditions there on the Black Sea to protect our borders? For when I was a national deputy from the city of Odessa, I heard constantly from the sailors of the military, who did not even have fuel to go out into the sea, let alone the protection of the border. And the third. If we count even roughly, how much will we need to increase the number of Border Guards by 5,000? I do not question the need for such a decision, but please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u138	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. About your first question. In our adjacent areas of the border -- Ukrainian-Belarusian, Ukrainian-Russian and Ukrainian-Ukrainian-Moldov -- there's also an increase in the number of Border Armed Forces, which I mean. Yes, our borders in these areas are borders of friendship, they must be open to brothers living on different sides of the border, but they must be tightly closed to all the troubles that I have already mentioned. The second question is about the Black Sea border. We now have marine security forces, and as you know from the press, this year, for the first time in 11 years of our nation's independence, we have not allowed any foreigner to enter our exclusive economic zone for poaching. For this fuel we have enough, the state gives us enough, and the ships have different classes, starting with the first class, so we do our job peacefully, protecting the sovereignty of our state in the exclusive economic zone. You can sleep here in peace. It's about spending, it's about budgeting. In my speech, I've already pointed out that increasing the number of individual compositions will take place in stages. So the additional budget costs in 2003 are going to be 12 million 660,000 for the acquisition of military equipment, weapons, goods; in 2004 it will be 34 million 460,000 for the maintenance of a special warehouse of 3,000; in 2005 and the following years it will be 45 million 765 thousand dollars. We're going to work out these costs, and the state will save more when we're confidently protecting the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u139	Please explain the list of those who signed up. The word is from the Blackyak People's Deputy, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u140	Dear Michael Volodymyrovich! The bill's main focus is on the quantity of the Border Guards, and it's about increasing their numbers. I also don't want to question the need for such a step, but I have some reflection on this, and I would like to comment on it. Maybe it's not the same thing as the size and quantity of the Border Guards as it is in the quality? Perhaps there is a need to ask questions about the provision of modern surveillance, technology, weapons, and then perhaps there is no need to increase the number? Or combine it somehow. So how do you view the quality parameters of the border forces, how do you appreciate them, and what should we do next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u141	Thank you, that's a very good question. I see you understand the problems of our foreign troops. When I answered an honorary MP who had asked a question before that, I just called the cost of the 2003 budget. These are the cost of acquiring equipment to protect the state border: radio stations and night vision devices, properly equipped with automobile equipment. We also have problems in this regard. In addition to the need to increase the number of troops on the border, we also take into account what you just talked about. I'd like to emphasize that we're running out of techniques right now. Take, for example, the protection of borders at sea and in our river areas. We literally raised flags over the sea-guard boats that we got here in Kiev, from the Ministry of Defense. But unfortunately, we don't have a special warehouse here, and we had to take sailors from Odessa and Balaklava. Tomorrow, for the first time in eleven years, the state’s sovereignty will be protected by the Kyiv waterfront, the Pripet, the Dniper, and the land. As you can see, we have a technique, but we don't have the experts to serve it. This problem is acute, and we need to solve it. [[in this I hope for your help and understanding]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u142	Thank you. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u143	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! This year, I was on the Ukrainian-Romanian border, and I saw that this is today, as they said right here, the border of friendship. I didn't see any military, no border guards. The cordon could have been crossed any way you wanted. What was there in Soviet times was destroyed. [[There was wire, trail strip and all that.]] On one occasion, I saw a border guard. He was in some shoe wearing Chinese troops during the liberation war in 1945-1949. So I'd like to ask you, do you predict in the bill that there will be some technical strengthening of borders? Will all these strips be rebuilt? That's the first one. And the second. Is this bill designed for delimitation, demarcating the Russian-Ukrainian border?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Engineering buildings on the border were, unfortunately, removed when our nation became sovereign. It was a wrong decision. I was convinced of that when I was working abroad. For example, there is an engineering barrier on the part of the Third Commandant of the Lutsky Group on just one flag of Parhomenka’s name, except for the KSS. On the other side of the border, our boys are watching abroad using observation towers and their own legs. It really was a big mistake, and I agree with you, and the border guards feel it today. This also affects the quality of the protection of the state border. We are now unable to restore this system of engineering fences. A very large, colossal amount is needed if they are to be restored again along the perimeter of the state border. No budget can handle that. But we're solving all of these issues by using modern visual observation techniques: "Liss", "Bars", "Borsuk." It is designed specifically for the protection of the state border. The draft budget proposes the provision of funds for its purchase. This bill does not provide for this. Costs of increasing the number are already in the budget, and we're starting to actually get them. As for the cost of increasing the number of troops, I have already said that the 2003 budget envisions the amount I was talking about by Sergei Ivanovich. It's supposed to create new bets. No, these are separate intergovernmental agreements. This is not the issue in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u145	Thank you. National Deputy Slabenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u146	The faction of our Ukraine. Election District 19. It's easier for me to talk, because my Volodymyr Wallin constituency is a border district, and we know, to some extent, these problems. I have two questions. First. The 2003 budget already provides for spending on increasing the number of troops you stand for today? I mean, your suggestions are already taken into account there, do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u147	The law has not yet been passed, we have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u148	I got it. So we're still going to have to face this problem further when we approve the budget and take into account the position of the bill if we vote for it. And second, the question of the social sphere. You understand well that you cannot compare the construction system, such as the Polish and Belarusian borders. [[The last one is in our region]] I'd like to understand that in solving this question, you're going to take into account the cost of creating some social conditions for officers, flags -- those who are constantly serving abroad?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u149	Thank you for asking. I have to say that in the very area where you are elected as a national deputy, the attitude of the border guards is great. At least take the Chief of Border Command, Major Music. From him and to your personal address, and to the address of the local authorities, and to all branches of government, I heard only words of gratitude for understanding the problems of the border guards. I've already said that we're going to have to create new units that I've been talking about, and we're going to be able to use the funds in a step-by-step way. [[if this number is entered]] Funding will include the cost of equipping new mortgages and creating infrastructure for the viability of these mortgages, including for the housing of border families.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u150	National Deputy Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u151	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption. [[ousted county 152, Poltavsk region]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In my time, I graduated from a military school called the Fourth Foreign Military School. Alexy Lopatin and Alexy Lopatin had previously graduated from this school. So I know how important your work is. And it's precisely in order to effectively and qualitatively carry out the tasks assigned to you to protect the border that you need to combine physical, as it were, efforts, and a complex of engineering and technology. [[That's military gear rotation.]] Without humans, you will not perform any tasks. Therefore, I feel it is my duty to urge all deputies to support this bill. This will be only for Ukraine’s benefit. We can even reduce some of the other military formations, but the frontiers are going to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u152	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u153	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u154	The Communist Party faction. Hersonic. Dear reporter! I think the bill you're proposing will support it, but I'd like to ask you, don't you think we're still late for similar bills because we've already solved a lot of things and overly weakened our Armed Forces? And there are also many problems with the Border Guards. I represent the sea region, Hersonian. There are also foreign flags. What, in particular, will they receive from the Horlov Border Guard? It is small, but it protects hundreds of miles of sea boundary. What does it get is materially, and in terms of quantity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u155	Thank you. The Russians have this saying, "Better later than never." That's the answer to your first question. It's a question of the Horlovsian flag. This bet is going to get more special composition. Unfortunately, compared to the neighbouring states, we have a greater length of state border protection for each pledge and a rather small number of special warehouses. This stop is going to get more special composition and the length of the collateral area is going to be reduced because we're going to be placing other units of the border guard between the bets. Areas will be cut short, and this will only increase the quality of protection. In addition, for the seashore, we plan to purchase modern radio stations that will monitor the territorial waters and coasts. This will also help to improve the quality of the protection of the state border.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u156	Thank you. National MP Mike, faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u157	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] I have a question for you. Do you think it's right in this bill that you're only asking questions about increasing the size of the Border Army? Isn't there a third point where you and the government should commit you to develop a technical equipment program for your units? I can tell you that your equipment is so far behind today! [[You've reported on the radar and all that.]] And you still can't tell the Supreme Council that you can't afford to buy anything today, that all your bills are closed. All accounts are closed! It's bullying you and the state. That's the law we have! You can't buy something for a penny, can you? I'll tell you more. You know that Kiev today is capable of installing radio locks and other equipment that no one in the world has. And that the latest equipment today by Kiev, Quant Institute, was sold to Poles for ten years. And we don't have that kind of equipment in the state! Today at sea, we can even spot a barrel that swims. But you won't see any ships today, because you have, as far as I know, another Russian Najada, developed in the 1950s. And for the "Screen" radar that you're supposed to have today, you can't count on it for five years, no matter how many directions you take. So I think the question of numbers is right, and you need to be supported. But I am absolutely against the law not to provide for the development of a technical equipment program for your troops. You won't do anything without it. Today, it is not only by increasing the number of troops that we can resolve their questions. So we will support you, but complete the bill with one more point, and you will live normally. How do you live today? You don't have a penny! You don't tell anyone, you're afraid, I know you're talking about it, but for five or six years you can't even buy a radar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u158	I don't agree with you a little bit. I'm both hands behind the modern-day technical equipment of the Border Guards. But I have to tell you that for the first time since the collapse of the Soviet Union this year, four ships have been brought into the economic zone by the unrest of the bells, and they have created a solid radio-location field, even with the help of the available poor radio-location equipment, and they have carried out the task of protecting sovereignty. [[I'm even proud of it.]] It's my fault. This bill does not provide for this. But I'm both hands for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u159	National MP Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u160	I would also like to ask you a question. Are there plans to increase border protection in Western regions, including the Zakartat region? In fact, this area borders with five countries — Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Poland — some of which join NATO. As a result of the floods of 1998 and 2000, border buildings, including fences, were destroyed. They are not restored, and today access to Tissa remains free. You know that Carpathia is one of the most common areas of illegal migrants. Moreover, it is not a secret that smuggling flows are concentrated because of the insecurity of borders. The State’s damage is much greater than the cost of restoring the border in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u161	In fact, if you look at the map of Ukraine, in the Carpathian region we have a bag. Here are the concentrated routes that illegal migrants take to Ukraine. They're different. But we're trying to solve these problems. More recently, we and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have resolved one question. Here's an example. A 71 - year - old man is on his way to Ukraine to study. It's all legal. It turns out, Carpathia is like a sack of illegal migrants who want to move to Europe. We take certain measures. With the adoption of this draft law, more border guards will be introduced at Zakartat, and more checkpoints will be added. You know what action the College of Derzkomcordon has done lately. The fact that for the first time in the years of the sovereign Ukraine, criminals have gone to the border has already shown that there is more or less order at the Zakarpata crossing. As a representative of the Carpathians, you feel the same way. But you're right: there is a problem. If this bill is adopted, there will be increased protection of this area of the border, and those buildings that were affected during the flood will be restored, and the normal protection of the state border will be restored. [[She's already getting better.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u162	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, your time is up. Thank you. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u163	Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supported the government's project to increase the total number of Border Forces by 5,000 over the next two years. I'd just like to say something, dear colleagues. In this case, we only consider one question that arises from the Constitution. According to the Constitution, the total number of Border Guards is determined by the Supreme Council. We do not consider the problem as a whole today, but our colleagues have violated justly, completely justified many things.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u164	Mikhail Vasilovich, listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u165	issues of concern to our foreigners. It's about technical equipment and solving social problems and their organizational structure. It's all right. On the basis of this, we have proposed, in working on the bill, to clarify its wording and necessarily add an item to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is obliged when defining in the draft State Budget Act for each year expenditure for the maintenance of the Border Guards to take into account the corresponding increase in their number, as established by this law, and the need for their proper material and technical equipment." I'd like to make a request from the committee. Dear friends! Let us be equally active with regard to the defenders of our foreign country when we consider the question of the 2003 State Budget. We will see how the government will deal with this. And let's be as unanimous as we look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the question. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u167	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] "Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear George Korniyovich! Of course, the problems that exist in the foreign armies are acute, but not only in the Western border. You know, we just don't have an eastern border, including because of many of the factions sitting in the hall today. So please tell me, how do we and, in particular, your committee, in view of recent events, after Bush's experience has repeated Girinovski and then Putin, threatening Georgia's territorial integrity, will we refer to the border, to the fact that we have no border with the Russian Federation? Why can't we do what small Baltic countries did -- one, two, three? They defined the border themselves, they fixed it, because there was political will and support for Parliament. In the context of what was said. 50,000 men - many or few? You know, in the Czech Republic, all the armed forces are 50,000. But other equipment, other funding. How will we change our position and, in particular, what does your committee feel about the border?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u168	Dear colleague! You must have heard. When reported by Mikhail Volodymyrovich, he was focusing on the need to take appropriate action on the Ukrainian, Ukrainian and Belarusian borders. So I can't agree with you that there's nothing going on, that we have a completely open border there. There are many problems. You know that these problems are created by the general state of our state, by our economy, and whatever political statements we make here, everything will be determined by how things will go in the economy. And then we'll solve these problems faster. And this is a question that the committee has asked, put, and put, and the border guards can say that we've always supported them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u169	Gennady Joseph Vudovenko, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u170	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Dear George Korniyovich! Well, it's not your parish, but don't you remember the border number of the Ministry of Interior -- 400 or 385,000, I don't remember anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u171	I don't remember. No, it's not a secret. You don't have to say that, dear colleagues. We passed the law. Open figures, and they were called. I just don't remember them. These numbers are. They're about the same parameters as you call them, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u172	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. The national MPs of Kosov, Udovenko, Yavorowski, Shevchuk, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud were enrolled. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I see the unanimity of the room on this issue, so maybe there's no need to convince anyone. But on this issue, I would like to draw your attention to such a few aspects. I've had to speak to you about the President's decree on the National Programme for the Restructuring of the Armed Forces of Ukraine by 2015. I was then asking a question, and I repeat today, too, that this program would need to be reviewed by the General Staff and the Supreme Chief of Staff and presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would consider this program, because we are with you approving the number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, strategy, military doctrine, reorganization and so on. That's the first one. The other one. In the context of the issues raised in this room, I would like to draw attention to this: let's not focus on which area of the border is more important to us. Of course, these areas called Ukrainian-Russian, Ukrainian-Belarusian, Ukrainian-Belarusian, are very important, because you know that drug trafficking, illegal migration, smuggling go right through these areas of the border. But let us not forget that Western nations, including Poland and others, will soon be members of the EU and NATO, and we will also have our own specific problems on these borders, because we need to go to NATO longer than our neighbours. Third. Of course, overseas service can be compensated for technical equipment. However, the foot of the borderman that the General has told us about will never become a secondary factor in the protection of the state border of any state. And the last. I'm very happy to welcome you here in our hall, Michael Volodymyrovich. I don't know if you remember that, more than ten years ago, on January 19th, I was in two helicopter regiments, the village of Kalinov in the district of Sambir, the airships and the transport regiment. This was a very worrisome and ambiguous time, for somewhere near Tullah in Russia there was already a clearing ground for these shelves to be repositioned there. And I asked you then to stay in Ukraine. [[You were a lieutenant colonel back then.]] And I convinced you you wouldn't regret it. So let me welcome you and your general pursuits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u174	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko Stepan Ilkovich, we have a turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u175	Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear National Deputies! It's a good thing there are the most conscious MPs here, so they understand the problem, and they don't need to be convinced. But let us not forget that most of the deputies are not present. Therefore, we should not treat ourselves lightly because it is an extremely important law. It needs to be supported literally, I would even like, by a constitutional majority, because, if there is an unprotected border, the sovereignty of the state is unrealistic. We have problems in all areas of the border. In the east, it doesn't work as a border, it still needs to be arranged properly. And the fact that we are receiving an uncontrolled, illegal migration that brings both diseases and drugs and other flaws and crimes is even difficult to appreciate how much it costs Ukraine. Thus, money cannot be regretted on the border, its furnishings, and its borders. I'd like to go ahead and say that, if we're going to look at the State Budget project, we might have to think about what to shorten, but we need to allocate the maximum budget to the foreign service. And I want to pay attention to this moment. At present, the elected governing body of the State Committee on State Border Protection has been very successful. I've known Lieutenant General Michael Koval for ten years, since he was a Lieutenant Colonel in command of the Hirova Air Force, which was ordered to be disbanded. And it was only by addressing me and my involvement in this issue that we managed to preserve this brigade, but Mikhail Volodymyrovich never asked about going somewhere from Ukraine. He's a patriot, a highly qualified expert, an extremely honest officer. Not so long ago, three years ago, the Academy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and believe me, the State Committee on State Border Affairs now has high-quality leaders. The money that will be allocated will go in favor of the case, they won't be stolen, and that's why we need to pay attention in advance when, I say again, not only will we support this bill, but we will vote in favour of the 2003 State Budget, we have to take this into account. 'Cause I'll say it again: Ukraine is losing an enormous amount of money. National security is also at risk because it is not protected, as it should be, by borders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u176	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u177	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I support this bill and I think it is very relevant, very much needed by our country. The only thing I would like to point out is that at present, the border forces are at the limit of 45,000 people, and these 45,000 people are protecting our state, the borders of our state. And the entire range of internal troops, the militia and all the other units are, well, I don't remember the exact numbers, 350-400 thousand. So they exist to fight their own people. So maybe we're going to swap this number or we're going to scale it down a lot and we're going to scale it up a lot here? An independent state is primarily a powerful state border. And we're not going anywhere. Life will force us to strengthen our borders, especially the eastern border that threatens our independence today. These hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants who are crossing the eastern border are freely crossing it and, most dangerously, they are walking freely throughout Ukraine, and only on the western border are our famous bordermen holding them in camps, and they are rebelling because the conditions are inhuman. Even illegals need to be treated humanly. And by their meager budget or local budget, the border guards are holding illegal migrants in these camps, and they are rebelling, as has been the case recently in Zakarpat, that Ukraine is being disgraced worldwide. We need to strengthen borders. I've told you many times. They're laughing at me. Dear Foreigners! Open the western border! Our people won't go there! Not in Poland, not anywhere else. Now, everyone who wanted to leave -- 7 million -- has left. Let the illegals go there. Let them keep them there. A rich Western Europe. These illegals are not going to Ukraine. They want to go to Germany, Belgium, even Bulgaria. Let them go. I have repeatedly raised this question. Let the European Union "fool" and give money to build our border because we protect them with our breasts. Why, for what? In order for them to rebel? We need to strengthen our Border Troops because it is the national security of our nation. And I want to support what my colleagues have said here. It is unfortunate that such important drafts are being introduced on Friday that they should be considered on Tuesday, but this is already a matter for the Conciliation Council. I also want to support the work of the committee headed by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, who is also on the watch for the national interests of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I'll tell you who else is on the list, and we'll advise you: the national deputies of Yavorowski, Shevchuk, Andresyuk and Kuzmuk. After a minute, please, dear colleagues. Yavorowski's national deputy from the place, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u179	Society! I took the floor because my district is practically a complete borderline, a free economic zone, and a lot of military. These people voted for me, and this subject that we are discussing today is not as strange to me as it is to them. I'm very glad that during the discussion of this bill in our Hall there was some kind of kind of nice, kind, friendly aura, and so out of the question, or maybe the Supreme Council would be in the same composition as now, and maybe everything would be normal and just as good and tender. I am very glad that we are practically supporting this bill. And I don't have any doubt that he's going to be the law by Thursday, and it's a pleasure to hear good words about our foreigners today, but we have to say it anyway, because we're politicians and legislators, that's what. In my home village, there was a housewife who used to rub the house in the front, and it was painted in the back, and the wall was usually painted in the back. This is how our borderline is today: on the other hand, it seems that we have covered everything up, that even though the fly does not fly, and not just the fly, but on the other hand, come in, whoever wants, and in our country today flows, give me a word, but virtually all the uncleanness of the world that is. So I think we should show political will, it's no longer a matter of foreigners, it's a question of politicians. We really need to demarcate and refine the border strip with Russia. And I don't think anyone would want to play demogogia, which means our brothers and we don't need a border band. Because let me not be offended by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, I deeply respect him, but when we were appalled yesterday by what we don't want to say, ratify the treaty with Russia, we voted in favour of it, but, society, we did not ban, say, Girinowski or anyone else from carrying nuclear weapons through Ukraine. So let's think together about what we really need borders. In conclusion, for me, the troops and the borders are much larger than the President, perhaps even parliament and so on. Let's not forget that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u180	Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u181	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to address three issues related to the consideration of the bill. First of all, I want to say that the NDP faction will certainly support this bill, and we have no doubt about its relevance. And when we talk about the frontier of friendship, we don't deny the meaning of that word, but there's the word "border." And the border is always clear. And in this case, we would like to stress that the agreement on delimitation of the border between Ukraine and Belarus is not ratified by the Belarusian Parliament. The practical economic requirement is the cost of ratifying the $200 million that the Belarusian side requires of Ukraine for allegedly prior debts. The ratification of the delimitation agreement with Moldova has also been complicated, the border with the Russian Federation has not been delimited or demarcated. Thus, we did not want just the increase in the number of foreign troops to be seen as a basic condition for improving order. The second question is the Western direction. The more foreign troops there will be, the more they will be detained, the more government spending there will be, the more illegal migrants will be stockpiling with at least three problems — drugs, crime, and disease. I think we all need to think about how European European structures can help Ukraine solve these issues. It's a precedent. When there was a border between Poland and Germany, the German side allocated considerable amounts for the maintenance of refugee camps. And the third problem is medical insurance. The border guards removed the medical insurance requirement when the citizens of Russia, Belarus, and other visa-free countries moved. As a result, millions of tourists who arrive in Ukraine during the summer season come without medical insurance, and all the costs of sickness, trauma, road traffic accidents fall on our small budget of the health system. [[That's very good.]] We need to fix this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u182	Andreszuk Boris Pavlovich. The fraction of the SDPO(s).
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u183	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence (hungover-mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u184	We have to finish our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u185	I'd like to talk to my colleagues. You remember, about a year ago, you and I confirmed the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Then we passed the Ukrainian law, which determined that the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be 400,000, of which 310,000 were civilians and 90,000 were civilians. You and I have determined in the law that the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be reduced by 25,000 by 2005. Now we're looking at a very complex question about increasing the number of foreign troops by 5,000. You know, this is the question of life itself today, and we're here every day with you televised witnesses as to what the situation today is on the border. I would also like to point out that for the first time in the 2002 budget, we have taken almost all the requirements of the border guards into account. I would like to say that the reform of the border guards today is taking place entirely in accordance with the requirements of time, which dictates a new look at the foreign service. I know that today the border guards are ready to submit a new edition of the Foreign Service Act, where we will deal with all these issues in a comprehensive manner. I would like to say that our National Security and Defence Committee has held travel meetings on several occasions, including a year ago on the Ukrainian-Moldov border, where we have fully identified the whole range of issues that concern the border. So I'm pretty sure we should go to the border guards not only on the issue of increasing numbers, but especially on the 2003 budget. We need to meet all their demands, resolve the social issues of the border guards, since we need to keep in mind that these people are serving on a border where there is no warm home, warm apartments, and many things are missing. I think we should support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u186	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u187	Member of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[electoral district 129, Mikolaiivsk region]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In my previous "duty duty" activity, I was closely associated with the Border Guards, and I know every mortgage and every border. I want to remind you that there were no Border Troops in Ukraine, but there was only a border district, but Ukraine's borders at the same area, the territory, the glory of God, doubled. I've had a lot of discussions with previous Border Army commanders about their structure, and I want to prove to you, dear colleagues, that with the arrival of more energetic young leaders of the Border Guards, evolution took place in a better direction. From heavy management structures that were large and no borders to protect anyone, they went the other way. So the urgent problem today is actually to increase the number of Border Guards by 5,000, but it would be a mistake if we just figured it out in numbers today. It's a different matter. Today, foreign troops need help and attention. Borders should not be just a border guard, there should be modern technology, there should be modern technology. It would be good to help the border guards with the adoption of the State Budget. Increasing numbers is a temporary step that needs to be done now. In the future, we need to move actively to reforming the foreign service and modern equipment of the Border Guards. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll make a decision during the Thursday vote. Dear colleagues! We've got time to discuss the various issues. One minute, please! What do you insist?Oh, my God! I know you insist. Who Is Recorded? Are they written? Light up, please. There's Frost, a faction of Communists. Please. Dear colleagues, how long will we take to do this? Is half an hour enough for us because much is written down?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u189	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[constituency 83, Zaporezki region]] Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! As I continue the conversation that we had recently had on the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy in Ukraine, I would like to announce an open letter from the veteran organizations to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister Kinach Anatoli Kirilovich. "The developers, the builders completely robbed the people, first and foremost took away from the veterans of the Great Homeland War, acquired their savings, most of the veterans of the Great Motherland withdrew their pensions in the size of 132 Soviet rubles at the time. One U.S. dollar at the time cost 68 copies, and the pension was above $194, at the current rate of over 1,000. And if many millions of war veterans did not go out on the street with protests, their eyes would be stained with stains. After ten years of capitalization, savings never returned, pensions in most veterans doubled the official subsistence minimum, and veterans themselves declined almost three times. It is well - known that Yushchenka’s government launched the first attack on veteran benefits. Today’s chief advocate of the minister of labor and social policy is cynically blaspheming: the benefits of veterans will be thrown into Lithuania, and he insists that the veteran’s benefits will be completely different from those under the slogan to replace them with an address aid. He and such as he, the protectors, the patriots of the national-aware Ukraine limit the benefits to veterans in an unconstitutional, illegal way, despite President of Ukraine's decree 442 of 8 May 2002 on the State Comprehensive Programme of Social and Medical Care for War Veterans until 2005. This program presents the tragic health profile of veterans. From the total number of veterans, older people make up 4.43 million men or 96.9 percent. On the average, every elderly person has four or five chronic diseases, every other person needs compulsory medical care, every fourth person does not go outside his home, every fifth person cannot do his own hygienic procedures, every tenth person calls for rapid medical care more than ten times a year, and 20 percent of people over 80 years of age need constant care. The vast majority of veterans are under 80 years of age and over, but their medical services are not available, they don't have sanatorium services, because after 75 years, doctors don't sign sanatorium cards, and those they sign often die on the road. Rehabilitation treatment in the absence of money also lacks stationary treatment for the same reasons. [[expensive drugs]] So-called compensation for sanatorium trips is also not available, although a measurable one is only 100 bracelets in two years. At the same time, housing and utility tariffs and prices are rising steadily. So the exit to war veterans is one - bad to the pit and as fast as possible. As of February 2000, in December 2001, veterans sent letters to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, and the prime ministers. But "wiz and now there." We refer again to you, Leonide Danilovich, to all the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call and to you, Anatoly Kirilovich, with a call: not to allow the abolition of veteran benefits before the 2003 budget review; and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and other veterans will be sent to the maximum working veteran pension of 151 dollars, from which they will have to pay a quarter for a three-bedroom apartment -- over 70 bucks per month. [[This is taking into account 50 percent of the aid for participants in the Great Homeland War.]] We unanimously support the appeal of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council to the Heads of State on 24 April 2002 and the appeal of the Kyiv City Veterans' Presidium, the veteran asset of the city of Kiev on 8 July 2002. Their requirements are to keep veterans defined by the current legislation of the benefit, and the pension level should not be below the subsistence minimum. The board of veterans of the Tokmak organization." A lot of veteran organizations have made similar calls, and I think it's not just me, it's my fellow national MPs. Thus, veterans, like most of the disadvantaged people, actively support the action "Rise Ukraine!'cause it's not possible to live like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u190	The word is given to Belarus by Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u191	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We are the days leading up to the great events of democracy and of the peoples of the world, and the authorities are coming to meet us. 30-40 minutes ago, an attempt was made to assassinate the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Valentinovich. In a microbus, whose numbers are known, and which belong to the allegedly tax police, six men in masks tried violently to drag a national deputy and his assistant, and when a national deputy named himself, by presenting his papers with a badge, tried to resist him, they came across him with a car cynically and brutally, and they hurt him. He'll be in the hospital today. The Minister of Internal Affairs received information, he was asked to give instructions on the persecution of a car that was moving from the office on the boulevard of the Ukraine to the south and on the street of Artema. It's an unprecedented fact of cynical, violent force with regard to democratic forces. As President of the General Committee of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I protest to the authorities of Ukraine and inform the Supreme Council that I will immediately inform the secretariat of the OSCE and the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE. I call on all the people's deputies to stand up for democracy, for rights and for freedom. You can't live like this anymore! It's a disaster to the state and everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u192	On this point, honourable national deputies, I would like to provide information. I immediately found out what had happened. The event took place at 13 p.m. Our colleague Turkinov was in his office at the Forest of Ukraine. He's been informed that unknown people have put his assistant Lokinchuk Ruslan in a minibus called Mazda, and the numbers of this car are there. The Turk came out, came to this car, got in it. He was pushed out of this car, and then he stood in front, and they started moving. [[It's from Turkin's own words, I was talking to him.]] Next, Turkinov reports that several men in masks stepped out of the van, pushed him away, and hit him. Then the bus left. They were persecuted, but they were not found. I asked him: "How's your health?" He said, "I didn't go to the hospital, but I feel pain." When I found out that it was a car that was in masks, I was informed that the car belonged to the tax police. [[I spoke to the Minister of Internal Affairs.]] It is now clear what was going on there, what was the reason for the arrest of a national deputy, and as far as Turkinov himself is concerned, we will find out more. The word is given to Barani. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u193	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues! I would like to remind all of you that our fellow MP of the Viennese spoke to the head of the Councilman's staff about the information that the six deputies of the opposition are preparing the appropriate actions, what happened to the Turk today. And I want you to know that the Security Service has not taken any action, and today we have some consequences. Respectable compatriots! Dear National Deputies! How do you know that the following Monday, September 16th, at 3 p.m., in the European square of Kiev, the progressive forces of the country are launching a protest against the hateful regime of Kuchma under the eloquent slogan "Rise, Ukraine!".. The Socialist Party, like other opposition parties, are ringing the bell and calling on all those who voted for us in the elections who are convinced that kuscumism is a threat to the people and to the development of the state: come to the capital, show your political consciousness, prove that you are a patriot and a person who is not fastened, who does not want to serve the criminal authorities! Get out on the street and the playgrounds, get under the signs of opposition! Let's change the power system, change the economic situation in the state. The agonizing regime manages to make desperate attempts in any way to prevent people from meeting in Kiev on September 16th, to demonstrate their will at the protest rally. To this end, various means of blocking the operation of transport vehicles are being set up, and under various channels a mass removal is planned from bus routes to Kiev in the early hours of September 16. Throughout Ukraine, and above all in areas adjacent to the capital city of the state, under the direction of the higher leadership of the State, DAI has removed technical vouchers in bus drivers that give the right to prohibit traffic management, to put buses on fines, and drivers are carried out with so-called 'educational work'. Automotive managers, private drivers are openly threatened by DAI, tax, environmental and other public services. At all costs, they're trying to prevent thousands of disadvantaged people from coming to the capital, who refer to the current Bush authorities as highway robbers. The same is true of rail transport. There is reliable evidence that on Monday, diesel and electric trains on their way to Kiev are either planned or not to leave the depot at all, or not to stop at intermediate stations. There is mass pressure on the media that is implementing the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies and are announcing the meeting of opposition deputies with their constituents. Yesterday, the editor of the City newspaper, Yuhimchuk of Žitomir, was invited to a meeting with the executive, and he was invited to write an application for exemption for respect for the law. All of this is nothing more than an open provocation from power, an attempt to intimidate people, create social tension, a state of psychosis. Responsible officials of the President’s Administration, such as the first deputy head Valerius Horoshkovsky, in the presidential media, claimed that opposition to Kuchma could lead to civil war. Mr. Horoshkowski knows what he's talking about, because as a staff member of the President's Administration, he knows that tens of thousands of police, BSS, law enforcement students, educational institutions, dressed in civilian or uniforms. Their job is to provoke Protestants and to serve as a colourless or drunk, perhaps a bodacious or drug - addictive television set to confirm the words of the bank manager that mentality, fascists, young men, and all sorts of bads have come together in Kiev. These methods have already been well worked during last year’s opposition talks, and 13 young people are still struggling in the shades of the Lukyanian Sizo. Apparently in the arsenal of suppressing the protest "Rise, Ukraine!" There are other preparations, but what we know today is enough to strongly warn all the people, to warn the European community, "Gentlemen, you're playing with fire, you're creating a fire of tension in the center of Europe!" By using similar methods, the authorities themselves will propel a boat of civil peace in society, causing growing opposition to the entire nation. Those who solve such events will be responsible for the possible consequences. Ukrainian Socialists are turning to the people of Ukraine, to all the democratic forces, to the world community: the Ukrainian authorities today, in an effort to preserve their rule ready for any provocation, let's be ready for it, keep peace and stamina, and victory will be for the truth! One more. The newspaper Silesian News received a letter from a resident of the village of Krasine Krivoriz in the Dnipropetrov region of Valentina Andrijavni Lipko. She writes that the peasants applied for a nursing board. The final is like everywhere: she was called to the executioner, to the head of the administration, banned from taking any kind of care, was intimidated by fines and so forth. This is how power works today. We hope that the MPs and all the progressive people support this action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! I think you're using your colleagues' time, so let's be polite. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u195	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I fully support my colleague Baranowski's speech and urge our disadvantaged voters to take part in the September 16 campaign in Kiev and in all regions of Ukraine to show the government what it is and the constitutional way to change this power. As far as I'm concerned, I'm on the rostrum. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We, the national electorate, must constantly take care of the high authority of the higher legislative body of our nation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. An integral part of a set of practical measures in this direction is the inescapable implementation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Sadly, this is not always the case in practice. As an example, I cite a violation of current legislation in the election of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of agrarian politics and land relations. At a meeting of the committee held on 12 June this year, the deputy head of the committee was elected a member of the "One Ukraine" National Deputy of Ukraine, Gladys Mikhail Vasilovich, in violation of article 26, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to which "the first deputy and deputy head cannot be members of one faction". [[groups]] In this case, the first deputy head of the National Deputy Kalinchuk and deputy head of the People's Chamber of Gladys on the day of election to the post Gladys were members of the one-deputy faction "The One Ukraine", and now they are members of the one-deputy faction "Agrarians of Ukraine". My oral comment on this point was not taken into account at the committee’s meeting. I made a written request to the chairman of the committee of Tomić and suggested that at the next meeting of the committee that the matter should be brought into line with the above law. However, on June 19th, at a committee meeting, after the first deputy head of the committee, Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, who allegedly had an explanation of the Chief Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council, said that violations of the law in the election of the national deputy Gladys as deputy head of the committee were not allowed, my proposal was not supported by the members of the committee. It was later learned that there was no official explanation or conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In this regard, I was forced to address the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with a parliamentary request announced on July 2. Sometime later, I received information from the Supreme Council Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, which was directed to the Head of the Supreme Council. It fully confirms the existence of a violation of article 26, paragraph 2, of the law and draws the attention of the committee’s chairman. However, no action has been taken to date, and the disregard for existing legislation continues. I appeal again to you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to take measures that are in the arsenal of the Supreme Council to stop this violation of the law. We do not have the moral right to accept the staining of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on which this would not be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u196	National Deputy Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Allow me to make a statement to the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Inter-Parliamentary Group "Ukraine-Georgia". "On September 11th, on the anniversary of the tragic events and the death of thousands of innocent people in New York, every politician was able to think about the value of human life, the horror of terrorist acts and the cost of political adventures. On this background, a statement by President Vladimir Putin of Russia was made ultimatively calling for the leadership of Georgia and clearly indicating the possibility of military operations in the territory of an independent state. Any attempt to translate the internal problems of the Russian Federation into neighbouring countries seems insincere. So far, no political figure has claimed responsibility for the recent bombing of Georgian territory and civilian casualties. The violation of international law cannot be justified by the artificially hypertrophysic need to combat international terrorism in Georgia. Powerful methods for neighbouring countries cannot be accepted in the 21st century in interstate relations. Ukraine traditionally enjoys friendly and warm relations with Georgia. The Ukrainian and Georgian nations carried the entire historical burden of imperial bondage in order to gain independence. And today our countries want to achieve effective cooperation in international cooperation. As a result, the escalation of political and military tensions in the Caucasus region is a legitimate concern for Ukrainian parliamentarians. We state our indifference and willingness to carefully track developments on the Russian-Georgian border, to contribute to the peaceful resolution of the problems that arise. At the same time, after a statement by the President of Russia on September 11th of this year, the Ukrainian Parliament formed a parliamentary group "Ukraine-Georgia" composed of more than 30 national deputies from 12 MP factions aimed at deepening the inter-parliamentary relations between the two states. Ukrainian parliamentarians, members of this group, will use all the possibilities of international parliamentary organisations to preserve peace and to resolve the conflict in Russian Georgian relations as soon as possible." This statement was supported by the majority of the group that agreed with the content of the statement. Its purpose is not to strain the tension, but to make sure that the SND is never transformed into a cooperative state so that the SNDs will never be the scene of permanent military and political conflicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u198	Mikhail Vasilovich Kosov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u199	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! I want to draw your attention to an event that took place in this room on Wednesday, September 11. This day was supported by a parliamentary request by Georgi Kruchkov to Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Seminozhenko that, according to the media, there was a meeting of the President of Ukraine with the leadership of the UCC, during which the teaching of religion in schools as a teaching class was allegedly under way. As head of a subcommittee on religion and interfaith relations in the Supreme Council, I would like to testify that this information is not entirely objective and is no longer accurate. The problem is that in Ukraine, as in all the Christian nations of the world, educational institutions have been opened and run that provide students with religious education. However, this education has not been recognized in our country for a long time. You can be a believer or an unbeliever, but theology is a science, a teaching subject, and it should be included by the Ministry of Education in the list of subjects that are studied in our educational institutions. [[This is a matter of freedom of conscience for every citizen who is guaranteed by the Constitution.]] Then the diplomas given to graduates of theology schools should be certified, or recognized, at the national level. It is in all the world, so it is now in Russia and even in Belarus. In fact, graduates of theological academy of various denominations generally do not become ministers of worship, priests, and they work in the fields of philosophy, ethics, morals, rights, history, journalism, and skills. Not admitting it today means showing our own underdevelopment. It's about school. There should be an optional teaching of Christian ethics, and it should be done by experienced teachers, not by priests. The need to study this subject is explained by the fact that the civilization of European nations, the history of nations, culture, literature, art, moral principles, and ethical standards of human behavior have been crystallized on the basis of Christian teaching, and no one can deny it. Just one example. Can the student at school understand the essence of Shevchenk's poem "Mary" or Frank "Moisi"'s poem if he has no basic knowledge of the Holy Scriptures? Now the last one. I want to make a brief statement. "I, Mikhailo Kosov, who is part of a generation of 60-year-old dissidents, have tried, for my belief, even a Chegebist prison, joining the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" . [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u200	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please. Dear colleagues! We're basically running out of time. I want to consult with you. Let's work for half an hour, because we've got an hour left on the Miscellaneous. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u201	"Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! What happened today, about what was the statement made by a group of national deputies, "Ukraine-Georgia"? There was a threat of occupation of the sovereign state, a member of the SND of Georgia on the part of our northern "great neighbour and friend", the Russian Federation. So the Party of Fatherland's Defenders is addressing you parliamentarians with an urgent request that I, as a national MP, as the party's head of support. As we have learned, under pressure from Washington and Moscow, Ukraine is forced to hand over existing bombers to scrap metal, and we will not build others for much longer. Turning to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to prevent the reduction and disarmament of Ukraine, which has aggressive neighbours, we ask the National Security and Defence Committee to report to the Supreme Council on the state of arms reduction and the use of parliamentary control measures to prevent violations of the rights of the Ukrainian people. I'm being asked where will the Party of Fatherland Defenders be? The Party of Fatherland Defenders, like its head Yuri Karmazin, will defend the Constitution of Ukraine and its people at the European Square in Kiev and in other cities of Ukraine by joining the action "Rise, Ukraine!".. We were the first in 1995, when 240 delinquents, together with the President at the Marian Palace, celebrated an "anti-constitutional" treaty, announced the threat of dictatorship. That's how it started, June, 1995. And to the end. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I am addressing you as one of the highest officials of the state, with such requests. First. Do not leave Ukraine on the day the action is planned. Please don't go on any overseas expeditions, no matter where you're sent! The other one. Perhaps you can do better than I can to bring to the attention of the Attorney-General of Ukraine that the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to address and to receive immediately the General Prosecutor of Ukraine, because, starting the second day after the appointment of the Saint-Piscoon, I have not been able to bring to him the information concerning the discovery of the murder case of George Gongadze. [[Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like you to listen.]] Now I want to publish a little message, give it to you. You might be able to do that, because more than a dozen of my phone calls I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u202	Let's stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u203	Let's stick to it, so figure out the time when you've been distracted, and I'm very concise. So the message is, "Stolen jaws and shoulders. [[I want it fixed in the transcript because then things like the Turk's happen.]] I'm from an ex-IMD employee. I'm sure Kravchenko does the cleaning, two people, Grigorenko, have seen them before." The following message: "The participants have a place of disposal. I'm gonna go out on that phone. I know the layout of Gongadze. All implementing actors from seven to two remain alive. There's a sweep coming. I've managed to leave so far. The participants are five Moscows, Kievlians and I, Odessit. There's a sweep coming. Five are dead. I'm gone. I have George's head and a video of George's conversation. I'm hurt. I don't know who the buyer is. The executioner was killed. Search for clues to clean up Mark Igor's death. He was not in the U.S.S. of the city of Odessa in December." The connection was broken, and there are no further messages. With regard to these reports and many other facts, I wanted to talk to the new Attorney General of Ukraine. Sadly, I failed. Perhaps you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, will succeed. I'll give them to you, please use them as you can. I have the honour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u204	Thank you. National MP Levcun. Dear colleagues, let's make a deal: three minutes, and I'll turn off the microphone, otherwise I'll be blamed for not following the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u205	Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to read out a statement made by the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s parliamentary group from interparliamentary relations with the Republic of Iraq. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give appropriate tasks to the committee responsible for the initiatives outlined in this statement. "One of the biggest problems that is being solved by the politicians of the world today is whether or not to be at war in Iraq. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must determine its position in solving this problem and do everything possible and impossible to prevent war for the following reasons. First, war is human sacrifice, no one can predict how much blood will spill, how many people will die, and today there is no problem with Iraq that needs to be solved by the bloodshed of thousands of people. Secondly, Ukraine is a unique state in the world that voluntarily gave up a huge nuclear arsenal. In making such a decision, we thought that international relations and democracy had achieved such a level of development that aggression by one State was virtually impossible in relation to another, because the world community was cutting off acts of aggression by all means. In this case, the decision to start a war is made by two people, Bush and Blair, who are clearly not democratic and contrary to international standards, poses a threat to global security. Thirdly, no one can predict how many states will be involved in this conflict, what types of weapons will be used, what will be the consequences in general. One possible consequence is the global environmental disaster, since the vast areas of Iraq are covered with oil wells that can be turned into burning torches in wartime, throwing millions of tons of various harmful substances into the atmosphere. In view of the fact that on earth today we are seeing a disturbance in natural balance, the various natural disasters that cause enormous damage, the loss of many lives, it is evident that not only the local consequences of this war but also the global impact cannot be predicted. [[in the fighting zone]] This will set a precedent when one or two leaders can make decisions about the start of war against one of the nations of the world and lead to virtually unforeseeable results. And since Bush has declared the entire evil of a number of countries, war can be protracted. In Afghanistan, they were looking for Usama bin Laden, they bombed the country, but Usama wasn't found. In Iraq nuclear weapons will be sought, although it is widely known that there is sufficient evidence of these weapons in Iraq that no one has given them, not to mention their intentions. The question is, What will they seek, and where will they seek beyond the proper evidence of the existence of what they are looking for? What methods will that search take? And most of all, it's clear that these are the kind of searches.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u206	Your time is up. Thank you. Turn off the microphone, please. Well, finish up, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u207	Above all, it is clear that such searches will necessarily lead to great tragedies on a global scale. In view of what has been said, we propose that we give urgent consideration and address to the parliaments of the world a call in which to propose the creation of an inter-parliamentary group on a global scale that would work with the parliaments of the world to prevent military conflicts that violate international standards of inter-State relations. The Parliament of Ukraine should initiate the establishment of such an organ, taking into account the uniqueness of the country as a result of the refusal of nuclear weapons, which is an unprecedented example of the development of international movement today."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u208	Turn off the microphone, please. People's Deputy Stays. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u209	Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs. [[Election District 127, Lviv region]] Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I would like to associate with my colleague, Mr. Oleg Belarus, who heads the Second Committee of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. As vice-president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to stress in particular that the fact that the Shevchenkov court decides not to grant a permit to hold a rally in the European square, the facts of the beating of the Turkish deputy and his assistant are indeed manifestations of violations of fundamental constitutional freedoms in Ukraine, human rights, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and freedom of assembly. So I am convinced that everyone in this room is not indifferent to what image we are shaping for our Ukraine and our descendants. The other one. You heard a statement today from the deputy group "Ukraine-Georgia" about events in Georgia. I am also one of those who prepared the application, and I fully support its text. I'd like to say that both Russia and Georgia are our neighbours, so we can't be indifferent to what's going on in Russian-Georgian relations. We just heard a statement about Iraq. Unfortunately, I see two blood parallels that are now very clearly depicted. The first is the United States, Iraq, and the second is Russia, Georgia. In my opinion, we see even the same methods and methods of conducting undeclared wars so far. Of course, it's not random. As members of our delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, we are witnesses to the fact that throughout the year the issue of relations between Georgia and Russia is constantly being heard at the Assembly of the OSCE. In particular, last year the issue of the withdrawal of troops from the military base in Goodaut, and the speaker of the Russian Duma, our colleague Seleznów, promised that Russian troops from Goodauti would be withdrawn, but this did not happen; his promise was not fulfilled. This year we heard the question that Russia is quite active in providing Russian citizenship to the people of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. [[In fact, we see the same thing in Transnistria, and in this way they also try to influence the ongoing conflict.]] Therefore, I am convinced that we, the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament, must do our utmost to resolve this conflict peacefully. I invite the Head of the Supreme Council and the newly created Group "Ukraine-Georgia" to send, if necessary, a delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Georgia and perhaps even the Pankish Valley to see what's really going on there. [[in the event of an escalation in the situation]] Because yesterday, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Georgia said that only 30 or 40 bandits were in this valley. [[and not known or Chechen nationality]] So I would ask you with all the responsibility to deal with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u210	Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u211	First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[electoral district 32, Dnipropetrovska oblast]] Krivbas. People's Landing. I'd like to say a few words about the poor pirate, and the pirate is this poor, rich, beautiful black metallurgy. Apparently, she's poor because she's very rich, and everyone thinks it's their duty to rip off her piece. You've heard: Border troops need to be strengthened, weapons need to be produced, geese, collegiates, i.e. agriculture is dying, the army needs to be maintained and so on. [["The village is dying" - that's what we always say.]] When I ask where we're going to get the money, they tell me we're going to take some of them and give them to others. You're going to take the steel industry, and it's only there, because 27 percent of GDP, 45 percent of the currency is steel. What does nobody say about this "gusar"? Do you think it's a dairy cow?Oh, my God! She's already skinned! Look what's going on! To date, metalworking combinations stand without scrap metal. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'll tell you, you listen! I'm not asking you questions when you're speaking. And it's very simple to open. The tax administration is talking about VAT. Where's the VAT? Let's take the aluminum alloys. You see, on the London Stock Exchange, one ton is worth $1020 to $1030. And ours are already up to $2.5,000. [[Here's my certificate.]] What, nobody sees that? Well, it's a sacred thing. It's a flower! Let's get back to the steel industry. We're saying no investors are coming. Who's coming?Oh, my God! It's a Donkey Metalworks plant. The president was in Makeevka, and I came and went to another factory earlier. It was abandoned, like in Maceevka, the factory. It's a thriving factory now. The Pakistani invested $80 million in it, made a line that is better than the world practice: vacuum cleaner, Italian electrician, everything is, but they don't work. [[Trust me as a professional.]] Why? There's no scrap metal! It's 30 percent capacity, 5,000 workers without pay! So where are we looking? Meanwhile, all the scrap metal is exported. They say there's no law. I'll give you a draft law according to which the Government should be given the right to prohibit the export of scrap metal if they are not provided by our factories. He's been in the Cabinet of Ministers under his dress for a month. Dear colleagues, there was a meeting of the Committee on 11 September. We have proposed setting a zero VAT rate on scrap metal because there is no added value. This question has to be asked literally in the next plenary week. It's winter. There's no stock. We'll have gas, we'll have everything, but there won't be any money. Help that poor pirate! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u212	Cloud People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block of July.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u213	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like my statement to be considered an urgent parliamentary request to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, for immediate attention to the Attorney General of Ukraine, demanding that a criminal case be promptly brought against the Assistant People's Deputy, Ruslan Lukianczuk, and the People's Deputy, Alexander Turkinov. Please also contact the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Radchenk, for immediate investigation into the gang attack against the national deputy Alexander Turkinov and his assistant, Ruslan Lukyanchuk. I think that the people's deputies and you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, will support this parliamentary request because you realize that this is an unheard fact, it's an act of banditry. By the way, such acts have been repeated by tax police officers who work really hard in masks. In the middle of the day, they drove on a minibus called Mazda to the office of the Party of Fathers and literally kidnapped Lukyanchuk. [[car number 22734 CA]] And when the national deputy stood up for his assistant, he was immediately subjected to physical force, he was hit on the head, he was forcibly removed from the road, and these people went in an unknown direction. [[He was standing in front of the car.]] Do you understand what this is doing?Oh, my God! In broad daylight! This was the case in Haiti when dictator Duvalier’s gangs allowed themselves to do so. So we want to turn into one of the worst banana republics? And to conclude, I would like to say that the terror that has spread all over Ukraine, and the fact that I called it in the MP's request, is a manifestation of the general criminal climate that has been set up by the Kuchma regime and its supporters in Ukraine. But regardless of intimidation, terror, civil disobedience, requiring the immediate resignation of the regime's leader, Leonid Kuchma, on September 16th in Kiev, in the European Square, will take place in any circumstances and at any time. [[And in the center, in our capital, and in the regions]] They will also take place in all the district centers, all the cities of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u214	Your time is up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u215	I urge all Ukrainian citizens to do their civic duty and to express their will to a better future Ukraine, which can only take place if Leonid Danilovich Kuchma is removed from office, which today is a brake to Ukraine’s normal development.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u216	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have sent an official request to the State Tax Administration to give us official information. In this connection, henaday Andrievich Vasiliev gave you some background. Let them deal with it, and then we'll officially inform the factions, the committees and every national MP. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov We've got ten minutes left on Razna. Of course, respectable colleagues, time is being monitored. We've taken an hour to get to "Razne" and we've been working for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u217	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I never take orders. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As a member of the interparliamentary group with Iraq, first of all I want to join the statement and say that we have a number of social organizations, including the All-U.S. Association of Friendships with the Iraqi People, whose government has also made a protest statement in connection with the preparation by the United States of America of aggression against the Iraqi people. You know the goal of aggression is to capture Iraq's oil assets! Oil supplies are one of the richest countries in the world, and oil is a strategic product, as you know, and it needs to be cleaned up. Iraq has been accused of producing nuclear, chemical, and bacteriological weapons and has waged an undeclared war against Iraq for 11 years, imposing an embargo on the Iraqi people. At the commission of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, I was handed over to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the head of the Iraqi Parliament. He corrected this appeal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This recommendation came to the head of the Supreme Council: Since such appeals are numerous, this appeal is directed to members of the interparliamentary group from relations with Iraq. It's a shame, I think! As a minimum, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we should have been familiar with this appeal by all the national deputies, for we have very few such appeals! And one more question. I'll give you one example, and you'll see what we're doing. Dear friends, I'll be there in 30 seconds! The National Academy of Sciences is an elite institution. Here a scientist gets a salary twice as high as that of a scientist in a branch office. The main figure in the National Academy of Sciences, as in any scientific or academic institution, is a senior scientific fellow. His maximum salary at the National Academy of Sciences is 490 bucks. Consider 70 dollars in taxes, 100 dollars in transportation, 160 dollars in quarterly payments, and 60 dollars in telephone and electricity — and 100 dollars in food, clothing, and shoes remain in the family of a senior science worker. 100 bracelets for shoes, for children’s textbooks, for family cultural requests, and for the purchase of scientific literature! [[And they have one or two kids.]] And this senior science worker is considered a middle - class representative! What the hell kind of class would he take? We must not mistreat our scientists as much as we do the entire nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u218	The word is given to Kuras Ivan Fedorovich, faction of "Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u219	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] You're the presiding officer! Dear colleagues! The fact that Ukraine’s new political season was supposed to be turbulent is well - known. All the slogans are known, the arguments are published, the motives are clear, and the moment of truth is constantly approaching. And that's why we need to think again today about the consequences that we might have, as we've heard from this rostrum, and that's what's causing the artificial radicalization of the counter-measures. In particular, there's obviously some way to explain to people the very meaning of the phrase, "Get up, Ukraine!": how much does the word "rebellion" correspond to the declared peaceful nature of the action on September 16th. For any semantic interpretation, this word is associated far from peaceful action, and for the latter there are more appropriate concepts. [[especially in view of our historical experience and memory]] In our view, under these circumstances, special roles and responsibilities belong to Parliament, to you and me, dear colleagues. That is why, using the high parliamentary rostrum, I would like, on behalf of the faction of the "Region of Ukraine," to encourage representatives of various political forces and, accordingly, our parliamentary factions -- and on the left and on the right -- to dialogue, to tolerance, to constructively discuss those really mature problems that need to be addressed in practice. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction is ready for such a dialogue, for such cooperation, and we should probably start here by discussing the ways of reforming the political system. It's really a paradox that we have a lot of concepts and laws that touch on reforming all sectors and areas of the economy, the social sphere, the military sphere, international life, but still, over ten years, the scientifically based concept of reform of the political system has not been created. Perhaps that is why we have so many problems in other areas of social life. There is an understanding of this colossus. I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that there was a fairly representative scientific conference last June, where both the President and the scientists and the leaders of the political parties presented their views both on the left and on the right. Perhaps today was the time to continue such a work in tolerant forms. Taking this opportunity, I am addressing you, Your Honor, to the leadership of the Supreme Council. Perhaps we should make a statement about the tolerance, the peaceful nature of all the actions that should take place, the call for understanding, civil peace and tranquillity. Perhaps we would ask the Head of the Supreme Council to make such a statement? In any event, I think without this Supreme Council, our Parliament, it simply cannot today be a real factor of stability, peace and tranquillity in our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u220	The word is given to Richter’s Paradise Basilic. She's got Savitsky on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u221	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. [[constituency 41, Donetsk Region]] Dear National Deputies! I was moved by today's state of affairs in implementing the privatization legislation. During this week, some of the national deputies put a question into the room about the situation in the Komsomol Rudouf of the Donetsk Region. The law on privatization was violated, and then the new owner violated his obligations to creditors. I am no longer concerned with the question why the Cabinet of Ministers, by its decree, allowed privatization without a tender, without providing transparent conditions for privatization, how did it even take such a decision? Another question I wonder is, Are the decisions of the courts in our country in effect? This company has a loan of 60 million dollars. The new owner does not want to fulfill his obligation. There are judgments that are not executed. And the efforts of some of our colleagues today to turn this issue into a political plane, to force the Supreme Council to engage in a political understanding of relations, there is no basis for believing. I'm asking the people's deputies, when the question -- the repayment of debts to creditors -- is to be considered on committees, and then on the Supreme Council, to make sure it's returned to the right. Please accept my invitation to the session room as a matter of law. And the request to the Head of the Supreme Council to the relevant state institutions to ensure that creditors' rights are protected and that such violations of the privatization legislation that are now permitted are not allowed. [[Attorney General's Office, Supreme Court of Arbitration]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u222	Thank you. Savic Valentin Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u223	Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. [[constituency 67, Žitomirsk Region]] Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I've been on the phone for a few days. They are very and very much asking MPs not to involve their children and relatives in mass protests, which some political forces want to use for rematch, their own political and career goals. I got a telegram yesterday. We are approached by people from the community of Novograd Volinsky, asking you to be wise and reasonable. They were tired of watching street "explorings", resisting political forces in parliament, living in a state of constant tension and uncertainty, fearing for their children and loved ones. We already know the facts that characterize the work of emissaries who organize protests in universities: the Karpenko-Karogo Institute, at the Lviv National University of Technology. They intervene in the teaching process, encourage students not to go to the audience, but to go out, organize hunger without even realizing what it is for? It's not democracy anymore, it's the way to disorder and anarchy. I'm talking to the Vice Prime Minister on humanitarian issues, the Minister of Education: please don't let the learning process be disrupted, don't involve young people in these actions. We went through all of these in the '90s, and nothing but stopping our development, democratic processes, social disorder, that didn't bring us. That's not gonna work! Everything should be conducted in a legal, constitutional field, not an anarchist’s! Instead of waving swords and globes, we should sit at a negotiating table and work hard on committees, factions, to deal with all the pressing problems of today. Taking into account the appeal of my constituents, I urge all the national MPs to make every effort not to allow mass disturbances in the streets and areas of our cities, because this can cause no harm to people and our young people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u224	Paul Mikhailovich Silent, and we are done. That's the last word, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u225	Dear friends, that's the last word. Excuse me, a moment of your attention! Ivan Fedorovich, dear John Fedorovich, I was ready to continue the dialogue with you to lay down all the dots. [[And that was the possibility in this session hall in May.]] We have done everything possible to have our dialogue held outside the parliament outside this session room. And we could work it out. But you keep calling, you pretend like the election didn't happen, and if it did, you're the only one who won. You pretend that you alone have the right to form a government, to delegate your representative to the Administration. A small party that in Lviv before the district council delegated only two of its deputies now has 22 deputies at the expense of the funds. She buys deputies like some people used to buy here. That's why I, Your Honor Gennady Andryovich, say such a thing. Once the great Russian philosopher Solovyov, a Ukrainian of origin, said that the state was created, not to transform earthly life into a paradise, but to make it a hellfire. We have made the country a completely self-sufficient mechanism that deals exclusively with self-service, made Ukraine official and unofficial and distributed. And you want it all to be legalized forever. You want us to be deprived of all fundamental rights of expression. On UT-1 we have the right to say the word that people need that is true? No! No! There is the word The Watchtower that replaced the word Dolganov, but in a worse way. How can we not speak of a person who has lost everything in disgrace and has gained a meager number of votes, but who becomes the first deputy head of the administration to do whatever he wants? The man who served the interests of a small group here, Zuravsky, is being made Secretary of State and is today breaking contracts with the rectors of higher education institutions who have their opinions that no one was killed 10 or 20 years ago because they are great scientists, they are outstanding personalities. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will support this situation further and everyone will say that someone is in charge. You're the one who usurped her, and you want to hold her back. The people don't want that. Do you understand that or not?Oh, my God! I'm a reasonable man. I wanted to do my job. I've got a lot of work to do, a lot of work to do, but I'm forced, you make me, my lady, to go out on the street. Bodelan says our vector is to the east. The vector to the east? The President tells us both in his letter and from the rostrum that we are integrated into Europe, that our path is there, and Bodelan, who speaks the national language by breaking the Constitution, is calling us to some east! Because there's financial interests there, because there's a Hangman there who's got his own interests and the same man who assured us that all it takes is stability. [[Janukovich]] What's that? Every day, miners, one and a half billion government debt, die before private skyscrapers! Oblenergo is privatized. Who's to pay one and a half billion, Your Honor? In a week, you will consider the issue of debt in the coal sector. Who's to return this money if this coal is going to a private skyscraper? Once again, the state is robbed, robbed, destroyed, and described as stable. [[Janukovich knows these procedures]] Only the situation on the cemetery is stabilizing! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-13-m0.u226	Deputies! Everyone who signed up was in the "Victory." The meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Next week we'll be working on committees, factions and groups. The plenary session will take place on September 24.
