ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the “Council” system. [[10:02:34]] Registered -419 There are 419 National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Martinovsky Valerius Pavlovich and Bastriga Ivan Mikhailovich. Let us welcome them and wish them health, success. Please listen to another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputies of Ukraine Bondarczuk Sergey Vasilovich from the European Election Group, Abdulina Alexander Rafkatović from the European Choice Group and his membership in the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Honorable national deputies, according to the regulations of Friday, we discuss the issue of the order of the day. You have a list of questions to consider. There are no requests under the rules, but if you'll excuse me, I could announce the requests that have come. And then we'd consult on the procedure. No objections? A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: the National Deputies Group - Katerinczuk, Lebedivsky, Ostaš and others to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine for the official use of the plan of action of Ukraine-NATO. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:04:33]] For-183 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:04:58]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Didn't hear it on your request. I'm voting on the President's request. This requires at least 226 votes. Please make up your mind. [[10:05:28]] For 251 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the lifting of the order of the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the discharge of the post of Head of the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption, the head of the presidency of the Free Association of Solidarity Workers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:06:07]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Viacheslava Kirilenko, Alexander Goodima, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the reaction to the incompatibility with the status of diplomat to the action of the extraordinary and authoritative Ambassador of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatoly Kozlowski. I said, the decision is made. Anatolia Kozlowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the insufficient funding of the measures envisaged by the 2002 budget for the elimination of the environmental consequences of the situation in the Pervomaj region of Mikolaiiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:12]] For 176 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the socio-economic development problems of Borislav Hersson region and the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decision on the main directions for ensuring the integrated development of small mono-functional cities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:47]] For 190 Decision taken. Mikhail Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the evenly quarterly financing of state support for the construction of technical equipment for coal-producing enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:19]] For-163 Decision taken. Mr. Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the fines applied to the farmer. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:44]] For-182 For -182, the decision is made. Anatolia Orzhachowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, regarding the situation that took place in the activities of the agricultural cooperative "Hersson County Hope". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:14]] For-143 For -143, the decision is made. Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the refusal to consult the joint order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Department of State for the approval of instructions to ensure the safe and restricted movement of vehicles with persons protected by other categories of means of transport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:50]] For-183 For - 183, the decision is made. Istwana Hajduša to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the investment project for the restoration of wine and wine production at the Beregivsky plant of Zacarpatsk district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:20]] For-142 For -142, the decision is made. Mikoli Karnauha to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of a criminal case involving the death in the Poltav region of Oleg Usik. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:49]] For 190 For 190, the decision is made. Michaela Kosova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the actions of the Prosecutor's Office to investigate the use of the Swiss bank account set up for the citizen of Kravczuk for the theft of state funds. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:21]] For-162 For -162, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for protesting the order of the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to dismiss the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. That's two questions. I understand, but two separate questions are coming up. I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:11:58]] For-52 For 52, no decision is taken. Vladimir Bondar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration for Violations of Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine and Article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine by the representatives of the Tax Police regarding the Ukrainian People's Deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:35]] For a hundred and For 150, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of prosecutors responsible for the disclosure of pretrial investigation and investigation data. [[Lovín, Bogetirova, Homutinnik]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:04]] For-151 For -151, the decision is made. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failing to execute the decision by the Alukin City Chief of Staff to provide the journalist Rahim Gumatov with the necessary information and his accreditation to the City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:37]] For 178. For - 178, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for the misconduct of officials of the Tax Police in the Sumskie region. [[Red, Alexi and others]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:06]] For-179 For - 179, the decision is made. Valery Assadchev to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration in connection with the violation of the rights of a disabled person. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:31]] For-149 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the requirements of part two of article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the duty of an official of the State Authority, addressed by the parliamentary address, to consider and provide a written response to the National Deputy of Ukraine within 10 days of its receipt, to the violation by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Zajchuk of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on State Service, the constitutional rights of citizens to the public service as a result of unlawful refusal to conduct competitions in the positions of civil servants of the third, seventh category, to the absence of mandatory publications on vacancies of public officials, which were to be extended through the media. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:37]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of official information on the course of investigation into the violation of environmental law by officials of the Nikita Botanical Garden of State and the natural reserve of Miss Martian. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:14]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues! On Wednesday, we agreed that we would take 30 minutes today for speeches, statements by national MPs who were unable to exercise their right on Wednesday. Is there any objection? In addition, we agreed that today we would dedicate our meeting to making decisions. So I'd like to agree to this meeting schedule. Now we're going to take 30 minutes to make statements from national MPs with applications, queries, information, and then we're going to make decisions on the issues that are scheduled for the meeting. Who is it that today, in order to decide whether we should make a decision now on this day, please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:17:24]] For 230 Decision taken. Roman Zvaric with motives, and I'm asking respectable colleagues to sign up for the speech. No, we're not from factions, we're from national MPs. With motive? Just a minute. Roman Zvaric with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm not out of motive, I'm out of procedure. I will draw attention to you and the entire MP's body to the gross violation of the Rules that may be made in this room if we put a bill to the vote amending the customs tariff of Ukraine at registration number 1027. Again, I call your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the fact that this law has been voted not twice, but three times. He didn't get the right number of votes. Thus, according to the Rules, he is regarded as being rejected in this session. We can go back to that question just in the next session. So I'm very much asking this question to be removed from the order of the day today. If this is not done, the faction "Our Ukraine" will not take part in any vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u3	I ask the Secretariat and the committee to investigate this issue so that we do not create conflict. I ask you a lot of questions, and you can provide appropriate help. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there was a mistake or something in the chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Well, can I? I'll talk to you. Yesterday, the session was closed, more specifically, by a plenary meeting in the decision-making process under Bill 2256. Bill 2256/1 is not an alternative, it's an appendix to 2256. Today, everything that wasn't voted on yesterday is included, and 2256/1 has gone somewhere. I don't understand why. There are exactly the same rules, namely the transfer of a specific rate of duty to a percentage, as in Bill 2256. I emphasize that they are not alternatives. And there's no reason for that. It's all there is, and it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u5	I ask the Secretariat to submit this document here. We'll take a look at it. Well, if you'll excuse me. The procedure's over, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you with a very big request. Today, question 1027 is a political issue for the village. We paid over a billion dollars to foreign plant protection providers, which have been increased to 20 times. I want to ask you, if we want to help the village and protect them from strangers, because the Boiler is lobbying "Massandra," which has raised billions of dollars from the village. I'd like to ask you to support the village and give this to the car. Because we have natives, but they don't. I'm asking you very much: support, this is for the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u7	The replica. National MP Zvaric. Please don't call your name, I'm begging you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u8	I am grateful to Deputy Gapoczka for giving me the opportunity to say something in essence on this bill. I was speaking when this bill was discussed, and I drew the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies to the fact that the government in its explanatory note practically introduces the MPs into fornication, into deception. Because the explanatory note stated that this bill was in agreement with the European Union. In line with the European Integration Committee’s decision, I was obliged to find out what was right. It has been found that this bill is in no way in agreement with the European Union, so it can hinder us on the path of European integration. So I insist on asking him to be removed from the agenda. I remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that if this bill is not excluded from the agenda, the faction "Our Ukraine" will not take part in today's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u9	National MP Baranowski. I think we'll understand and take pictures if we have to. Well, I just want us to work. National MP Baranowski. Let's move on to the schedule of meetings, to the schedule of meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u10	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Dear colleagues, there are some who are very fond of us in Europe, and they are very lobbying for the interests of Europe. I know that the faction of "Our Ukraine" is a nation-renowned people. And they are more interested in Ukraine. But I can't understand one thing. We went with you to cancel the benefits. And group 124 canceled. Remember, when a sunflower was introduced, our factories were running. What about this case? In this case, it is suggested that these poisons are still unnecessary to drive for a billion dollars in Ukraine, and our production stands. There were 5,000 people in Chercas working at the Hymreact factory. Today 300 people are buried in a whole field, and we're looking at it, and it's kind of like the national interests of Ukraine here we're showing. We need to adopt this law immediately. And one more thing. The Customs Council has looked at it twice. And that's exactly what Ukraine's interests and entry into WTO and those recommendations that Europe is making. So let us be objective and not cover ourselves, but we will really defend Ukraine’s interests. One lobbies metal, the other lobbies meat, and the third one lobbies meat. The country is dying.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the meeting schedule. As we agreed, it's now 30 minutes for the national MPs with statements, reports, information, and then we follow the timetable we've set. So the next is information we have from the power structures. I invite you to speak to Stepan Ilkovich Cloud. Get ready for Zybenko. Please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, before I speak, I would like to find out whether today will be different and whether we will consider the question of the beating of National Deputy Michael Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u13	The thing is, we agreed that we have 30 minutes of performances now, and then it's all on schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u14	And it's "Virgin" too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u15	The second question is information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u16	Okay. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to draw your attention once again to what today is impeding the construction of the rule of law and thus preventing Ukraine from slipping into a totalitarian system. First of all, it is necessary for the Supreme Council and the people’s deputies to take the principle of upholding the laws of all Ukrainian national deputies. I am deeply concerned about the situation that has taken place today in the High Council of Justice, this very important constitutional body, which has a serious impact on the formation of an extremely important branch of power, the judiciary. I would like to remind you once again that the Supreme Council of Justice is headed by the illegitimate head of this council, National Deputy Kiwalov, who is in grave violation of the 19th article of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, the 3rd article of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and the 1st article of the same law. And I would like to remind you that the 1st article of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy states that a national MP in the exercise of his parliamentary powers should be governed by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the principles of morality. It is here that all these norms are violated, starting with the Constitution and ending with issues such as moral problems. Therefore, I would like to point out that in addition to this, some of our representatives, and in particular Mr. Seljinov's doctor of law, who represents the Supreme Council of the High Council of Justice, are also appropriately violating the oath by voting in favour of an illegal decision to recognize the head of the Higher Council of Justice of Mr. Kiwalov. That's why I'm asking you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to consider this statement as a parliamentary request, and to ask the Supreme Council for a review of Mr. Seljinov's appeal to the High Council of Justice in connection with his violation of the oath. And to do everything possible to enforce the law in the activities of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u17	National Deputy Yeshchenko, please. You're handing over, Peter Stepanovich? Can I have a glass, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u18	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich! Vladimir Leschchenko. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the deputy union of the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Dear colleagues! On December 13, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litwin, announced the creation of the "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia" Zubr in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At that time, a statement by the MPs and a list of members of the national deputies was distributed. In view of the fact that there was little need to report on the following day of the National Deputies in the Hall. The Interfractional Union "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia" of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began its existence in 2000. It was then made up of 104 Ukrainian deputies, then similar associations were created in the national congregations of Belarus and in the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. Among the MPs, three fraternal nations formed close working ties. In June 2001, the Inter-Parliamentary Union " For the Union, Ukraine, Belarus and Russia " was established, and at the 18th session of Parliamentary Assemblys of the Union of Belarus and Russia, held in Grodno in 2000, we were given the status of permanent observer in this federal body. I will immediately point out that the creation of a political union between the three nations today is not in the order of the day, and its solution will depend on many political, economic and other factors. First of all, from public opinion and social and political order in each of the independent states. The goal of the Zubr Parliamentary Union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is to combine the efforts of the three parliaments to create, at the legislative level, favourable conditions for further inter-State, economic integration of the preservation and development of Slovenian culture and spirituality and on this basis to improve the social conditions of our citizens' lives. In recent times, we have also seen active actions and the higher authorities of the state, executive power of Ukraine in strengthening interstate, economic ties with Russia and Belarus. So our intentions in this direction are congruent. I'm informing the Ukrainian National Deputies that 84 people are now members of the Zubr Association of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the eleven MP factions and groups except for the Democratic Initiatives and the NDP. Congregations after the reunification took place on December 10, this year. A number of documents were adopted, and a committee of seven members and a secretariat was selected. I'm tasked with coordinating the committee's work. At present, contacts with similar MPs in Belarus and Russia are being restored. The door to membership of the Zubr Parliamentary Union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is always open to all national MPs. We invite you to place your signatures under the application for the restoration of Zubru. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u19	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. Yesterday, I received a call from the Black people's representatives of the City Council. On another occasion, the city council expressed their mistrust to Mr. Theophile Bauer. Here's what I want to talk to Victor Medvedchuk about. When, after all, will it be done on the Booklet to have a host there, that there be a man who would find compromises in working with everyone to respect local self-government? And ultimately, who's going to be responsible for what's happening in the Bukovina economy, with the deforestation -- who's going to be responsible? I believe that no commission on the Bucovin has answered that question and probably won't. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine points to the following situation. It's a terrible situation in the country today. We believe that, apart from declarations, nothing is done by the government and the President to remedy the situation in the country. So far, the government has been unable to repay debts to peasants for bank loans for the sale of cattle of high-weighted conditions, with debt reaching about 80 million. That's right. These are the kind of funds that peasants really need today. How many are we going to fool these people?Oh, my God! How many declarations are we going to be to help the village?Oh, my God! Where, though, is the State?Oh, my God! Why did she turn away from the village today when the agro-industrial complex was the most powerful in Europe 10 years ago? Today, they're living there, barely making ends meet, as our peasants say. In 2002, virtually tens of factories were lost in the processing of sugar beet. Today on Bukovin, I have clear information, at the contagion sugar plant people stand two or three days to get sugar for their work! Who is in charge of our country? Who will answer?Oh, my God! We re-appreciated the attention of the President, the government -- please take measures that are effective to make the village develop, not deteriorate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u21	National Deputy Boki Ivan Sidorovich. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, Ukraine honored yesterday with the grief of our lost airmen. And we all understand that there was an accident, an accident, and there was no pattern. In Ukraine, however, mourning needs to be announced every day for people who die of hunger and cold. Recently, as you know, in Lutsk, mother and daughter died of coldness. Traure was not announced in Ukraine. In the days of the village news, the poet Antonina November of the blockade, she wrote to Krasnodona, where they literally freeze in a 20-degree frost, almost freezes everything. And where people don't go, no one is going to help people. The maternity home is closed, and people can't heat up with gas because the gas is going weakly, or with electricity because the electricity is going out. And little children and old children are literally doomed to the cold. I think it's the fault of all the authorities, but first of all, it's the executives and not just the Krasnodon. Because this situation, literally, in many cities in Ukraine, I'm not talking about the village anymore. And if this cold goes on, if it lasts, then, I think we won't be counting many, many tens of thousands of people by the end of this winter. This has to be stopped. And I think today we need to address the executive authority, not the issue of majority or minority in the Supreme Council, but to deal directly with a particular matter. And it would be good if Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk was involved in the coup in the Supreme Council, but not in the coup d'état in the housing and utility sector. I think that in this climate of this cold-water disgrace and our President, who vetoed the Law on the Restructuring of Debt in Housing, because we all understand what we're talking about and why this is happening. Now, literally, the whole society, all the power structures have to go back to liberate the people from the cold claws, because it's much scarier than all the other claws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u23	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I went out to this rostrum today because the year 2002 and the New Year's Eve of 2003, I would like to go to my voters and answer some questions. There are a lot of letters coming to me, and I can't answer them, but they express the same problem, the same anxiety. I want to say today that the Communist faction did not vote in favour of the 2003 State Budget. And since 2002 there have been such problems. I want to emphasize that. The salary was very low. The services were very high. Unemployment is gaining momentum. The waywardness of leadership takes on great scales. Children today are shameless, children are unable to find employment and study in institutions or in other educational institutions. Subsidies for heat and solid fuel are not returned. Human preservation has not returned the queues that were last year for 50 dollars have annoyed our society. Production almost died. It's a tragedy in the country. I want to emphasize one more problem. Crime now rules our country, and it's dealing with it, and it's not his fault, because those stalls or those parts where the state has lost control, of course someone has to fill it in there. And we can see that there's another category of people there today. Does the nation know about this? I think I know very well. And on the example of his Red Matalist factory, which is today in Konotap, in my district, the Red Metalist plant, where the government is being held by a Social Democrat, so to speak, and today, with such support at state level, they cannot cope with this enterprise. I want to pay attention to that. The Svema factory in Shostka, which today owes a lot to the population. I want to say why we haven't been able to vote for this budget because it doesn't solve these issues. The savings will again be for 2003, the benefits to teachers and doctors, the minimum pension, salary, free medical treatment, and free education. This has not been resolved in the 2003 budget. Dear comrades, dear colleagues, are assigned a task in the state, which should then be done, the budget is accepted, then the program is accepted, and then the program is given a task. And we could make this budget one that would fully provide for the needs of our population. I, the honourable voters, would like to address you and congratulate you all on New Year's Day, 2003, and I want to say that if we don't have a category of politicians with you in 2003, who are ideally prepared to support this state, ideally, not for money, we will not be able to deal with these problems. I think everyone in the district has their own MP and every voter should come to him and say, "You, John Ivanovich, or you, Peter Petrovich, must today support the position of our electorates, yours, most of them, not your own interests." Then we could solve all these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u25	Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u26	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Once again, I was invited to this rostrum by the cry and groaning of human souls from the village of Pobuzeké Golovanów, in the region of Kirovograd, where there is now a complete genocide of the village. Every day, there are 2-3 men here who die of cold and hunger. In a village of 2,000,200 apartments and at a minus temperature in the yard, the apartments are not completely burned, the electricity is out, the water is out. In general, the village lacks heating for seven years, the heating system is out of order, and no repairs are in place. Because, according to the district and district authorities, there is nowhere to spend, and for the heating season, there are 550,000 dollars. I'd like to ask you, both in district management and in government, where does the money go for all the shows and the big prizes for all the winners? Many of you here know that the Pobuzsky Ferro-Nicyl plant, this factory was all-consolidated, it was built by all the republics of the former Soviet Union, it was given a case that was alone in the world and its first alloy factory was given on December 29, 1972. Here is a few days later, 30 years from the start of the factory. There were more than 2,000 workers working there, but for today there are only 100, and they work three or four hours, which is the right price. So all the inhabitants of the village are unable to pay, and you can imagine how these people are living. So far, the factory has been privatized, looted, and transported to the metalworks. The third director skillfully covered his tracks by stealing everything he left behind, setting him on fire, causing a major accident. But the patriotic workers put the factory on its feet, and it worked for 10 months. And he's standing dead again today waiting for the fourth director. Who will it be, who will it be, honest or thieves? The workers don't know. Everyone has put their hands down, and there is no hope for the better. The factory needs to be started immediately because there is a huge need for ferronicella in the world. We know that he has repeatedly addressed the great and universally elected President of Russia Putin, that Russia is in great need of ferroniquel. Russia and the world need this alloy. But only we don't need anything and nobody needs it. There's only a fight for banks, committees where you can do black work without witnesses, and no one's responsible. Are there only thieves and thieves and heartless observers in our country? From this rostrum I turn to all those who care about the fate of the country, our people, to respond to the request of the inhabitants of Pomuzky to help them. And please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u27	Mikhailo Kosov. Get ready for Anishtuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u28	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I'd like to address you with is this. On Wednesday evening, in the Court of Voice of Kiev, 15 young boys who participated in the famous events of March 9, 2001 were wronged for their cruelty. The verdict states that he is being sued in a higher court of appeal. However, despite the fact that yesterday, 271 deputies, you and I voted in favour of the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the boys had already been transferred to detention cells for the final convicts, where they could not appeal and appeal to the case. This confirms once again that the matter is completely custom - made. The second thing I wanted to do in front of you on Wednesday, but I didn't make it in time, was that you and I had to find a way out of this parliamentary crisis that we're in. I want to say with great satisfaction that we have found such a way out. I'm not commenting on the speech and I've never commented on the speeches of our fellow national MPs, but when I read an interview with Leonid Kravczuk yesterday, which is called "It's All Broken," I think Leonid Makarovich should be more restrained this time, because if anything had been solved, it was destroyed in Leonid Makarovich himself. As for Parliament and Parliamentarianism in general, on the contrary, a healthy atmosphere for our future activity was being cemented. And the last. Colleagues from the Communist faction, but it's not that the budgets we receive each year are imperfect. I can agree with you on this, but the thing is, they don't last a year. And we're going to report this year on the implementation of the budget, which will say that about 5 billion are not used for the purpose. It's just a flurry of saying, "used not by purpose," and they're actually stolen. So that's where we're supposed to focus our full attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u29	National MP Vladimir Anishtuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u30	Vladimir Anishtuk, Communist faction, the town of Odessa. Dear colleagues! Given that a parliamentary request addressed to the President of Ukraine could not be approved at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, taking advantage of the opportunity to speak at the plenary meeting, I would like to speak to the generals, the reserve officers and the resignation of the hero city of Odessa to President Kuchma. “We, generals and reserve officers and indignantly resigned the Government’s decision to abolish existing benefits to veterans and replace their so-called targeted assistance. This lawlessness is a grave violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, to which you are a guarantor, will deprive the veterans of the benefits they have earned, will deprive them of their new deprivation and suffering, and will speed up their extinction. And they don't have much to live on. There will be a new number of search engines for targeted assistance to demean the dignity of destitute veterans. We urge you to leave the benefits to veterans, not to traumatize them with such decisions, but to instruct the new Prime Minister, Viktor Yanukovic, to develop a strategy for the return of billions of dollars stolen from the people and the State and located in foreign banks. This will make a real contribution to the fight against poverty in Ukraine. We recall your Decree on the Retirement of Veterans of the Armed Forces since 1 January 2003. Please stop discrimination against war veterans who had been dismissed before 1994. Their pensions are two or three times lower than those of those soldiers who have resigned since 1994 and are now retiring. That's not fair. Frenteviks who shed their blood and then the heavy roads of war, veterans of the Armed Forces, who have served in remote places and in hot spots of the planet, do not deserve this kind of relationship. We ask you to remove this injustice. A similar request is addressed to you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and I am handing over the text to you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and please consider my statement as a deputy request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u31	National Deputy Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u32	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head! People's deputies, voters. In recent times, the Supreme Council has spoken a lot about the problems of small cities, and the problems of small villages and villages, I mean the villages that, with the independence of Ukraine becoming immediately unopposed, although in times Soviets were unique in development, the production structure because they performed an important function for the development of areas, primarily engaged in the well-being of the populace and the improvement of individual sectors of national agriculture and development, unthinkable reforms have led to their decline, the poverty of the inhabitants. Hersonian villages include Brilovka, Mirne, Ascania Nova, Čkalova, and others. As an example, it focuses on the situation in the village of Brilovka in the Zurupina region, a population of about 7,000. During the 1990 ’ s, the village was the center for the production, cultural and social development of the South of Ukraine, and its productive capacities were known in the republics of the former Soviet Union. Today, the population, its people, have forgotten their problems, both in heaven and on earth. Businesses have been bankrupted, work for the working population, which accounts for 40 percent of the total population, and thus for nothing to live for. The only way to survive is to look for jobs in companies that are shrinking every day, either in farmers or in Korean brigades. People go to work on the earth, even though they are not farmers by profession, but builders. and teachers. Unemployment growth can be halted if production increases, and this requires funds that are usually lacking, although labor groups have developed a crisis recovery program. Enterprises, and they're about 20, so far they have some kind of a material and technical base, they're in a geographically comfortable place, they're going through the villages by the railway branch, they're near the North Crimean Canal, they're on the highway. The state owed municipal benefits to budgetary organizations, citizens serving organizations, leading to the blackout of electricity and so on. Water is unstable. There is no heat and language, since three years have passed since the many - story buildings are not burned down, the boiler room, the heat grids are out of order. If not for the individual efforts of the leaders of the village council, other authorities of the district of Zurich, and for the restoration of sociocultural facilities, it would be possible to forget at all that the village exists in life and on the map. That is why the self - control body, war veterans and workers, require young people from the Supreme Council, the government organizationally, to help regenerate production financially, to give confidence to the people of tomorrow. I believe that the government, the district government, should urgently find funds to build a minicot to restore the heat supply by losing all faith and hope of the people. On this point, I would consider it appropriate to refer parliamentary requests to the Cabinet of Ministers. I hope that the life of the barbers will be more systematically interested not only in the officials of the Herson Archlands and the Archduke, but, otherwise, in the ministers of honour, they will find the opportunity to visit and make efforts to include the village in the priority development area, to channel state aid while there is still a basis for production. The former glory of the brilliant has been lost by the state and its inhabitants to restore it. I'm handing over the texts of the citizens' petitions to the Presidency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, time is up. Out of procedure or something? Please, Adam Martinyuk. Well, one minute. Adam Martinyuk raised his hand first. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, let us leave our hall and make a wise conclusion. We voted with you today to consider and vote for the bill today. Of these bills that are to be considered today, and we've included 14 of them, 6 of them, almost 50 percent of them -- bills that have something to do with what's not to be considered anymore. This is about the State Budget for 2002. What State Budget 2002 can we talk about with you one day before the end of this year? That's one moment. The other one. I looked around, and after reviewing these bills, I found that 90 percent of them would not be supported by the faction. With this number of people in the room right now, it's equivalent because none of the votes will be effective. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Carmazin, please contact your head. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think yesterday we worked so hard and productively with you that today we have an opportunity and we should build our work as follows. Now listen to the information we have, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office, and then give you the floor to welcome us to the coming New Year's, and to conclude today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u35	What are we gonna do, "Crazy"? You don't have to? Well, then, let's do it. I'm asking for information right now. Yuri Anatolyovich, come on, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u36	Well, give me two minutes to make a statement!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u37	We're out of time. Well, please, come on, folks! Well, take it from here. Well, I beg you, well, dear colleagues! Well, everyone will be here soon, Yuri Anatolyevich, and everyone will be here soon. Well, I said, if you have a procedure, Yuri Anatolyevich. One minute, please, from procedural questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u38	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. You and I have overcome a crisis that was inspired outside the Supreme Council and which is hiding from those parties that were political outsiders in the elections, including the one with the letter zero. These parties are going to take full control. At present there is a collection of signatures for removal from the position of Speaker of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. It's not our speaker, it's not our Ukraine, it's chosen by the U.S.A. But when it stands up for democratic principles, we will stand up for it. And in this case, I'm saying that the attempt to collect signatures and take the lead now, the head of parliament is an attempt at a coup d'état. And I ask that Parliament return to the 1994 Rules of Procedure, which existed until 2000, with a secret vote on personnel issues. I'm sorry. By secret balloting for the personnel issues that existed. And I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, because now I've been busy with the same questions about the other murders in the city of Odessa hero, I've returned to the hall now, my questions have been voted without me even my vote, and I'm asking you once again to put my questions to the vote. And I sincerely welcome the people of Ukraine with New Year's Eve and our rightful Hare to welcome the New Year and all of you. And I would like to vote in favour of these questions, three questions that are asked only with the expectation of improving the fate of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u39	Turn off the microphone. Well, we vote, we vote, we vote next time. There's no one here to vote. Please. Assadchev, please. I'm asking you, let's keep working, let's not disturb. Valerius Assadchev, please, Slabenko later.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear national MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich I, in principle, agree, indeed, there are many questions on the budget, but there are no deputies. But there is one bill that I would very much ask you to vote on. It's 1239-1, it's related to regression suits for miners. It's just that there's been a mistake in the 2002 budget, and there's a part of the funds that are actually in the Minvalva budget that can be applied to the regression lawsuits of miners, but that doesn't allow an article of the same budget that says that only the social insurance fund should be financed from accidents. It's a real mistake, but it costs over 39 million for miners. I'd like to vote on this one law, it's very social, and on the other hand, we can agree. Please. 1239 and all deputies to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u41	National MP Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u42	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two weeks later I announced in my speech that Friday we have a day when we're on "Virgin." Please remember that we missed one Friday over and over again the question of "Virgin" we say that, in this regard, the MPs who signed up in accordance with the Rules will not be able to speak again in accordance with the requirements of our internal constitution. I would like to stress once again that the Difference that should be considered today is an appropriate distributed draft of the session that we must have in order for it to take place today. Because at least, I think that those speeches by national deputies with problems that are in the districts, they should still be announced and people should have their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, I'm putting to the vote the last sentence of the People's Deputy Slabenko, who wants us to follow the information and also the information of the representatives of the forces, and after the adoption of this law to consider the "Virgin" for an hour, please, Your Honor's colleagues, to identify themselves. [[11:02:16]] For-153 In 153, no decision is taken. Dear colleagues, we can listen to the proposal of the National Deputy Assadchev and vote on this document. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the second reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002 on the repayment of debts to miners, this is number 1239. Please vote in second reading. Tyre One, yes, please vote. [[11:02:59]] For 311 To - 311. Come on, if there's no objection, no? In general, we will vote on it. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this project as a whole as a law. This is 1239-1. Please vote. [[11:03:24]] For 334 The law is passed. I am announcing to the hearing, honourable colleagues, information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office regarding the incident with the National Deputy Wolinz during the meeting of the Bolosiow Local Court of Kiev on December 25, 2002. Please, the minister is sick. When the final information is available, there will be information from the minister. First Deputy Secretary of State, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u44	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! My information on December 25th of this year at the announcement by the Regional Court of Volos on a well-known criminal case is not yet complete. The conclusion is certainly behind an objective investigation. And the minister, on this point, initiated a criminal offence by handing over available materials to the Attorney General's Office. Procedural actions are already under way. The minister’s official inspection by the Ministry is also under way, and more than a hundred persons involved have been interviewed. However, I will not be categorical in the assessment of all the episodes of that day in the courtroom held at Zagreb Film Theatre. I'm only going to stop in some of the predetermined circumstances. I count upon their unbiased perception of the national MPs. It is well known that the trial on the issue of mass unrest in Kiev on March 9, last year, is long - standing and is accompanied not only by polar legal assessments of various parties but also by political coloring. There have been repeated attempts to influence the case, or to break down the proceedings. Foreseeing an increase in tension on the day of the completion of the hearing, the presiding judge asked to strengthen the protection of the parties to the trial and to ensure the protection of the rule of law, as stipulated by the Supreme Council’s law, and that wish was taken into account. On December 25, the trial began at 11 o’clock for 25 minutes. There were about 170 people in the room: trial participants, parents, relatives, and 18 defendants. Of these, 15 were kept in custody. There were also Ukrainian deputies from Ukraine, such as Masters School, Lucenko, Cloud, Lukyanenko, Turkinov, Pavlovsky, Volinec, Taran, Zubov. After the adjournment of the trial, when the verdict was announced with the determination of the penalties for the defendants, the tension in the courtroom was gradually strained, being deliberately aroused by the frequent indignation of the defendants and individuals present. All of this created severe psychological tension, hindered the exercise of justice. At 7:00 p.m., 17 minutes after the sentence was announced, Boyk was the last to call out insults to the judges, claimed the intention of suicide, and, as he demonstrated real readiness, set fire to the newspaper and paper raised to his neck. It was this action that sparked a new surge of outright disrespect for the court, disturbances in the hall, noise, and scandal. The convoy’s militia, as required by the statutes, quickly responded and intervened in the course of events, prevented suicide, extinguished burns, calmed the defendants, but the continuation of the meeting was still under threat. In the face of further complications in the courtroom, ignoring repeated court appeals and requests for police officers to follow orders and to complete the verdicts, lawyers, public defenders, relatives tore the trial, pushed the convoy away, and approached the defendants who were expressly banned. There was a lot of noise and confusion in the hall. In the heat of passions and inadequate emotions present at the trial of citizens of Haysak, a student of the 3rd year of Dragomanova National Teachers' University, threw the chair into the hands of judges and only at the right time seized his hand by a police officer warned of possible injuries and other consequences. Responding to such a harsh display, police officers quickly escorted the wrongdoer out of the hall through a narrow corridor to the exit. In the meantime, their legitimate actions were being hampered by a national MP, Mr. Wolinec. According to explanations to release the detainee, he tried to bypass and outrun the militia, leaped across the chairs along the corridor wall. One of the chairs broke, and Mr. Wolitz fell. This is confirmed by 20 persons surveyed. When he got up, he immediately announced that he had been beaten by the police. All the events recorded in the crowd and in the course of time caused the court to hold back with the threat of a breakup. After a short period of time, this was literally 10 minutes later, the police ordered the room to continue the process. With regard to the trauma of the national deputy, this is shown earlier by a medical worker who had stopped at a movie theater and who had called Michael Wolin’s ambulance for complaints of health problems. Hospital number 17 gave him a diagnosis of chest and forearm bruises, a garden forehead. The medical facility Mr. Wolintz left without hospitalization. I would add that the intervention in the militia, including by the national deputies, also continued outside the conference room. This did not allow for the administration of the wrongdoer, who threw the chair into the hands of the judges and formed the materials. I might point out that police officers have deliberately exacerbated the conflict around the trial by predicting the complexity of the situation. I would ask the national deputies, particularly those involved, to contribute to the establishment of the truth. What's more, on this particular case, we have some complications. At our request to meet in order to clarify the important circumstances without which it is impossible to give a full, objective assessment of events, the national deputy Volinec did not show that desire. As far as I know, that's what happened to the D.A.'s office. And when I'm done, I'll do it again. The final decision, both at the request of the national deputy and at the fact that there was a lack of respect for the court for a qualified investigation. The Ministry is interested in the completeness and objectivity of the investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the information is complete. If you have any questions, please sign up. 10 minutes, please. Please point it on the board. People's MP Løvin, faction of the SDPU, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u46	Please give the word to Nechiporeku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u47	People's deputy to Nechiporak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u48	Vladimir Nechiporuk, Hmelnickin, 194 constituency. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, watching TV and listening to your speech today, I have come to the conclusion as a professional that on the part of both those present in court and national deputies there was a clear water provocation. And thank God the militia didn't use weapons. I want you to tell me what such provocations can lead to from the national MPs in the future? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u49	Thank you. We think the investigation is going to answer these questions, but we think that this was definitely a planned action, that's what we can see from the materials that are already at the disposal of the knowledge and the results of the service check, but I repeat that all of these questions will be answered by the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u50	Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the "Industry and Entrepreneurs" Party of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, knowing you as a human being, you've been working long hours in Crimea and you've put a lot of order there, I'd like to ask you this question. Tell me, please, before you know that there may be such incidents, whether you have informed or your subordinates, who have ensured order there, that they will endure all sorts of provocations. If so, say so. And do you have any information that there was provocation, I don't know where, or on one side, or on the other? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u52	Of course, all those workers who were involved in the protection of public order, as well as the convoy, were instructed. And on the video and in the course of those events, you can see that they acted according to the law. I think those who want to see it can see it, we have videos on that. Well, once again, the investigation will give all the answers to these questions. I've already said that the nature of this action will be established in the course of the investigation and then you can answer all the other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u53	National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. May I have the floor to the representative of the Cloud?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u55	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u56	The cloud, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. General Kornienko, please tell me when you stop lying and slandering and decent people, including decent national MPs. I witnessed these events, and I want to point out that the violation went from the very beginning, when, in advance, the hall was being reorganized into civilian youth workers of the U.S.S.S.A. and your services, which took up almost all the seats and didn't pass into the hall, tried not to miss even the relatives of the defendants. This is the first time. The other one. These defiant, disrespectful ways of carrying out the State Hymn of Ukraine, they did not even stand up. The other one. When the police grabbed the first better young boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u57	Questions, please make them clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u58	That's the question. The boy who was completely innocent and this is dozens of witnesses, and right in front of the audience, he started beating him and his fibers outside the hall, and it was just passing by the Volinz National Deputy, he was trying to stop this prank, and then he was beaten. You're going too far today! Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u59	Please. The question is understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u60	Just like Mr. Nechiporak is lying, who hasn't been in the hall and seen anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u61	The question is clear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u62	I don't think so, Mr. People's Deputy, asking such a question is unethical. I repeat that the investigation will answer these questions. But now you can say, and you can see on the video that this student boy dropped the chair -- it's installed. And the fact that the hall was small, it wasn't our fault, we didn't choose this hall, there were only 150 places. 74 victims, of course, were unable to accommodate all 74 police personnel who were injured who were found to have been injured. That's why this room wasn't enough. As far as beatings are concerned, this was not the case. You can see that on video. We can demonstrate to the people's deputies, it's clear that no one or no one has been beaten there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u63	National MP Razwadowski, Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u64	Dear reporter! Dear Chairman Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I appeal to you and ask that we treat each other with respect and not insult each other. Because those who come to the higher legislature deserve great respect. This is me addressing you, showing you the investigation of who in this case, and I would ask you all to stand by and wait for where the Attorney General has committed a crime and will evaluate all actions. And I have a question to ask you, Mikhailo Alexiyovich, please tell me who specifically resisted to deliver the intruder who tried to throw the chair into the judges and you should name the names from this rostrum, if they are national MPs, then we should know that they are national MPs. If they are other people, so is that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u65	The student’s chair was taken by the policeman’s hand, and the chair did not just fly toward the judges. So happy is the chance that he, this chair, did not fall and fall upon anyone. You can see that very well on the videos that we're ready to show. With regard to those who resisted, this will still have to be established. This will set up an investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u66	National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u67	George Maculenko, 203 district. Please pass the word to your colleague Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u68	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u69	Dear Michael Vasilovich! I have a few questions for you, please note and answer them in detail. The thing is, I was in this court before 5:00 and I only saw part of what was going on, but I felt good about the atmosphere. First. Who gave the order not to let journalists in, including video cameras, into the courtroom? I personally had to push the police lieutenant away in order to comply with the Ukrainian Law on the Right of Journalists to enter the courtroom freely. Your officers did not give this order, and only my intervention helped journalists to get to a court of law that was carefully hidden from society. The second question. Is it according to your instructions that more than 80 M.E.C.C. employees with faces that are no longer on the screen, that disabled people suffered during these clashes, didn't get up while performing the anthem of Ukraine? Question three. Why, once again, all the operational footage, as is the case at all the protests, was not in accordance with the instructions of your department, that is, those who took the shot were not in shape. The instructions require that an operating camera be taken exclusively in the form of police officers. You disguise yourself again as normal free citizens, you mask your people and you violate the laws, and today you want to put people in jail, in this case students. One last question. Can you, from this high rostrum today, as I understand it, claim that no one beat Wolintz, but only the chair of Zagreb? Are you going to take the liberty of claiming that none of the police officers were hitting him on the head and on other parts of the body?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u70	Thank you. As for the order not to release journalists. We didn't give that order. The other one. As far as I'm concerned. I am. Let me answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, please allow me to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u72	As for the employees, you know that when the Hymn is executed in a state institution, when the Hymn is performed, which is officially established, then our employees get up. An asshole like that in a court of law can't be allowed to do that. So the court procedure does not provide for the execution of an anthem. Therefore, claims against our employees are thought to be unnecessary. As far as filming is concerned. All the videos were made by a lot of cameras and a lot of video journalists. You've seen, I think, on television on different channels, a demonstration of these videos. Those who went there were not forbidden to take these pictures. And last of all, with regard to the beating of Wolin, I've already said that 20 men surveyed don't support his beating. The investigation will determine whether this is the case. And then you can answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u73	Oleg Hinsburg, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u74	Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, Gunzburg, 161th District, Communist faction. That's my question. Yesterday and probably tomorrow, the investigators are still working on our stay at the Presidential Administration. And there was a conversation there yesterday. And I'm asking myself a question, and I'm asking the investigator who's doing it. Could it not have been, the reason, could it simply not have been, not been such an incident in the President's Office, or this encounter of law enforcement agencies with these young people? And who is to blame for what it is? Why did the impossible human simply, for example, have to accept us and listen to our suggestions, reasonable suggestions? Could it have been otherwise avoided? And that's my question. You are serving this system of authority today. I'm very sorry for you, honestly, but I respect you as a person to you, but as an organ, I do. Are you satisfied with this system of authority or not? And the second question is, why can't you show the film here? Is that very difficult? For you to be comfortable and for us to be, there was trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u75	Let me start by saying that we're ready to show the videos here. If you make that decision, we're ready to show them now. And secondly, with regard to these situations that you were talking about, the police didn't provoke these situations exactly like the situation that happened the other day. Therefore, my attitude toward power is like that of the Constitution, that is, I respect and obey the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u76	Time is up, please sit down. Sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u78	Have a seat, please. Please be the Deputy General, the Acting One. Replica, Nechiporek, your last name was mentioned, please. I'm out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. And what I mean is, Your Honor, Mr. Ilkovich, if I were you, I'd just come over and apologize for that. I asked, I really wasn't there, I saw a video that was shown on TV, and I listened to the report of the first deputy minister of the interior, and as a professional, I asked a question that I saw. So I didn't mean to offend anyone and I don't want to, I want only one thing, Stepan Ilkovich, in respect of you, your gray hair, I want you to be fair to yourself and to be fair to me and just to the law enforcement authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u80	Thank you. Alexander Frost of procedure, please. Dear colleagues, we are in the process of dealing with the issue. Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! I'm talking to Stepan Ilkovich the Cloud. Don't let him go near Nechiporek, because I know what it'll end up like, it'll end in justice for Nechiporek. That's the first question. But it's out of procedure. I don't think we can limit these answers to 10 minutes. I wanted to speak to Deputy Minister Mikhail Vasilovich Korneyenka: Why can't two years be determined who beat Semenyuk in the head of the national deputy? There are photos, there are cameras, there's order where your officers, the police, were standing, and you can't tell who hit the head! You haven't set it up in two years, and you're clear! You see, traditionally Volintz falls: on one side the blues, on the other side the blues. You see, he brought such a certificate from the hospital that he had a habit or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. Stepan Ilkovich, your line now. Don't call me names, I'm just asking you! About time, I mean. Dear colleagues, there was information from the chairman of the committee. And we agreed that this would be the time. To be exact, 43 minutes. They've all confirmed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a painting like it used to be. I did not read the works of Solzenicina, but I strongly condemn it. That is how Mr. Nechiporuk acted today, who was not in the court, but who was assessing the facts. And I am very sorry and sorry that he is supported by another general, a national MP. I want to. Say again that today, from the beginning to the end, General Kornienko lied, including that they have not yet found witnesses to testify to the beating of Wolin. And I'll tell you why. Because they were only questioning those who were actually beating militiamen. Just as police and S.A.P.A. officers were sent into the hall and people were not released in what was grossly violated by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u84	Thank you. From the Attorney General’s Office, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko It's not a replica. Just the last one. Don't call your name, please, I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u85	Now I'm not going to call the last name so someone doesn't take the replica again. But what I'm going to say is that some MPs turn instead of thinking head and working in law, they decide to decide by force, in the street, inciting people. In the same way, by provoking law enforcement authorities to take adequate action against them. I wanted to call all the national MPs in this report. People, including law enforcement authorities, will be led to you from the way you act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u86	Please, everything! Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u87	Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, in addition to the information I provided yesterday, I report that according to a statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputies at the meeting of the Supreme Council on 26 December of this year on the events that took place on 25 December at the Zagreb Film Theatre, at the request of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the prosecutor of Kiev has completed the investigation. As a result of the survey, the materials collected are contradictory. First of all, Volince has the following bodily damage: chest trauma closed, right chest injury, left shoulder injury. According to Volinec’s telephone report on the performance of the prosecutor of Kiev Steczenka, the reported bodily injuries caused him unknown police officers by punching the chest with his hand. At the same time, the police in question claim that Volin’s injuries were not caused, and other unlawful acts of violence against him were not taken. It is explained that Volintz could have obtained them by falling on a chair. Considering that it is objective to establish the circumstances in which Volinec was injured, perhaps only by means of an investigation, on December 26, this year the prosecution of Kiev has been prosecuted by the prosecutor of Kiev. The investigation is under review by the Attorney General's Office, and we'll report further on the outcome of the investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u88	Please, is there a question? Sign up, 10 minutes. Please give the name list on the board. Gmir's National Deputy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u89	Thank you very much. I understand from your statement that nothing is clear yet. Maybe the Volintz got hit, maybe he fell on a chair, maybe a ceiling fell on it, or a meteorite fell on it. But they're talking about an O.R. shooting. You're looking at it, and yet in the meteor picture, does it fall on Wolinz or does it get hit?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u90	Thank you. The videos we watched show no record of Volinz being beaten. There's no table either, there's only that on the videos that were actually thrown, and the chair is flying. I tried. We questioned Haysak Lubomir-Vasil Zinovich on these questions and he explained that he really dumped the chair, but he did it recklessly because he was pushed behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u91	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u92	Please pass the word to a colleague after the faction of Mr. Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u93	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Dear reporter, I have it. You know, I want to say one thing, first of all, that each of the national MPs has their own experience of relations with law enforcement. I have this experience, too, and including when there were more than three years ago, when the militia beat up two villagers, made them disabled, then they were scared, and only only a matter comes to trial. But the first thing was, "We didn't hit them, and more than that, we wanted to help them get home, take them to Janka to the station, but then they went somewhere to buy a cigarette and beat them up," even though they were beaten in the police department. So I want to ask you, right now, I don't know if the chair has fallen or who these claims are, but based on the fact that if we have this kind of relationship with law enforcement, and usually the first answers are always lies, that's why we have this attitude in both you and other speakers. And today I also think that these first conclusions are false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u95	Is that a question? I'm going to point it out again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u96	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u97	I reiterate that in order to establish the objective circumstances of these events and to break the criminal case and create a task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u98	Please, Weakness, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u99	Sergei Slabenko. I have the next question as to how I got the answers for today's version. There is a chair that has either fallen or fallen upon it and suffered bodily harm. Question one. Are other versions of this subject being worked out? Question two. If they just reported and said that 20 people were questioned. Who are these 20 people? Whether it is the guardians or its constituents, others are present there who have seen the incident. So the main thing is, how far will this tracking group work impartially while performing its professional duties?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. Answer. The criminal case is violated because the research materials are contradictory, and so not one version is worked out, a version is also worked out and could cause bodily harm to a police officer. It also works out that these bodily damage was caused by a fall and a blow to the chair. And also as a result of the physical struggle that arose in this room. The following group, I assure you, has no interest in working in one direction or another, and will therefore be subject to an objective investigation under the control of the Attorney General’s Office. I didn't finish my answer, Your Honor. So in addition, Michael Vasilovich was stressed that 20 people were interviewed who did not support the fact that there was a beating. I want to report that about 50 people have been interviewed. I agree that these are mostly law enforcement personnel surveyed. But there are other citizens surveyed who were in the hall. Medical examiners who explained what Volinec had told them, under which circumstances he was injured. Work on the test is continuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u101	Malinovski National Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear reporter, Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. You know, you went out to this rostrum, I feel sorry for you just being friendly. Excuse me, but you're just lying. It's impossible to be like that. He fell over a chair. He's already lost his mind. Well, you're a professional lawyer, so if you'll excuse me. But I won't ask you a question. The question will be asked by Yuri Lucenko. Please give him your word. Please pass the word Yuri Lucenko. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Lucenko I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u103	Please pass the word Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u104	Your Honor, the Attorney General, I'd like to address you and ask for your sincere answers, you're afraid of nothing at all, and the D.A.P.A. is collecting signatures for the Attorney General's resignation. Even though you tell the National Deputies before you die, I mean political death, tell the National Deputies the truth. The truth is: (a) when the case of the beating of the national deputy Semenyuk is completed. Mr. Smyrnov came to her hospital and apologized for the actions of his subordinates. The question is, When will these subjects be convicted and answer to the law for beating up a national MP? To that we consider any of your words to be contemptible in the rostrum if it doesn't happen. The second question. What punishment is provided for those law enforcement officials who beat national MPs? Please tell this to all of our listeners. Question three. There is information that a judge in the advisory room who has no right to any contact, including a telephone, has called the TV. My question, please, is to consider a parliamentary request and to file a criminal case about the inadequacy of the court's proceedings and, accordingly, the illegality of the court's judgment in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u105	Thank you. In a criminal case, Seminouk was beaten. The trial continues. And that's why. The decision has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u106	I beg of you, fellows of honor! Well, please, calm down! Let's be respectful to each other. I'm asking you to calm down! Let's show that we're educated, civilized people. We will. Billy. I'm not teaching you I'm just asking you! Please! Well, we won't do anything with a scream! Dear colleagues, please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u107	The decision they've applied, the punishment is the prerogative of the court, not the prosecution. I don't have that information about the judge talking to the Ukrainian Security Service. Let's check it out then.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u108	I'll put it on the list. National MP Taran, Teren, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u109	I have literally one minute. I'll pass on the word to Julia Volodymyrni. And I'd just like to ask you a lot. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you. I'll pass on the word, Timoshenko, but I'd like to ask you very much. Well, wait! Get me 10 seconds. I would like to make a full discussion of this question, for among the defeated MPs and Pavlovsky, including me, in the correspondence, it was, and so on. This question is very serious. Julius Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u110	Timoshenko, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u111	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will certainly not be able to say what I have to say in seven seconds. And I'm asking as the leader of the faction, give me a few minutes, a word after the completion of the information and the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u112	National MP, Bondarchuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u113	The Honourable Acting Attorney-General! You may have already pointed out that in the High Council Chamber, we are increasingly considering the beating of the people's deputies. It's a strange situation, of course, actually. While it is understandable that it is caused by the causes of such a global one, let us say, a general one is the continuation of market reforms, the capitalization of our economy, the majority of which feel humiliated, insulted, robbed. Yesterday or the day before, we considered the issue of Valentina Seminouk, which was earlier. Then Eljashkevich, today it's Volynec. I had to go to the town of Slavotic yesterday. It's a typical situation. They don't pay people's wages. It's 8 to 10,000 bracelets to builders in the city of energy "Slavucichatomenerostra". What's the situation? The law is fully on their side, no payment is made. What do the people’s deputies have to do? Help these people block the building. As of 16 January, he plans to wash the railway at Chernobyl. Here's the role of the DA's office, I guess. And these are the situations that are causing these protests that need to be resolved in some way. What can you say on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that, according to the facts where wages are not paid, other human rights violations are allowed, the Attorney General's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office are being investigated and hundreds of criminal cases have been prosecuted for not paying wages, and many of the managers have been convicted. The prosecutor’s office therefore responds to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u115	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee, please. Well, I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear fellow national MPs. Really, it's very bad that every now and then there are events similar to those that happened in Zagreb theater where he was sitting. Funeral, right? - where the Gaussian District Court of Kiev was sitting. And the Supreme Council did the right thing today, listening to information from the heads of law enforcement about these events. But at the same time, agree to those events for two days, and we have too little information to make any conclusions or evaluate today. So I would ask that you have just given a ruling from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the first paragraph is proposed to take to the well-known information of the Minister and the Attorney General, and the second point is to hear this information again in January 2003. So I'd like to ask you to consider this issue between the first and the second paragraphs and add another point: to entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with a committee to look at the film, to give a legal assessment of these events, and I'll be ready with the heads of law enforcement to give you information in the time frame that you're going to set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u117	Yes, please, have a seat. Yes, there is an insistence. I think it's best not to get worse, like, 10 minutes to talk about it. Please. Please, who wants to take the floor? Ten minutes. Yes, Timoshenko, please. Well, Timoshenko! I told you. Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u118	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear friends! In fact, I think people who listen to the radio again don't understand what we're even discussing. And we're debating that a few days ago, 15 young boys who took part in public protests who took part in a simple demonstration among tens of thousands of other people were taken out of the crowd on March 9, 2000 and, as an example, not to go to a demonstration, they were held for two years without a trial in custody. Yesterday there was a disgraceful court that gave these boys four or five years in prison for being Ukrainian citizens. These are the people who, at the commission of Kuchma and Medvedchuk, are deprived of their lives. They are the best young people of our nation will rot in prisons for 4-5 years because they found courage in them and went out to the square to say "No Kuchmi!" And his surroundings. In addition, when this court was held, of course, it was a court of law, of course, these judges were sellers, these judges who were only on the telephone, otherwise they would not have been able to give these boys four or five years in prison. And when the Volintz National MP was self-incinerating one of these guys behind bars, if he was protecting him, then this whole bunch of re-dressed police came at Volintz, and now Wolintz is in the hospital, and he's now. They're operating at this moment because they're damaged by internal organs, and they've now caused the person to be on the operating table. And imagine inviting more than two hundred deputies, voting that the minister of the interior should be here in the rostrum, and giving answers, but the deputy secretary of the secretary came. I want to ask the deputies if we're ready to go to the Supreme Council next time to answer for these events, they're sending a cleaning lady who won't even know what to tell the deputies. And that's why we, with our mouths there, one of the members of the Surkis-Medvedchuk faction, who, by the way, is a militiaman, justifying these actions as national deputies, we set an example of continuing to abuse people and people's deputies in Ukraine. I want to urge you once again to give the strictest assessment of these activities of our security agencies, from whom they protect us, they protect themselves from a perfectly clear responsibility. And I'm asking us to make a decision today. They were given an appointment by January 15th, and on January 15, a cleaning lady from the Ministry of Defense would come here, which is illegal, and the Minister of Defense, the Attorney General, would come and give a clear explanation of what was going on in the country. And I want us to put ourselves in the shoes of those parents who raised the real patriots of Ukraine, and now we see the indifference of the MPs that their children have been thrown for playing for absolutely no reason. I also ask that you listen to Deputy Wolinz as a witness, not just your representatives of the security agencies, the force structures that 20 witnesses have acquired. How did you get so much? And why was there to change these people and keep them in the courtroom? I'm asking the people's deputies. We're going to be collecting signatures, calling the Supreme Court to just review these records, how brutally the court behaved. The boys were convicted under the old criminal code. The secret of the counseling room was broken. The defense witnesses were completely dismissed, and no witness to the defense was heard, but only representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were heard as witnesses to the events of March 9. I ask not to be indifferent and to stand up for once those people who are patriots of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u119	The word is given to Mr. Aleksandro Aleksandrovitch. Please follow the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u120	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners, if the broadcast is coming. We are witnessing the agony of a police regime that relies solely on law enforcement structures, on militia structures, and thus wants to protect itself. Everyone seems to have forgotten something today. On March 9, thousands of people came to the walls of the President's Administration, including young people who protested the murder of George Gongadze. We're not talking about it, they came to the room where the order was made for the murder of George Gongadze. Therefore, in the light of this situation, it is necessary to appreciate what is happening later. Note how the police determine the guilt of those who are fighting for the truth. But I don't need police and operational footage, I saw grenades being thrown under the tent, under the tent where the socialists were standing just recently in October. And to go through the boundaries of the shield-bearers, you had to rip off my hands, and I, knowing in my face, wasn't missed by the senior officers because, you see, there was such an instruction. Today, a system has been set up to destroy political opponents of the regime, including national MPs. And as long as those who break the law don't sit on the bench of the defendants, we'll have such a perversion and we'll be created, we'll be strengthened by a rotten police state. As national deputies, we must fight against this, for otherwise there is no prospect for our people. And that's why we have to make changes in the system of power and personal and content, within the functions of one or the other structures. I support Julia Timoshenko’s proposal in this regard, for we should certainly put a dot in this story, but put those guilty of breaking the law in line with the law. You can't take any more of this when you're looking at just operational images of people who are in civilian form, and I don't know where they're from, who they're representing at all the meetings, at the rally, at the protest, they're taking pictures, and then they're making conclusions, and that's what illegal operations think. And then, as the original, precise conversation in the President's office is written, that's not what you think, because, you see, there was no authorization from the Attorney General's Office for that. I think we all understand what this is about. And I'd advise you not to name your last name. In order for an MP to be guided by his own mind rather than speak to the order, he needs to get out of the faction of the SDPU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u121	The word is given to the school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u122	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I really would also like to point out the sequence of processes that have taken place. We're looking, we've heard from a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In fact, I would like to point out to the Governing Council that these are individuals of a different level so that we, the national MPs, can listen to them as representatives of the Ministry. We invited the first people here, and they have to come here. But let's go back to the sequence of events. First of all, why was the deputy Wolintz beaten up, why did this happen? Because there was a court in Zagreb theater that was unfair from the start, disgraced by its quality and by a fully fabricated accusation. And Deputy Volintz has heard and listened from the very beginning. All of this was heard and listened to by other national deputies. And that's why I think that more national MPs don't come to these courts, and he's been beaten. He didn't fall from any chairs, I saw it with my own eyes. I saw for myself what was going on, and I can bear witness to the matter. Next. These boys were put on such long and totally baseless terms to intimidate young people before the next March 9th action, which is due to take place next year. This was done in order for young people to remember before going to action that they could be arrested, imprisoned, and sentenced to an unjust trial. By a court that violates everyone’s right to protection. First, it violates the secret of the counseling room, violates all possible and impossible standards of the present, even this shameful legislation. And I'm addressing everyone here. I realize that the most interesting thing is who's staying in this room right now, but I'm talking to them. What we're going to miss this time, and the next one doesn't know who it's going to be, is it going to be some x faction of Yulia Timoshenko's block, or it's going to be someone from the faction of the SDPU (o), where the cataclysm of the D.A. and today's Department of Internal Affairs is going to go through. We know that injustice breeds injustice, injustice in relation to UNA boys will create injustice in relation to people from other political parties and factions. And tomorrow, when you come out of this rostrum, we will also be as indifferent as you are now, listening to what is happening to us, to our brothers, to our brothers. I emphasize that if we miss this time and on January 15 we will not hear a clear statement by Minister Smyrnov and Prosecutor Pisconov, such cases will become a rule, such cases will be permanent. And if we don't save democracy, save justice this time, it will never exist again in this state. I appeal to everyone here, as a father, as a brother, if your children were completely unjustifiably sentenced to such terms, only for the right to protest, just for the exercise of constitutional rights, how would you feel? Let's look at this situation from this point of view. I appeal to your wisdom, to our long - suffering, and I believe that justice will be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! You've been handed over the draft of Decree 2589. I'm voting to include this draft decree in the agenda. I'll put it to a vote. [[11:56:03]] For-200 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the day-to-day draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2589. [[11:56:32]] For 212 The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, 13 numbers, let's ask this question, and let's see, there will be people in the room. Well, come on. Once again, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council regulation of Ukraine 2589. [[11:57:16]] For 218. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to greet each other now. I would ask you to. Vladimir Yavorowski wanted to speak on this occasion. Please. Get ready, Skinny. Weakly wanted to say his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u124	Dear Society, distinguished national MPs, dear voters who voted for those who are sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament today. We've just touched on a very painful subject, and I very much want you, our constituents, to understand us correctly. We're talking about protecting national MPs from the barbarity of what we have. But don't think we're just talking about national MPs. We want you to understand that if national MPs are being beaten, we are well aware of what is happening to you, to the electorate. But let me move on to a slightly different note today, because today is the last working day of the Ukrainian Parliament. The New Year and Christmas are all in our faces. By the way, the whole world is celebrating Christmas. Because of this mood, we really want him to go across Ukraine today. I want you to understand that the Ukrainian Parliament has been through a difficult moment of crisis and today, thanks to the smart people, thanks to the conscientious people in Parliament, we are working today and, you see, yesterday how many laws have been passed and today we have discussed painful issues. I very much want every Ukrainian, every citizen who lives on our earth, to remember that we belong to a very ancient, intelligent, very patient people — the Ukrainian people. Allow me, on behalf of the National Deputies, on behalf of the Ukrainian Intelligence, on behalf of the Association of Writers, to pour all our Ukraine out of these high Chinese cave hills with grain, wheat and so that this grain will fall on every Ukrainian head and bring you 2,000 and three great joys next year. Good luck in every Ukrainian home! May God protect our Ukraine, and may good Ukrainian fate constantly smile over it! With the New Year and with Christmas Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u125	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, with a motive, please. Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u127	Don't run away, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u128	It's hard to say at the beginning of such a celebration, but, dear fellows, I ask you to stay for one minute in the hall, I want to address you. Today, there is one question that must be voted on today. What are we talking about? I'm explaining. This is draft Decree No. 2452. It's about, you know, paying the prisoners of concentration camps and the so-called ost-arbiters. Children under the age of 12 were found outside the payout initiative as well as workers. Two months ago there was a round table of public organizations representing these people, and they asked the German government to restore justice and move away from double standards, and they asked that this decision and the round table resolution be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. I very much ask that today we announce this document in order to allow Vladimir Mikhailovich to sign it and turn to the German side.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u129	Peter Stepanovich, we will vote on it. I'm looking at the computer. Yes, National Deputy Slabenko, did you insist on your word? Will you be performing? Turn on the microphone of the national MP Slabenko. Just very briefly, I ask that I be able to say a few words before the New Year's National Deputies. Come on, quickly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u130	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, I will be moved by what is happening in our country in this session room. Today we raised questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u131	I ask you not to depart from everything, but dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u132	People's MP, his beating. The same is true of the rights of the people’s deputies that are constantly being violated when we work with the various authorities of the State. I'll give you an example, that's the question that came up with me in constituency number 19 in Novovolinsk. In April, 99th year, the only mine to be built there began to be built today. This shaft is more than 55 percent ready. But the state of funding gives us reason for sad reflection today. Well, at least when the electoral campaign took place, we were very often visited in Volin by various executive branch representatives who promised that this mine would be built, that the funds to be disbursed would come to the Volinsky area on this mine. Of the 25 million Reduced funding to $12 million. Of the 12 million The state of affairs has been allocated 7.5 million dollars today. It's a mine that builds and works underground. People who work there today do not have paid wages before the New Year. I would like to point out that in December-month, I went directly to the newly elected government that promised me at least 1 million. The repayment of the debt on salary payments will come into the area of this mine. That money didn't come. I would like to refer to the government today, please note that in addition to the protected articles, perhaps there are other articles today that are unprotected. But people want to celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u133	To fulfill your mission, let's do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u134	Vladimir Mikhailovich! You set up a mission on December 13th. Believe me, after December 13, I called back several times to see how your assignment was done. Regrettably, it is carried out in the same way as the requests made by national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-27-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! They insist that I make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Act on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies, Master of Vladimir Jaković and Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich into the Ukrainian region's deputy faction. Dear National Deputies! In 2002, the Supreme Council, may I have a word, please. I'm asking for your attention. In 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine held its 4th vocation, which began its work on May 14, 2002, served in plenary mode for 67 days. During this time, 98 morning and evening plenary meetings were held to address more than 500 issues of order. In just over a year's time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision on 403 bills, of which 145 have been passed or confirmed as a whole. Another 77 bills were adopted as a basis for their preparation for the second reading. The vast majority of adopted laws, or 98, are in force, 13 of them in a new or updated edition. Of the 38 bills designated by the President of Ukraine for immediate consideration, 28 have been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and have been approved as a whole as laws of Ukraine 10, another 6 aimed at preparing for second reading. Most of the bills under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are prepared by the Committees on Finance and Banking - 60, on economic policy, governance of the national economy, property and investment - 36, on social policy and work - 32. During the second session, whose work has not yet been completed, I would like to stress the adoption of 109 laws, with down 49 projects initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 34 initiated by the Ukrainian National Deputies, 25 by the President of Ukraine, 1 by the National Bank, approved the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003 and the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003. My fellow Members, I hope that you will support me in the fact that despite the complexity and political turmoil that we had in Parliament, Parliament is effective, Parliament is consolidated, Parliament is constructive and Parliament is responsible. The main thing that we have is that we have Parliamentaryism. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome all of you, your families, and, on your behalf, the entire Ukrainian people with the New Year that we will soon meet with the Christmas of Christ! To wish all of us 2003 was so much better than 2002 that we finally felt confident that we would be better off living, so that we could be calmer than our children, grandchildren, than our offspring, so that we could all have better health! I wish you all happiness, prosperity, all the best, what every average person desires! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on January 14. But I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that on Wednesday, December 25, we decided to postpone and hold parliamentary hearings to meet the requirements of environmental legislation on Monday, January 13. They will be held at 15 hours in the Plenary Hall. Please take part. Thank you. I'm a good world.
