ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. May I have your attention, please? Please register. A total of 401 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! As a result of consultations and negotiations by the leaders of the six political MP factions, two draft decrees were introduced under registration numbers 1104-1 and 1104-2 on the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us consult on the procedure for dealing with the matter. The resolution on the procedure for dealing with this issue, which we have approved with you, provides time for answers to questions and for the submission of these packets of candidates for election to management positions. The interim Presidency had been asked to simplify the procedure and immediately proceed to the voting procedure, because in the first package, Lithuania's Vladimir Mikhajlovich was proposed as Head of the Supreme Council, and in the second, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, who had already answered the questions, and we had the opportunity to get to know the position of the political factions that were putting them up. If the MPs insist on carrying out this procedure, we can determine how to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, sign up for the speech. Light up, please. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Borschevski. Get ready for Kirilchuku. We'll probably take five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please give the floor to the deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u3	Turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! There is such an offer. If the deputies have questions about the candidates for the position of Head of the Supreme Council, sign up and ask these questions. If not, the voting process can already be proceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Kirilchuk. Get ready, Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u7	Turn on the microphone of Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Dear Chairman! I wanted to ask you this question. In the morning, we were given another package, where the Supreme Council of Ukraine was appointed as the Immortal, the First Deputy Vasiliev, and I no longer remember the third. Teryohin is the author of this package. Where'd that package go?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u9	To the extent that the interim Presidency was informed, the package that brought the national deputy of Ukraine, Teryohin, was recalled by the national deputy of Ukraine, Teryohin. So there are now two draft regulations that we will now consider. The word is given to the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Pehoti. Get ready for the Machineman.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. It's the only Ukrainian faction. Party of regions. I wanted to start by saying thank you to the Shahtar team, who won and showed us what it means when people want to win. [[Applause]] And second of all, what I'd like to say is we need to take an example of them and not push things forward, because we've already pulled it out in the morning, go directly to the vote. And let's make this vote work today, so we can show everyone that we're capable of doing that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] Dear colleagues! In three districts of Ukraine, the election of Ukrainian national deputies is now under way. And it goes exactly according to the same law that we choose to do is respect for the law, respect for the rules of the game. If our previous colleagues, who were running for the Supreme Council and its deputies, were chosen by one decision, what, should we now change the procedure and place them in a very unequal situation with their predecessors? That's not right. So I propose that we stick to our decision and get on with it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u13	Thank you. The word is given to the national MP Melniczuk. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! We know why there were no projects at the morning plenary. But to remove the suspicion that you are presiding after a lunch break, there is a proposal for each candidate to go to the rostrum. If he has no questions, please take a seat in the hall. And one more thing. There is a request to comply with the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u15	The word is given to the national deputy Droguncs. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. First of all, I want to support Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews' proposal. And secondly, I appeal to the faction leaders. They don't work on weekends, and once we get to work, they start working, and we don't know what to do, we go around the Supreme Council house. Next time, please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u17	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! I and many of the national deputies in this room know that an excess is allowed to distribute the corresponding color ballots. And these ballots are traded by intermediaries. They're offering money to replace a protected ballot with an unprotected one. I appeal to the Bureau and to the Counting Commission to order and ensure that the ballot papers are protected so that no idiot who trades in the temple can make a so-called effective vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u19	Thank you. The time spent asking questions was over. I propose that I give the floor to the head of the Temporary Counting Commission for explanations, for answers and information on the further work of the Temporary Counting Commission. The word is given to the national deputy Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Mishura.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u20	The head of the interim Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. I want to put any charges against the temporary reckoning commission that if there's an excess of ballot papers, they're sold. The point is that the Counting Commission is represented by all the factions that are in Parliament today. That's the first one. The other one. Indeed, we now have 447 deputies. It prints 450, sometimes 456 ballots. This depends on how the computer worked. All of these ballots in the presence of all members of the provisional Counting Commission are carefully listed and the remainder of the ballot papers are destroyed, which is the subject of an act. According to the Rules, the Counting Commission is working in a public and public manner. If there are any suspicions, someone wants to see how we work, please go to the room where we work from the very beginning of the vote to the very end. And I personally invite the Honourable Deputy of Belarus to the Temporary Committee of Counties. Next. If none of the candidates who are included in the packets are withdrawing their candidatures, then to speed up the process, we could immediately prepare two sets of ballots so that we don't have a big break, and vote first on one package, and then on the second packet, as it was last time. If the vote doesn't take place, we're also doing an act of listing all the ballots and just destroying them. [[Last time we had one of those.]] And no one has any suspicions. So I'd like to make an ad for the Provisional Committee of the Counting Commission. If no one takes off their candidacy, we can start preparing ballot papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u21	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. To do this, we need to allow the initiators to make these draft regulations. I've been informed from the "One Ukraine" faction that the National Deputy Tihypco will be speaking on this matter. If he is in the hall, please turn on the microphone of the National Deputy Tihypak to inform the National MPs. If there are no other proposals and none of the candidates are withdrawing, we can move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u22	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Lord Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! By coordinating its position with the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the "One Ukraine" faction has held the widest possible negotiations with all the political blocs represented today in the Supreme Council. [[united]] During these negotiations, we tried to be as flexible as possible, as compromising as possible. Regrettably, all of these consultations proved to be ineffective in terms of the creation of most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't want to comment on these events, we're all equal in rights, and we all have the right to make decisions. However, to some of the results, I think we did. We realized that there are no serious differences in strategic issues. We are practically looking at the strategy of economic, social and political reform, and we will also work on the strategy of political reform. There's a tactic between us. Unfortunately, a tactic that is dictated by political events that will take place soon in Ukraine. On the basis of this vision, we today, together with the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, propose to select the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilyeva Hennadija Andriyovich, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zinchenka Aleksandra Aleksijovich. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u23	Thank you, Sergey Leonidovich. The second draft of the decree, we advised, there is no point in presenting it because it was presented last week, and Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko does not insist that it be given a word for it. So, honourable national deputies, if we support the process of dealing with the issue, and last time we didn't ask those who are being repeatedly proposed to the presidency of the Supreme Council, I'm giving the floor to the head of the interim Counting Commission to inform them how much time they need to prepare, and we're going to make a decision on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! I ask the members of the Counting Commission to gather where we work. We need 40 minutes to prepare the ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u25	Thank you. On chairman's rights, I'm calling a 40-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u26	Invite everyone to the sitting room. Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the head of the interim People’s Commissioner, Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! First of all, let me apologize on behalf of the Counting Commission. The point is, in 40 minutes, we are unable to prepare the ballot papers, so the Counting Commission has decided to spend no less than an hour preparing the ballots. That's the first one. The other one. Voting will be carried out by ballots of this color. Three candidatures were introduced: Litvina Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vasilyeva Hennadija Andriyovich, and Xinchenka Alexander Alexiyovich. With regard to the voting order. The vote begins and the ballots begin at the tables after the head of the Counting Commission announces the voting table. The same will be true after the vote has ended. The vote takes 45 minutes. 15, 10 and 5 minutes before the end of the vote, there will be radio announcements: 15 minutes left; 10 minutes left; 5 minutes left. After the head of the Counting Commission at the table makes the announcement "vote complete," the opening where the ballots go down is sealed. [[That's what the commission gave me.]] After that, no ballot will be accepted. The commission made that decision. And finally one more. Ballot papers will only be issued at the desks for the presentation of a parliamentary certificate. The point is that not all deputies are familiar with the face, and we have had two cases where ballot papers have been issued to other national deputies for the presentation of certificates of missing deputies. We have the results of today’s registration, we have a list of those who are missing, who are on leave, who are sick. True, we see that some of the hospitals are being brought in, some of them are not on board. Right after the vote, we'll do a copy of the lists of those deputies who took the ballots to clean up the controls so there's no suspicion. Understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u28	Any questions to the head of the Counting Commission? People's MP Lucenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u29	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] The Honourable Head of the Counting Commission, can you explain why the speaker candidate refuses to answer the question of the MPs, and can this not be a basis for the court to reverse the voting procedure that has been followed by violations of our decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u30	I thank you for asking, but it does not apply to the competence of the Counting Commission. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, the Counting Commission organises the vote, determines its order, time, place. The content of the vote, the procedure for preparing for the balloting of the packets, and so forth, it's none of our business, I'm sorry. So now it's 17 hours 29 minutes. I think I'll come to the tables in a minute, make an announcement. So at 17 o'clock, we start voting for 30 minutes. We're voting for 45 minutes, which is 18 hours 15 minutes, and we're closing the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u31	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. We'll assume that we've found out. We're not gonna waste time. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u32	I'd like to invite the deputies to the sitting room. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats and prepare to listen to the information of the provisional Committee of Counties. May I have your attention, please? The statement is given to the head of the interim Counting Commission to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u33	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to introduce you to the minutes of the meeting of the Provisional Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 28, 2002. Present: Head of the Temporary Mišur Counting Commission, Deputy Head of the Temporary Kafari Counting Commission, Secretary of the Temporary Fomenko Counting Commission, and all members of the Commission except Carmazin, who was absent. They heard about the conclusion of the secret vote on the election of the Head, the First Deputy Head, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot for the secret ballot on the election of Head, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included the nominations: Litvina Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vasilyeva Hennadija Andriyovich, Zinchenka Alexander Alexiyovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the interim Counting Commission established: The number of Ukrainian national deputies whose credentials are recognized is 447; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 309; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 226; There are no invalid ballots; 11 papers of a different colour have been detected than ballot papers. For a package composed of Litwin Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, Zinchenko Alexander Aleksyyevich, there were 226 votes cast. [[Applause]] In accordance with part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and chapters 3.7 and 4. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to consider the elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania Vladimir Mihajlovich, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zinchenka Aleksandra Alexiyyovich. Of the 21 members of the commission, the protocol was signed by 16, not signed by 5. Thank you for your attention. I've got everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u34	Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Are there anyone who would like to ask a question to the head of the Temporal Cumulative? Turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Redonia.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u35	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Sir, your head! It's obvious that the result is such a pitiful, minimal one that all of those forceful, administrative methods that were applied in relation to the deputies who were forced to vote in favour of Lithuania did not work so hard to produce the result of the Bank's Street 237 votes and more. I'd like to ask you as Head of the Counting Commission: why don't you tell me why these five national deputies, members of the commission, didn't sign the protocol for what reasons? [[B in m in s a l in]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u36	Let me answer, please. We didn't ask why the MPs didn't sign the Bureau's protocol. If necessary, we will gather the Counting Commission and ask them to do so. No one expressed personal thoughts either. They just didn't sign it, that's all. This is provided for.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u37	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy. Valery Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u38	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear National Deputies! The "One Ukraine" faction is satisfied with the result of the vote. I think we should welcome the chosen Head, and we need him to take the place he should occupy. Please support us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u39	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. We'll do it now. They are still eager to ask questions. Let's put it this way: two questions -- and we'll work on it. Frost Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u40	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues to the only Ukraine faction! I'd like to ask you why you're so excited. Let's go back to the situation in a few months, see how you'll react to certain steps. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you, Valery Dmitrovich, I take it, are fully convinced that the vote has taken place in accordance with the Rules, that there have been no violations, and the Commission guarantees that this is what you said it is, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u41	Yes. Before that, we conducted a special survey of the members of our Digital Commission, who worked at tables, who worked at the urn, who claimed that it was certain that the people who showed the card had taken the ballots. We had doubts about the deputy of Leščinski. You must have heard that I made an announcement. The deputy of Leščinski came to see me and showed me his identification. So I was able to identify his person. All members of the Counting Commission assured us that there were no violations or allegations. I can report that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u42	Thank you. Please, one last question. The Turkinov People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u43	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! It's not just 226 votes, it's a successful vote. This is actually the formation of the majority in the Supreme Council. At Yulia Timoshenko’s 23 national deputies, two of them did not take part in the vote. I have 21 ballots on my hands. I would also ask the heads of the other factions to report on voting because there is no such number of deputies in the Social Democrats and in the One Ukraine that we know the composition of the new majority who took responsibility for the situation in Parliament today. [[United]] I ask you very much, Your Honor, right after our meeting, to report to the press.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u44	Thank you. Turn off the microphone, please. Thank you, Valery Dmitrievich, please sit down. Alexander Valentinovich, I would advise you to exercise your right more. After all, you have proposed a draft decree on secret ballots, so use this right and vote. Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the interim Presidency, I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation, for having passed this political test with dignity and for choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to add to what the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, has said in Hersson, which is only 447 national deputies. We can responsibly say that there is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me welcome the elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Litvin Vladimir Mihajlovich, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Vasilyev Hennadija Andriyovich, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Xinchenk Alexander Alexiyovich, to wish them success and fruitful cooperation, to be guided by the Constitution, Ukraine's legislation and to address the issues before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take their legal places. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-28-m1.u45	Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear National Deputies! I offer my sincere thanks to all of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, those who have supported me all these days, giving up even part of their political plans, part of their sovereignty, and demonstrating their command position. I offer my sincere thanks to those national deputies who spoke out of critical or extreme positions about me. I will take full account of the positive and negative lessons that I will take into account, based on the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council. Convinced that now, at this time, neither the pathetic sermons nor the prophecies nor the general declarations are needed to increase the circle of their adherents. Clearly, reaching out to everyone can only be a practical task that is needed today and will be needed tomorrow. The first and main task I see is to organize the work of the Supreme Council on the basis of such a fundamental position: that today's Parliament will depend on the vector and the content of the country's development, the fate of the people for at least 15 years. We need to get on the road more worthy, more humane, to fill the term "quality of life -- quality of the state" with appropriate popular and popular content. In doing so, I think it is necessary to stress that we must simply create conditions not only to improve our living conditions but also to improve and improve ourselves. Then the Head of the Supreme Council is called and will do everything possible to ensure that the Supreme Council fully meets its mandate -- to be the supreme legislative body of Ukraine, to determine the principles of the internal and foreign policy of a state with broad control functions. The second, no less important task is to consolidate the political, regional, position, intuition of Ukrainian society and politics, which are the most comprehensive and explicit reflections of national MPs, factions and groups, to direct them to the sole thrust of national and national policies. I'm sure we can do it that way. Thank you again. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! The agenda for today’s session is exhausted. Let me call today's session closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council will begin its work at 10 a.m. At nine o'clock, I'd like the faction leaders to meet in the negotiating room.
