ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:01:42]] Registered -328 There are 328 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Svidenka Mikoli Mikolaiovich. Let us greet him, wish him success and health. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules on Friday, we discuss the order of the day’s session. You have a list of questions to consider. Dear colleagues, the Rules today do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, but since we are working in the districts next week, you might want to consider the questions that have come if you agree to do so. Is there no objection? Let me then announce the requests for MPs. Requests were received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Anatolia Matvienka, Vasil Onopenek, Alexander Turkinov to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the election of the city of Kirovograd and the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies on March 31st of this year in the one-seat constituency number 99. Please vote in favour of this request. Please make up your mind. [[10:03:28]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Deputies: Anatoly of Rahansky and other National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in view of ignoring the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the National Economy. Please vote in favour of this request. [[10:04:04:04]] For 208 Decision taken. The branch of the Head of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the absence of a proper response by the Attorney General to a parliamentary appeal regarding the illegal activity of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Houses Management. Please vote. [[10:04:41]] For-94 Decision taken. A decision has been made. Anatolia Matvienka, Vasil Onopenka, Aleksandra Turkinova to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the election of the city's city head and the election of Ukraine's national deputies on March 31, 2002, in the one-man election district number 99. People's deputies would like to know about this question. [[10:05:24]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Peter Simonnka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfactory review by the Ministry of Appeal of Workers of the Ulyssian Sugar Plant of the Kyrovograd Region and National Deputies of Ukraine regarding the financial abuse by officials of the enterprise and the criminal destruction of its basic assets. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:06:07]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, according to the schedule of meetings for the week, are being presented today to the Supreme Council for its consideration of the 2001 report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting. The Committee proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. Listen, dear fellows. Report by the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on the issue of television and radio broadcasting, Holod Boris Ivanovich, in 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 15 minutes. A report from the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information - Tomenka Mikoli Volodymirovich - in 15 minutes. Answers are also within 15 minutes. A report by the author of the 2001 Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting - registration number 1185 - national deputy Jovtak Evgen Dmitrovich - in 5 minutes. From the factions and the performances of the national MPs. From the factions to five minutes. People's deputies' speeches, three minutes to discuss. Take about two hours to consider the matter. Is there no objection? Is there no need to vote? Dear colleagues, we could have a meeting without interruption until 12 o'clock. Then listen to "Variance," which is why I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies, and finish our work, considering that next week you're working in the districts, and considering that we're the Trinitarians before the holidays. Is there no objection? None. I mean, the report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio for 2001 is given to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with article 31 of the Ukrainian National Council Act, the 2001 annual report was submitted to the Supreme Council and to the President at the beginning of November last year. It was then discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of the Supreme Council and recommended for discussion by the Supreme Council. The comments and suggestions that came to the report from the President of Ukraine and the profile committee were taken into account in the final edition of the 2001 annual report and distributed at the end of that year in the session hall to the national deputies. Today, however, after six months of our annual report, there has been a fundamentally new situation both in society and in the work of the National Council itself. There are 831 radio organizations registered in Ukraine today. However, 114 of them — 15 percent — do not work at all, but 378, or nearly 60 percent of them are work - related. So the first conclusion is that most of the radio companies in Ukraine are neither financially nor technically nor creatively capable of delivering quality speech in Ukraine. There is another indicator to support this conclusion. The annual budget for the advertising market in Ukraine is estimated to be about $50 million in the United States. Of these, almost 90 percent are national speakers, such as Inter, Studio 1+1 and National Television, Ukraine, and major online speakers: New Channel, ICTTV, STB. As for others, over 700 radio organizations, each receives between 30 and 35,000 dollars a year from advertising costs. Can such funds be used to maintain a television company, prepare its own quality software product, and upgrade its technology base? The answer is obvious. And the National Council directly states that in Ukraine there is no possibility of fully functioning 700 - 800 television companies. Thus, the National Council took a course in the design of television information space by concentrating large languages on public distribution channels. And the sum total of the two-year work of today's National Council in Ukraine is actually 6-7 national speakers, and at the same time there is a place in the state's information space for self-sufficient, creative, financial and technical relations with local companies. But their licensing must take place in fair competition between candidates on the air. Over two and a half thousand applications from candidates were submitted in 8 contests on 661 channels and radio frequencies. In total, more than 300 licenses have been issued for today. And over here we've come to, let's say, a crisis situation that has recently been around the licensing process and it's a number of lawsuits of dissatisfied licensing results. Well, it's understandable that if there's a real opportunity for 2.5 thousand applicants to issue only up to 500 licenses, of course two thousand other applicants remain dissatisfied. In addition, there are other circumstances. The previous National Council component on nearly 300 channels and radio frequencies issued licenses to two or three radio companies immediately, creating chaos in the language, blocked the development of channels in general. Today, we are guided by the principle that one channel is one language. And for that reason, I have to say that we've received support from the last meeting of the Supreme Council, and we've repeatedly talked about this and followed this principle. But that's about half of what's reducing the space for the license maneuver as a whole. And it also creates dissatisfaction for those who have not chosen to win the competition and to appeal to the court accordingly. Today we are telling all the directors of the radio company, owners, founders that if five years ago, six years ago, there was a license to speak to a television company or some other radio company, then in these five to six years it was necessary to show in Ukraine that the television company was able to prepare the program properly, technical security, personnel security to speak today in Ukraine according to the current legislation that solves these problems. An analysis of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Regulations and the National Council shows that they have an exclusive list of fourteen situations where cases related to the activities of radio organizations or decisions of the National Council may be dealt with in courts. As we can see, legislation lists all such cases in detail. Thus, they do not provide for the rights of judicial appeals against the decisions of the National Council to determine the winner of the licence competition. So the prosecutions of television organizations to the National Council for the results of licensing are not provided for by legislation. Such actions can therefore be viewed as an attempt to pressure the National Council in today’s conditions. By the way, we have studied the experience of a number of foreign regulatory bodies similar to the National Council. Thus, the legislation of any country does not allow for judicial interference in the activities of a regulatory body that is likened to the highest national institutions in the country. The impact and effectiveness of European regulators is primarily ensured by the existence of perfect legislation, which gives the regulatory authority sufficient weight to control the activities of national television and radio companies. That's why, on the occasion of this report to the Supreme Council, I am addressing you, honourable national MPs, with a request for the substantial improvement of our national legislation in the information field. In our view, fundamental reform is primarily subject to the Information Laws; TV, radio talk; the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk; advertising; copyright and adjacent rights. Because these legislative acts were adopted five, seven, or ten years ago, to a large extent no longer correspond to the realities of the present. It's not about cosmetics, as we're saying, repairing them, replacing individual phrases, sentences, or regulations, which often leads to even more chaos in the legislative field, but about radical changes in them in accordance with, inter alia, European legislation in this area. I'm not talking about the urgent need for fast adoption of cable television laws, social morality, which would put, in particular, a reliable obsession with horrors, violence, pornography on television. In summary, a balanced Ukrainian Codex of Information will be required. And another problem is protecting the nation's information space. Again, it's a multifaceted problem. One side of it is the ability of our country to bring its state policy to its citizens and the world community, and it's getting harder and harder to do it. The old, primitive technology, which is primarily equipped with state-owned television organizations, a radio park and a 80-per-cent RRT concert's radio and radio lines, is not in line with the requirements today. Of the 16.2 million radio stations that worked in Ukraine 10 years ago, less than half remained. One of the most powerful radio transmissions in the former Soviet Union is the lack of funding. Ukraine will not be able to make it on its own satellite TV, so the voice of our country is not heard today and in the world. But the voices of our neighbors are becoming more and more receptive in our native space. From the east we are being pushed by Russian television companies, in the west by Polish, Czech, Hungarian, Crimea occupied by Turkish radio waves. I'm not talking about the expansion of a radiotelevision product, unfortunately, often not a better species from many other countries. To our conviction, we need a comprehensive program of technological development and modernization of radiotelevision infrastructure for the next decade, to be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Council, along with other state structures, and submitted to the Supreme Council for approval. This document should clearly specify all the necessary parameters, dates and sources of funding. Ladies and gentlemen, today's report is seen as a collaboration with the Supreme Council of the new calling. So we look forward to our constructive proposals and our active legislative contribution to the development of our nation's television information space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please point it on the board. National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u4	[[Leonid Vernigora, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] Please pass the word to Vitalia Šibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u5	People's deputy, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u6	Boris Ivanovich, we know your selective principle to political opponents in power, well, we all know that how someone will speak from the political opponents of Kuchma or other authorities, is immediately closing this channel. And I think in today's speech we're going to call you specific numbers. But you are now. [[We're not going to raise that question right now.]] But now you've been very perceptive about closing all these channels or demonstrations on the channels of all these horrors and violence and all that sort of thing. That's why I'm asking you. For example, how many times have you warned the "ICTV" channel that it regularly shows all these movies that you call them?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Well, we're not just an ICTV channel, but all the channels that are running these broadcasts today, especially in horror movies, with cruelty and all that kind of inadequacy, we've already warned all the television companies twice: both national and online. By the way, two meetings were held specifically on the issue of the All-U.S. Council and specifically on each company, including what you say, the conversation and the warnings of the National Council are already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u8	People's MP Levcun, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u9	He gave me his word. This is Taran Victor Vasilovich, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u10	Please, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u11	Thank you, thank you. Dear reporter, you were talking about protecting national space. I want to. Thank you. I'm sorry. Dear reporter, you were talking about protecting the national information space. So the question of how does the National Council protect its national space when it comes to what is happening and what is obviously happening today is the reconciliation of this defence with Russia. This question has been violated by the national MPs, you know what it is. Is this reconciliation the same as, say, Seminozhenko went to Moscow to reconcile our history with them? And the second. The question of protecting its national space does not merely mean protecting it from external factors, such as internal factors and, in particular, the fifth anti - Ukrainian column. Was there any reaction? Obviously, it was not allowed to be allowed anti - Ukrainian, systematically led by Kiselov and his company. And this was especially during the elections, and during the same discussion with Zinchenk, when Ukraine was sailing for Ukrainian money, for the money of Ukrainian taxpayers. Did the National Council strike a finger against a finger, or was it in a frozen dream? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. No, the National Council was not in any condition, but it was only in this regard that it was leading to the next position. You know what I said last year, that the National Council for this convening for the first time in seven years of the National Council and five years of the National Council Act since 1997, we've intensified international work. First of all, we're working on the question now if article 13 of the TV and Radio Act says that the language of foreign broadcasters using Ukrainian channels is made on the basis of interstate or international agreements, and companies don't have such agreements today, and they're working on the pattern that they worked on until 1997-2000, and they're continuing now. We're asking the question right now: there must be an interstate or an international agreement, and first of all we've done with Russia, we've prepared such a project, and now it's working on signing such an interstate agreement with Russia on the possibility of speaking Russian in Ukraine, Ukraine in Russia. And this deal is going to be signed over time, and I think it's going to be signed with Russia for days. With other speakers from other countries, it's not just Russia, there's no such deal. The National Council raises questions before diplomatic authorities, before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to reconcile these issues with the governments of other countries and under the current legislation of Ukraine to the current legislation of Ukraine. I'm grateful you're not just saying that it's not just the outside. But it's so external. There are also inside radio companies, insiders, who are really doing a lot of broadcasting and speaking without the permission of the National Council. There is such a rule -- the retranslation is approved only by the National Council. There is no radio company that would refer to the retranslation of another speaker from another country or from another radio company. We demand it. There are 49 articles where there should be international cooperation. But only by agreement between states, or by agreement between countries, which should be. So we bring him in and we want to bring him to the current legislation of Ukraine. We are being reproved today, but what about the European Convention on Transboundary Television? There are other requirements. And I'm telling everyone who's saying, well, when the European Convention on Transboundary Television is ratified by the Supreme Council, that's when we're going to talk about these things. There's power, there's opportunity: most programs go overseas to Ukraine, then there's no ban on tobacco, there's vodka products, and so on, but it's a different field and stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u13	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to Deputy Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u15	Deputy Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u16	National Deputy Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Hersonian. Dear Boris Ivanovich, I have two questions for you. The first question of this nature: please tell us on what basis does the American Radio Freedom operate, which gives the floor to everyone but the Communist Party? The objectivity of our reality cannot be appropriate. That's the first one. And secondly, why don't we take action by the National Company on 1+1 and Inter channels that advertise liquor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. This applies to me, in my oral form on the phone, and to the members of the National Council and the leadership, here present, we are asked these questions, especially when we meet. That was the question I had when the hotline was in one of the newspapers, and I was asked from a region, I remember, the phone was, as it were, the radio radio was by Mr. Saiboner's Radio Manager, and he said such a thing, it was that during the elections, the company was really giving the opportunity to all political parties, except it was said, the Communists. I said that Communists and entire political parties did not go to the National Council for elections. John Sergiyovich Chizh, who was present here from the Derkominform, we organized the entire company so that there were very few references to these elections. But I don't think that can happen at all. Dear company, the more you say this company Radio Freedom is not registered in Ukraine as a broadcaster. She's on a sub-date at the Ukrainian company's "Trust Radio." And three weeks ago, the National Council, well not only in this context, there were other requirements for online speakers that asked the question to be brought into line with current legislation, 13 articles, 49 articles of the National Council Act, the Article on Retranslation and other legislation requirements. But when we ask these questions, I'm going to tell you that it's just in Ukraine that there's so much resistance to all of this to be conducted in accordance with actual legislation that the National Council thinks whether to conduct it or whether it's going to be the way it was. As for the second question. Ladies and gentlemen, to tell you the truth, today's advertising problem in Ukrainian television is an urgent problem for the National Council. Since the first day in two years, we've been asking questions about how to do it, both ICT, and STB, and Inter, and 1+1, and network channels, the New Channel, and others, and especially in cities, we have a lot of concerns about the National Council. What's the plan? What can be advertised today in our legislation? The law says that it is not possible to produce tobacco or vodka. But the brand, the brand of our product, we can advertise according to our legislation. That's why I'm asking this one. I understand, Valery Dmitrovich, what this is about, I am asking today, before this current legislation, the Television and Radio Act, the National Council Act, let's prepare. Now a group led by the National Council is being set up, and we are preparing these complex changes. And we're going to prepare and we're going to do it more clearly. I thank you for such a question, and it will be able to continue the work of the National Council in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u18	Boris Ivanovich, and I also have a question for you. The National Council on Television and Radio did not place a government order to discuss the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call on the channels of the National Radio Company of Ukraine. Please tell me why this is not done and when it will be done so that everyone will hear about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The same is true of each report of the National Council. I've been talking last year, and I'm talking now. At the meeting, there were five meetings of the National Council on this issue to highlight the previous convening of the session and this was the case. But look, please, as a stated standard in this respect. A government order, unlike other state institutions, is written down as a standard when it is financed by an authority that develops and provides a government order. The National Council cannot issue a virtually material government order, only theoretically according to the law. But then we went this way. At the National Council, we listen to the question of the National Television Company, the Radio Company, we ask the question and we set up control.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u20	Give an answer when this is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u21	When this is done by a television company and a radio company, I can't say that. It's in control of the National Council to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u22	I think, my fellow countrymen, I think the National Council will be enough next week when we work in the districts, because the National Council, judging by the decisions that are being made, can do anything as well as the Supreme Council can. I think that's how we're going to ask the question. Please, National Deputy Staszewski. And we're writing down a protocol assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u23	[[Stanislav Staszewski, city of Kiev]] . Boris Ivanovich is known to have had several unpleasant scandals around the National Broadcasting and Radio Board, particularly concerning the licensing of television channels Kiev and Utar. It is also known that the Kiev Channel case was reviewed by 5 courts and 4 of them, including the Supreme Court - the name of Ukraine - expressly decided to issue a TRC license for Kiev. And it is also known that the decision of the Governing Council has been refused by you and that a criminal case has been brought against your officials. Agree, the fact is unprecedented. So I would like to hear your opinion: Is everything okay with the National Council? Does it need to be staffed and radically changed in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Let me answer this question: Neither leadership nor the National Council need to be radically changed. As for the observance of the law in force, I have stood and stood, Mr. Staszewski, with respect and respect for you, and I will treat all the national deputies, especially those who have attended such a school as you. But the requirements of existing legislation should be the same for all. If valid legislation recognizes that there should be a four-man vote in the National Council of the Supreme Council, a four-man vote by the President, and then, according to the legislation in force, in the vote, I believe that this will be particularly equal, to the same extent that it should all be equal. And what was voted by four votes in the session, when the question was being resolved, by the way, Mr. Staszewski, I was personally supporting the radio company Kiev and voting for the license, but it didn't get five votes. I am now making this point so that the deputies will support a review of article 32 of the National Council Act, which deals with decision - making. But I'm going to say that the court decided to issue a license. According to the court, the ruling of the Kiev Broadcasting Company was issued. What about "The Morning." I spoke in my report, and I'm now stressing, and I'm going to insist that if there's a competitive selection of the best of the best of five years of a television company's work and the ability to show the better of the technology, of the personnel, of the software, of the lack of retransmission of other channels from other countries, I think it's acceptable when there's a big-level competition, objectively, and there's a case to be considered. It's about 37 channels. There were companies in the competition, including The Morning. They were considered, and the winners are better defined. As for other companies that didn't get involved, let's say in a competition. The National Council does not reject them, does not reject them. We'll give everyone a chance, I think on cable television others will be able to work in our country's television and radio space, but with one requirement: legislation, programs, footage and technical security. The power now has to be determined only through the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Question - and - answer time is up. Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. There'll be a chance in the play, please! I'm begging you, time's up! Please. Well, please, under the insistence of the people's MP Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u26	Dear Boris Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you this question. Your report shows that you are really supporting, pursuing public policy, and no one is saying that you do not deny it. But I want to ask you this question. For example, you go out for any company, and when you want to pay off, Coca Cola, Samsung, LG, they try to take the same amount from us, but considering that they pay cash, they take even more of us. And you always say, we support a domestic producer. Next. If a company, for example, starts to support a domestic producer, you take it and close it. So where's politics and what's state policy is that what we're proclaiming is to support a domestic producer, and there's no real thing like that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u27	What do we mean by closing when he is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u28	And so did I.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u29	No, your company was supported yesterday. Isn't it? Well, then I apologize. Really, good job, I'm just. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u31	I'm here to support our national producer, but you can see what this is about. Why am I addressing the deputies of the Supreme Council? The power in the Ukrainian radio information space of aliens is so serious that if we do that and don't make any changes to the legislation, we don't see any advertising, no products, no programs in six months, in a year, if there's anything else, we won't see anything. Therefore, the National Council today stands only at this point of view: everything leads to the current legislation of Ukraine. No American, English, Russian, Polish, there are others who should work only according to our legislation. I support our manufacturer and the National Council as a whole aimed at doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u32	Thank you. Thank you. Fellowship of the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Mikola Vladimirovich Tomenka Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u33	Dear national MPs, distinguished journalists! As one well-known Ukrainian classic politician says, that only the blind can't see, add to it -- and hears no real state of affairs in national television. I think today's hearing is unique in the sense that very many of the structures responsible for this space don't want to see and hear what's going on in this space. Today, contrary to the decision of our Supreme Council, there is no radiation. It's like we're looking at a situation involving nuclear weapons or nuclear energy, and it turns out that we're talking about an information policy that the fate of radio and television companies should be. And no one wants to do what they don't. They just don't want to do what they don't. I like Nakrad's reaction that she's going to solve this issue in the process. But they were able to do this a little bit earlier. In fact, Nazrad was in a unique situation, and she had been preparing this report for almost a year, so historically. And the report that we heard and what we read in the report is rather a work plan, not a work plan. I'm going to stop at what's put on the Parliamentary Committee by article 5 of the law. Our committee has been tasked with monitoring and implementing the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, other regulations of the Supreme Council in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Constitution, Ukraine's laws, and improving the effectiveness of their application. And as a result of these powers, it should give a different, sufficiently critical assessment of the National Council's activities. Having studied the Nacrada report and having listened to the arguments of the Nacrada members at our committee meeting, and having read the transcript of the previous (?) I have to say that the members of the National Council have produced some sort of stylistic understanding of current legislation. They, when this comes under the authority of their decision-making positions, they say that there is no valid legislation, and they can accept their normative documents. When it seems uncomfortable for them, they say there is another normative document. And this unique treatment of current legislation seems very interesting to me. A banal example: In the report you received, the National Council believes that the most important issues in its work are licensing, of course, coordination of the distribution of radio spectrum bands, the state of compliance with the current legislation. The Nakrad Act reads that the main tasks of this body are to ensure, in accordance with world standards, the development of quality television and radio communication, the growth of professional, moral, aesthetic, environmental education and television broadcasting. I mean, it seems that by its strategy, the Nakrad decided to distribute while the idea of the law predicted that they had to work on concepts, content, software, above all. I would like to stress that this is not a banal example, because if we continue to read the entire report, we will see that most of the language comes from such examples. The Nakrad writes: "With the collective will of all members of the National Council, we were able to bring charges and suspicions of unobjective and prejudiced treatment of a television company." I have to say that this is a very bold thesis that has disturbed not only me, but all the members of the committee. I mentioned a statement by the President of Ukraine, who in 2001 was surprised by the closure and misunderstanding of the National Council. If the President thinks that we have the Nakrad closed and the licensing is not clear, in what way, what can we say? If we remember what the international press wrote about the Continent situation, "Trust," "Ishtar," "Kiev," I think it's more than bold. "The decisions of the judicial bodies where the issues were raised," writes Nacrad, "in the vast majority confirmed the correctness of the Nacrad's decisions. Let's do a little math. At the committee meeting, we asked Nakrad: "How many court decisions were against Nakrad in 2001?" Well, some bold members of the Nakrad said fifty, so calmer than thirty. And they said it was very small, actually. In turn, Nakrad issued 42 licenses for 2001 on page 12, out of 514 channels of language. I mean, we look like, practically, every decision of the Nakrad was brought before the court. There was no practical decision to be made in any court of law. Now let's talk a little bit about the charges. Nakrada's approach is the following. They say that the courts of commerce and the courts of arbitration are not clear. That is, the approval of an arbiter or an arbitral tribunal, which means they're going to meet at the Nacrada and they're thinking of executing it or not doing it. For example, if more or less normal, the decision is made, then the decision is made. If they don't fit, they don't. They say, you write us a specific one, which means ordinary court or some other court, and yet we're an authority that doesn't make decisions. Whatever you say, you can judge 10 times. Now there are trials on regional television companies. The Nakrad representative does not go to court at all because, well, why the court, they work, they define their legislative field. In my opinion, what happens to court hearings is something unique. I call it the normal Nazi cynicism, because no one, the President, even in this country, is saying that he will not execute court decisions. Only Nakrad came up with such an explanation. No less cynicism, I think, is the passage of the fact that licensed television organizations show that Nacrad supports the local language, contributes to the development of network channels of speech, taking into account the interests of local communities. I'll admit that every word in this quote is not that there's no mistrust, just when I think about how many of the pints were from the local community, which everyone took into account, it seems that either these pilets and these turns of local communities have not been seen, or this report has not been written for the members of the Supreme Council. Further analysis of the Nacradia report allows us to go back to another subject. The board came up with this interesting thing, it came up with a new way of licensing, it came up with the term "network channel," which is not mentioned in any of the laws, and it acted by giving priority to these so-called network radio organizations. If you look at what network radio organizations are and who got the status of these benefits from the radio organizations, it turns out that, for example, the Kiev T.E.T., which worked only in Kiev at the beginning of the year, was given the status of a network television company, although once again, it only had a license for Kiev. And for example, the NBM, which had licenses in seven areas of Western Ukraine and the Trust Radio, which worked in ten cities, didn't become like that. If we look more actively at this problem of the Nacrad network, we'll see that there are also specific projects that didn't work in Ukraine at all, like "Tele-1" -- this is a new project in general, like the "Russian Radio of Ukraine," which has only been practically registered and has become a network channel, and a series of other things that have been completely lobbied by members of the Nacrad. Double standards were applied not only to channel licensing, but also to testing. The report says that we violated the legislation of Studio 1+1, National Television and INTER. If the question arises, if they were violating, on what specific sanctions did Nakrad apply to these violators, and what happened to these channels after these sanctions? As far as I can tell, when the license was to be revoked, the Nakrad found opportunities, like in the Continent situation, to do so. When a warning was needed, but no sanctions were applied, that was not the case. The Board conducted 180 tests a year. And there is no example in the report of what these tests led to. Someone's hurt, maybe there's an open case against someone, maybe something's done. I didn't find any such argument. A few words about the normative documents that I was surprised at the beginning. The board accepted a number of things, several of the positions on which it worked -- this is the Order of the License of the Languages and the Regulations on the Conditions of the Licence Competition. The previous committee approached the Institute of State and Law of Korea and appealed to the relevant institution of the State Committee of Regulatory Policy. The expert evaluations of both institutions are more than sad. Among the violations of these regulations are articles 19,23,32, 34, 92 of the Constitution, article 5.14 of the Television and Radio Act, article 2, 17, 22, 32, 36 of the Nacrad Act. In fact, all licenses issued on the basis of these provisions are illegal. If you take the basis of the expertise of these two institutions today, you can recognize all of these licenses that gave them to the Nacradu as illegal. The next moment that surprised me. When I analyzed Nakrad's work, in 2001, it seemed that the most fashionable words in Nakrad were the words "monetism" and "market." The members of Nakrad were so engrossed in financial matters, it seemed that they were only dealing with financial issues during their working hours, and with the software of the city’s free-of-work channels. Why did such an impression come about? They originally contacted what the company's audit and radio organizations are doing. They invented their auditions, proposed to television organizations in a mandatory order to conduct audits that they are not entitled to, since the National Council Act clearly determines that the audit opinion that the Nakrad can obtain is only an economic audit opinion. Thus, Nacrad began to check the financial situation of these companies. In principle, when you make a licensing decision, you need to know what the financial situation of the company is. But Nakrad began to do so. Moreover, they have found several audit companies where only these audio companies can be audited, and others cannot be passed. I'm not talking about a violation of antimonopoly legislation and so on. I'm just saying that to have law enforcement look, there's a lot of interesting information about how the audits were conducted in these right companies in one radio organization or another, not just the Supreme Council. So, this active monetary market activity, I think, has led to discussions, look, about closing channels or claims to channels that? For example, it's not a profitable company or, for example, it didn't pay off a loan. It's not like we have an accounting office, it's not like we have a judicial body that's going to study purely financial matters. To hear from Nacrada for once what she said, we're shutting down the television company because it doesn't comply with the rules on national language, so it doesn't meet the requirements for channel concept, for channel software, it doesn't have any software, and some programs that don't fit the current legislation, I would support that. When all the arguments are about money, frankly, it doesn't make me feel better. Boris Ivanovich said about the unique axiom that everyone supported, one channel is one speaker. The idea is, in principle, correct, but again, it's an idea from the perspective of double standards. This is the National Television, you know how this principle is used. Yeah, like the National Television, we have to take care of it, pay money. Well, somehow this didn't work out because 5.3 hours they gave Era to the National Television Company. On other channels, when it was convenient, this principle worked, by the way, as in a situation where local television companies should be humiliated. Actually, when you look at specific things, I didn't want to give an example, very interesting geography comes out. Now, I've recently looked at the situation that happened, for example, in the Kiev FM radio market, in fact, if there are virtually no Kyiv, Ukrainian FM radio stations. And I was approached by the Mayan Radio Company, which I think is in terms of stylistics, values, one of the most well-balanced, cultural Ukrainian companies. So it turns out that at a frequency of 104 in Kiev and the area, this television company, which has fantastic work experience in Kiev, lost a radio contest from Novomoskowska because it turns out that the New York radio company is more prepared to broadcast on Kiev and the area. At the same time, representatives of this Kiev radio company were not invited at all. You know, I mentioned that when I was a graduate student, I wrote an article about Ukrainian Freemasonry. There was a very well-known Ukrainian Masonic Lodge in 818 called "Love of Truth," and there was a catechism that people greeted to recognize each other. So there, for example, when one Mason approached another, he said, "Where does the sun go down?"and he said, "By the Chiguirin." So when I read the Nakrad papers and analyzed it, it's like they had a catechism, only it sounded like this when they said, "Where does the sun go down?" So everyone says, "Under the Dnipropetrovsk or under the Novomoskovsky." That's why I think so. [[Applause]] So I think that if we're going to discuss and debate today the situation with the National Council, I would like to talk about principles. In fact, there was a situation where the principles of strategic document activity, the key things that the Nakrad had to do, were not done. When we asked, "Did you put one idea into law?" "No, we're working on it." These laws are bad, the Supreme Council has done nothing for Nacrada. Well, at least one thing you offered to the Supreme Council? "We insist that we amend the Advertising Act or amend the National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting Act." And of course, I have a big mistake: I didn't work in party bodies and I don't know how to talk like that, answer questions when you're asked about one thing and you answer questions about another. But the situation looks like all of our questions are answered by one: "Well, bad legislative field" and "We're working on it." So it seems to me that we have to do everything we can to make the next composition of the Nakrad, and, you know, in the determination, our position is clear, to prepare and choose the next members of the Nakrad, so that they don't complain about legislation, so that they don't study the financial state of the organization, so that they don't discuss financial problems, but they think about the radiospace, and about the listener, and the radio viewer of Ukraine, and do their thing that's foreseen by the current legislation. And the committee and the Supreme Council, I think, will fully support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for questions. Please put your name on the board. National Deputy Chief Sergey Petrovich, please faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u36	[[Sergey Golovaty, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko]] Your Honor, I have a question for you. As you are the new head of the committee and the person who, in the past few years, has probably observed the social development of Ukraine, as you think, which other body in the public information space system, the media, in particular electronic, radio and television, may be responsible for the fact that in the last 5 or how many years there is a Nacrad. There's only one thing I see as a consumer: Prostitution, blood, violence, Russian - speaking service, I see Serdukka, I hear a Russian citizen, and then we only have homicides, schoolchildren kill parents, families shoot and so on. Who else, besides these journalists, who say they are professionals, have led to what happened to Ukraine, I don't know to what Asian or African level. Where did they see, they referred, the cold referred to the European experience where he saw such savagery in Europe? Who, apart from the cold, should bring about this order? You're the head of the committee, do you think, who besides the Cold and these professionals who are sitting with him today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u37	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. This is what it looks like. There are, of course, a lot of fundamental issues that, apart from Nacrada and, of course, the State Committee on Information Policy, which is also responsible for information security and information policy, more in fact for printed media than for television and radio. Of course, both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers answer. Today and I have spoken here earlier from this rostrum, and I would like to ask your support in the near future to consider the illegality of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on the new state of National Television. Previously, the National Television was with the President, now with the Cabinet of Ministers, which is completely contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. If you read the ruling, it is a mechanism for such a soft privatisation of the National Television Company because of this decision. So it seems to me that in such principled issues as information security, of course from the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and then the State Committee and the National Council on Television and Radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u38	National MP Mishur, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u39	Dear colleague, I think that everyone who worked in the party bodies knows exactly what he was saying, if he answered the wrong question that you were asked, then he stopped working in the party bodies. I'm very sorry you just don't know that. And I've got a question for you. When the Headmaster gave a very meaningful description of the filling of our radio space, what would you be like, a game like this once called "If I was the director," what would you do to change the situation? Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u40	First of all, I'd change the Nakrad if you would support me and support the decision that I've proposed to the committee. The other one. I think we're all aware that, to a large extent, the Nacrad, if so, humanly speaking, is a hostage to the real political situation, to real politics in Ukraine. If we have an informed source during the Nakrad meeting, the President of Ukraine is calling and clarifying what kind of license we should give, we are aware that it is not only the Nakrad that solves these issues, and not only the Cabinet of Ministers decides these issues. So I think that, of course, we're going to propose not only to change the Nakrad, not just to change the status and content of the State Information Policy Committee, but I think that in Ukraine, a political regime has been created that is objectively under today's conditions that cannot provide a civilized information space in Ukraine. That is why the political regime needs to be changed in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u41	The word is given to Nechiporeku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Please hand over Karmazin, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u43	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity Group, Our Ukraine. I sincerely thank Vladimir Nechiporeka. Dear reporter, you have now agreed consciously or unconsciously with the thesis "one channel is one speaker." I'd like to know where it's written. Did it happen well that, on the basis of such absurdity, I emphasize, a senseless principle, yesterday, for example, they stopped saying "The Morning," "The Nart," who had already had their own viewers, who had the decisions of the courts to suspend any action. Is the committee interested in who are the real hosts of those channels that are abroad? In particular, "1+1" and other very serious channels. Does your committee know that? How do you assess the control that was to be exercised by the committee, is it passive, or is it normal, or is it fault that the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine failed to comply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, if that's what I'm saying, if it's about the previous committee, because, I take it, the previous committee, because we only started our work, I think the composition of the previous committee was very not easy, there were 22 people working there. There have been sufficiently serious political conflicts, and perhaps much can be said to the committee that it could do more, more actively or otherwise. But I'd say otherwise: so historically, Nakrad refused to work with the committee. I looked at some of my predecessor's letters, now the deputy head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Zinchenko, when he, as chairman of the committee, signed letters to Nacrada, no one answered him. I, by the way, as the new chairman of the committee, have also addressed the Nacraada twice. Well, I've been waiting for the third week. Nobody's answering me yet. Well, really, how do they answer? I applied for a violation of the law on elections by the Nicaraguan TV company Quartz, and I wasn't answered, but her license was renewed yesterday or the day before yesterday. I asked her to find out when she was informed by the director of the MST, and she won the competition eight months ago, but the decision was not passed on to the head of the committee. The director of the television company, because he's in the wrong political line, and no one's answering me either. If the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Committee are not answered, which simple citizen or director of a body or radio organization can reach the National Council. What are you talking about? As for one channel, one speaker, I meant that if I were to base this on the thesis, and I didn't think it was clearly correct, this thesis wasn't true. And I set an example with the National Television Company Era, which is even if you stand up for this principle. In fact, as one of my acquaintances says, this thesis came after Nacrada members joked that one member of Nacradia was a television company, a radio company for a man. But a little later, apparently, the situation changed. And according to the same experts, there's obviously been a separation in Nakrad. There are more serious people where one man has two or three of them, and there are more simple people where maybe one or two television companies. So that's an interesting principle. And I think it's a new Nacraada composition, and I repeat that the position of the committee is to stand up for the idea of a new Nacrada composition. I think they're going to go back to that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u46	Silence, "Our Ukraine" faction, please, Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u47	I'm sorry, one moment. So today, we are dealing with this issue, which similarly concerns me, it has to do with actually the shadowy part of the Ukrainian media. And I'm here as opposed to a Communist colleague who said there was American funding, some other funding. I'm a proponent of foreign financing for American or Russian if it's done on the basis of actual legislation. If this institution that finances, is registered here, is liable to Ukrainian law, pays taxes, and it can be brought to court, then I feel that way. But the problem is different. We have a lot of television, radio and print media, based in such a way that it's actually Ukrainian people, well, mostly oligarchs, but formally it's grandmothers and grandparents from different islands, off-shore companies. Of course, it's an abnormal thing, it's a violation of the law. And I went to a number of serious analytical structures today that started this analysis. And I think in the near future we're going to get a real map of the media, where we're going to write, for example, a television company like that, the founders of 92 percent there in Cyprus, the newspaper like that, the founders there, 92 percent, the British Virgin Islands. By the way, this, and I'm willing to hand over to the Attorney General's Office free of charge to make it easier for them to find the money that was being exported from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u48	Please, Silent Paul Mikhailovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u49	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Mr. Mikolo, you have a question. It was understandable that when Ukraine was privatized, the information sphere could not but be a privatized group of individuals. And you understand why the National Television has a commercial structure, like the ERA, that runs commercial activities, the National Radio shows up on the same "ERA," and at the best of times, it exists, and it makes money, and it makes its own politics. So we're actually dealing with the crime scene. And these people who have come to the report today should report completely to other authorities. And by the way, today we're going to ask this question in your conclusions, based on the work of your committee and the analysis that you've submitted today, it's quite different to look at this perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u50	If the consent and position of the Supreme Council during the vote on Thursday is to make and, let's say, this is the norm for the ruling that we have prepared, I think. I said in my speech that very much interesting material is for the Attorney General's Office. And if you think it's necessary, I'll be ready and in the Attorney General's Office to present the materials that the committee has, in order not only to be politically responsible, but also to be legally and criminally responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u51	Ratschniak, the People's Landing Group. One last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u52	[[Sergey Ratushnyak, People's Rule faction.]] Dear Mr. Tomenko, isn't it going to turn out that we're going to be sorry right now for how bad it is, and we're not going to offer anything. On this point, I would like to say that especially for me, from the National Company led by the Cold, it's not just cold, it's horror. But that's not the point. It's kind of criminal capital. From offshore companies, he practically monopolized the information and ideology of our nation. And if you propose a new statute tomorrow for this Nacradia company and so forth, there will be no money for those national patriots who want to make a difference. And isn't that going to be crying in posters in a year, two and three, how do you do it without money? And the money is back in the same pocket that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u53	The subject is long and serious. The only thing I want to say is that one of the things the committee can and will do with you is change, regulate legislation and through parliamentary control of activities in such a way that, first, taxes are paid by the owners of television and radio organizations. When I'm told that we have profitable television companies, I'm amazed. I know a lot of profits, I know which countries these accounts go to and so forth. It'll be real money now. We can sort the advertising market in a way that makes it legal. So in fact, when we say, fight the shadow and corruption in the information space, in the information space, the shadow and the corruption part is no less powerful than in the economic part. So I think there's a way to do it all. And if you can, for the last time without asking, one fragment that I'd like to say is very important is a general principle. After all, when we decided to put mistrust on our heads, mistrust on the whole Nacrada composition, and we knew that in fact the different members of Nacrada, we were based on the principle. To my profound conviction, if we have declared ourselves as a European country, we must act in a system of constitutional legal responsibility. What does that mean? The Ukrainian people elected a new Parliamentary Assembly. Even if the Nacrad had not broken the law and had problems with the law, we would have had to change the Nacrad objectively because it was expressed trust entirely to other political forces or something else. How can we speak today when the Supreme Council in Nakrad is represented by a professional delegated by the Apple faction, a professional delegated by the Dem Union faction. Both political forces have lost the election, and their interests in the Nakrad are represented. Nakradya's changed composition. The largest factions of "Our Ukraine," the Communist Party, the Party of the Regions of Ukraine and so on, which, absolutely, do not know, and who their interests in Nacrad represent. Our approach is that. As long as we live in a wrong and wrong country, the idea of good professionals in Nacrad is not entirely correct. The right idea is professionals who have to represent the main political forces. And due to political competition and professional competition, the right decisions will be made. Therefore, we believe that the results of the elections, the state of political power in Parliament and representation in the Supreme Council should be brought into line, which, independently, even if the Nakrad should act in a different way than I have talked about today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u54	Time for queries and answers is over. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please sit down. The word is given to the author of the draft decree, national deputy Jovtak Eugen Dmitrovic. Please! In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u55	Thank you! About 95, Kyewovo, and Irpinsky. The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! Although, as far as I know, no matter what the Head of the Supreme Council has promised that a decision will be made today to broadcast this issue on Ukrainian radio, this has not happened. So, as always, we're being listened to by a limited number of listeners, only by Radio Rocks. I am a national MP for the third time from the majority constituency, and I very often meet with voters, and I would like to say that, given the focus of the issue that is being discussed today in the Supreme Council, this question is whether or not the most important issue in our country. Well, more often than not, I'm asked about social issues, low-retirement issues, about the return of undervalued savings. And the third important question is what's going on in our radio area. I would like to say that when you were in the fall of 1997, the Supreme Council passed the law of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, it formulated the noble objectives of that body. I quote: it is designed to ensure freedom of speech and the media, the rights and legitimate interests of consumers, television and radio audiences, and to monitor Ukraine's compliance with legislation in the field of television and radio. But with the Nacradis reporting today, they came out the other way. This important constitutional body entrusted on behalf of the State with serious powers has largely ruined everything in its path, making decisions not in the interests of the State or even in the interests of the political forces that have led their representatives to the Nakrad. Nakradya’s composition turned into a clan that subordinated its actions and decisions to its own interests. In the form of the development of the so-called Network Speech Foundation, regional television and radio organizations were ruthlessly destroyed, and mediaconcerns were formed in a new channel, language, and radio resources for the benefit of the chosen ones. The board did not better defend what had been created before it, but acted as a catalyzer over them, following instructions from the President's Administration, as it did with the radio "Content" and it had to be replaced not only by the State Committee of Informatics, but by the institutions of the Council of Europe, the TV studio "The Morning", the TRC "Kiyev" and others. In fact, the Nacradis house was surrounded by rallies and pies, and Nacrad’s work was a cause for many scandalous lawsuits. For example, yesterday the Kyiv City Council considered Nacrada an ugly phenomenon that disgraced the capital and decided to refuse this openly consumer organization in the provision of the premises. Remember how Nazrad acted in the elections when all the administrative resources and all the powers dependent on the President and the executive power were thrown out to save the Jedi. What are the legitimate interests of consumers and what enforcement of legislation, I quote the Nakrad Act, can this be? It's not that it's not that it's not that it doesn't take care of at least one television monitor, it just closed its eyes and set up its own affairs at a crazy rate, printing decisions for the benefit of the loved ones. In March 2001, according to a 2000 Nacrada report, the Supreme Council adopted a decision pointing to numerous shortcomings and calculations. But nothing has yet been done to remedy the situation, nor have the normative documents that conflict with legislation been corrected. To date, the activities of the Supreme Council, which is the direct responsibility of the Nacradis, have not been explained. Undeclared illegal clauses on how to license channels of speech, on the terms of the license competition. Without reason, the television company was denied licenses, the illegally defined licensing congregation, and many other violations. The very text of the decree that is proposed to you today. For the first time, it is proposed, in accordance with article 31, part 3, of the Nakrad Act, that a procedure be carried out for the resignation of the entire membership of the Nakradah, as stated in the Law, if the annual report of the National Council of the Supreme Council is not approved, the issue of expressing distrust of the head of the National Council or of all its composition, which results in their resignation. I would like to say that those proposals that I have proposed to the committee of profile for the text of the decision that I have proposed are accepted by me, and I invite my colleagues to support this draft decision, taking into account the complements of the committee of profile. The only thing I would agree with as a result of this discussion is that I would also agree with those suggestions, which I would probably have to add to another point on the attraction to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u56	Thank you, sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Papiev by the faction of the SDPU. Please. Is there a Papiev? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u57	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Social Democratic Party, Mikhailo Papiev. [[united]] Our faction analyzed the 2001 report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting, and it considers it necessary to stress the following. First. Based on the text itself, as well as many previous speeches by the Head and members of the Board, the priorities for its action and its activities were announced the implementation of the "one channel-one language" principle, the development of a regulatory framework for licensing television organizations, the reform of the structure of broadcasting organizations for the purpose of supporting and developing those who have proven their financial, technological and creative ability to do quality work, the support of the local speaker and the streamlining of cable-speaking issues and multichannel speech systems. This list does not, of course, cover the entire spectrum of Nakrad’s activities, but these are the ones that appear to be most vividly declared. Among the practical results of the 2001 Board's activities are: firstly, the approval of a large number of normative acts, such as the procedures for licensing channels, the conditions for competitive selection for obtaining licences, the order of retranslation, broadcasting on air, cable television networks, the procedure for granting permits for the use of electronic means of speech, the order of control of technical quality of programs, technical audits, etc.; secondly, the conduct of competitive selections for obtaining licences and the issuance of 77 licences, according to the October 2001 report; thirdly, the actual legalization of network language and the licensing of network broadcasters -- 34 television and 6 radio channels -- also according to the report. Fourthly, introducing the practice of retranslating licenses when a local speaker receives a license that requires a certain broadcast time not to be retransmitted by network language programs. And fifthly, a number of measures have been taken to protect the rights of minors and improve the quality of the information product broadcast on National Air. In our opinion, a positive position in Nakrada’s work is and should not be silenced. So please have, first, a view of the need for qualitative changes in the national radio information space, an effort to form the basic principles and directions of activity according to actual realities, a reduction in the licensing debt of television organizations resulting from more than a year and a half of Nacrad's inefficiencies, etc. At the same time, the activities of the Nakrad are marked by a number of shortcomings: lack of systematic work, trying to resolve issues outside the existing legislative field -- this is about network-based technical and financial auditing, licensing cables, etc., procedural infringements, this is a violation of the Nakrad's position with a professional parliamentary committee, a violation of competitive selection, the requirements of current legislation and the corresponding position of the Nacrada itself, and so on, the inadequacy of the stated principles of practical action, such as the licensing of the "Ara" television company at the First National level, is contrary to the declared principle of "one channel - one language". And there are numerous cases of licensing on local channels of speakers from other regions of the principle of supporting the local language. By combining positive points and listed shortcomings in Nacrada’s activities, it can be noted that by proclaiming principally faithful principles and by identifying the roadway of development in the practical actions of the Nacrad, it was a sad mistake. The mistakes of the Nakrad should, and even, I would say, simply be taken seriously and drawn the right conclusions. If that does not happen, all announced ideas, even the most progressive ones, will be lost. Following a preliminary discussion of the report announced today, the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine proposes a 2001 National Council report to be taken into account. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Side by side with the PSP faction. Prepare for the Truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have heard a lot today, and we have read about the activities of the National Council on Television and Radio. And on inexperienced MPs, all of this could have made a big, big, honest impression, like a child's tears, work. In the meantime, it's enough to look at all the Kiev channels and stick to some locals to understand: we're a deep political province, we're kind of a monarchy-corruption entity. And here you don't have to translate language into investment, a narrow market for advertising, economics, to improve legislation -- these are things that are understandable to everyone who has information space. We don't have that. We have the main thing in whose hands is the radio space. And the stewards of this space are in charge of Mr. Cold. I don't want to play the name of Nakrada's head, it's not serious, but I'll say it as it is. There's a lot of cold in this area, it's not cold, it's not "north" -- it's a terrible winter, and it's coming from the National Council. So let's think about recent stories with "Jute" and "Kiev" and even with channel "1 + 1. So let's all think about the radio space, and let's think about the main channels in whose hands. Now let us consider who was sitting or who had recently been sitting on the National Council and who was represented and whose interests were protected. If, let's say, cold, we understand Kuchma. If we say: Push or Knieżicki - we understand Pinchuk, that's the same thing as Kuchma. Let's say that the vulture, we understand Volkov, is the same thing as Kuchma. And so on. Not surprisingly, let's say "Inter" and "TET" in one hand, "ICTV" and "STB" in the other hand, "Gravis" in the third, everyone known. And what and what should we expect from them, what objectivity, what citizenship, and what independence?Oh, my God! In the election, they played one pin, although with a well - known result. And today they're playing the same game for those who lost, but then they're cynically losing the people. The Nakrad is a small copy of the deceitful and hateful people of the regime, a tool for the advancement of the forces in his hands. In the hands of this regime, it plays by the rules of the regime and the clans, not by law. This is testimony to the failure of the courts, the stubborn printing of the television room of those who dare to tell at least a little of the truth. And it's not the same with the persecutions on the radio broadcast by BBC and Freedom Radio, the Continent radio story, trust issues and so on. In the Nacrad itself, its employees appreciate loyalty to the regime, not to the people, but to professional qualities. She only released her representative in Poltava because, as the head of the district press club, she presided at my press conference and at Governor Tomin's report. The court reopened it. But what is the court for Mr. Cold we already know. Mr. Holodt and the National Council serve as a handful, that is, one person, not Ukraine, and that is a fact, it is impossible to deny. And that means they serve the interests of reaction, not democracy, not the state that the people identify, not one person. What the election and position of the National Council at this time have convinced us. Much of this degradation has also contributed to the work after the velvet committee on freedom of speech and information. Well, unless Nacrad is a foreign observer in the separation of the Supreme Council from radio broadcasting because of fear and blood in the eyes of all the well-known smug. We need to change the composition of the National Council or be kind, for we have recently chosen one. You can bet on the composition that the Supreme Council forms. Because there's a lot of hope for you like talking about a stone. Today’s composition is not ready to serve law and democracy. Just don't put any control on Mr. Zinchenko. You don't have to be naive. He's first of all a person who's interested in the obvious reasons that I don't want to blame him at all. And with regard to the execution of the broadcaster's orders, when he was presiding at the Freedom of Speech Committee, he proved that he was waiting for some action and results from it, however, to expect parliamentary furniture of love's feelings. Let us assign this matter to Mr. Tomenka. This, in the end, belongs to him as a ministerial servant. I've expressed my point of view on the report, but it's not different, it's completely consistent with the problem of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u60	Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u61	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! What have we heard and read in this report? We can find out where there are vacancies in the Nacradia district centers, who have education and other big things to put out in a report to the Supreme Council. Maybe they got the bureau mixed up in a paradise by frame or some other facility, I don't know. Here, the faults of the previous composition of the National Council were named, and disagreements in legislation were named, and that the National Council considered it possible to disregard a lawsuit, a court decision. I'm asking myself. Until recently, there were six men in Nakrad. So you and I, together with the President, have created a non-convictional organ, a non-convictional six? Is that an inadvertent comparison to "time six now or what"? We can't be absurd; we don't accept court decisions. Who else did we hear from during the report, from which minister? The bravest we have in this respect is the Nakrad. And I'm not surprised that she only conducts audits in certain firms. For God’s sake, in Dnipropetrov’s technology, machines can only be used in certain devices, only then will they be granted the right to drive. It works in a certain system, it works in our society, in a society where 60 percent of the shadow economy rules the ball. So I ask myself, "Can the National Council be another in our society?" I can't call this society capitalist because I don't want to offend Western European capitalism. There was one definition of "constitutional monarchy," let's say in one of the newspapers, in the other. History has not yet found that we have acquired such things today. We have the media, controlled by the plans, we have the elections, we have shown that it was a lakus paper, and how the National Council on Television and Radio is working. Does it have at all, in its present warehouse, the right to be called the National Council? All of this was shown by the election. What Does Our Television Give Us? It highlights social problems, the social sphere, or, through it, the authorities report, as appropriate, on all aspects of how it performs its duties. How, for example, did the MPs or the president to whom the people were handed, that is, hired to defend the interests of the State and the people as they carry out these duties, and we will hear it on television? Never. We're going to see realisation, we're going to see, if two or three unemployed, some bums on the screen, we're not going to see social inclusion there, and we're never going to hear it on any channel. We can see each other's homeless child, but we'll never hear the system's evaluation, because if we hear it, this channel won't work again. There's the propaganda of non-certification, there's the propaganda of a variety of lotteries, which you say you're going to win, this is your chance one of millions. There are some other fools, there are some singers who sang two or three songs, and the channels are already spinning that she's wearing, who she's sleeping with, who she's sleeping with, who she's sleeping with, who she's born from, and so on. It's all sown consciously into this society and the National Council is just one of the players of the game in this society. I would say that it's not news that in a society where some innovations are being made, some reforms are already being made, it's already said in Russia, by the way, every innovation has to be tested for social fitness. What we don't do. Our channels, our televisions, our radios, that's if it's a total takeover from its power, we hear it from it. Then it's all right, the channel will work, thrive. Who will listen to him and who will switch is another matter. This seems to be of no interest to anyone, even the National Council. And if we say that we have such a society and we speak fairly, why should the National Council be an island of super order, where there is no corruption, no bribes, nothing. How can it stay in such a system, be as pure as an angel, as it tried to present to us the head of the National Council, that there are barely saints there, there are flaws in the laws, there are shortcomings in the predecessors, and they work almost ideally? That can't be! It's either a conscious deception, or a self-deception. There are a lot of times our colleagues, my colleagues and your colleagues argue and compete in intelligence and say that there's something below the sewage level, something above the sewage level, so I can say by the term santechnics. We need to change the Nakrad, but first we need to change the system. The story of Utar is just another challenge. Here we were on the committee the other night, listening to the National Council, the other day, and talking about a lot about the Utar Canal. Is it that the committee's peak was specially designed yesterday to turn off in the middle of a movie, to show disrespect to the Supreme Council, to its committee of profile, or what was it? So I would like to say to the honourable members of the Nakrad, don't let many of them imagine, but the Supreme Council is an organ chosen by the people, and they have to report to it both through the committee mechanism and through the Nakrad mechanism. And what they gave up, so to speak, instead of Utar on TVTabauk, which doesn't even have its own product at all, and Utar is just as small, complete, a single novelty cycle, is there a lot of questions about whether they've done professionally, at least, or not professionally. I'd like to hear from Nakrad's new composition specific suggestions on how we can create public television instead of someone's personal channel; how can we create a public radio in the state? How can we work with the profile committee and the Nacradi to make this happen in Ukraine more quickly? I'd like to hear specific suggestions and mechanisms, and step by step, with terms, with performers and so on. I support, of course, the project submitted by Deputy Jovtak, with some amendments to our committee, there is no guarantee that we will have a better Nakradya composition, no guarantee. In our coordinate system, no one is likely to be able to offer it with certainty, but resignation means that there will be at least a moral assessment, if not an addiction, of any kind of moral prophylaxis for successors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u62	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich will be followed by Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u63	Karmazin, "Our Ukraine", Solidarity Group, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear colleagues, what we saw today, I learned the conclusions of the Nacrad. I understand why I signed the responsibilities there, not Boris Ivanovich, because Boris Ivanovich probably saw that the conclusions and the report were very, very weak. And as a professor, as a doctor of science, he saw that he was weak. What's worth, for example, is that the findings say that the National Council is a constitutionally active, non-recognizable public authority over the reporting period has been working entirely in the legislative field of the state, following decrees, orders, presidential orders, decrees and decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear members of the National Council, I would like to remind you that you should be guided solely by this book, which is called the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, and then by what is written there. And you've changed your priorities. So I understood why television in Ukraine stood, sorry, in another place, why the National Council of Elections stood with the letter "Zu", as they say in Odessa; why no representative of the opposition forces was allowed to speak in the elections. And no appeals to the National Council were possible. I would like to draw your attention to you today, I have heard such novels from this lofty rostrum, from this hall where the Constitution was adopted, I have heard such novels today that the lawsuits are not provided for by law, said Boris Ivanovich. Boris Ivanovich, my dear, read part of article 124 of the Constitution! I quote to the National Council: "The jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in the state." It's written in the Constitution. What, you don't know?Oh, my God! We know. What, though, is not known that judicial decisions are approved by courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to be enforced throughout Ukraine? - Part 5 of Article 124 of the Constitution. We know! If we know, then why are more than 30 cases lost by the National Council? Why are these judgments not executed and ignored? You know, I didn't talk to you once because you were talking to me. And today I'm looking at what happened. What has happened is that virtually every TV channel has its owners abroad. I was ashamed of our Ukraine when I was an observer in President Transnistria's election there watching our UT-1 with them. And they showed me what's there with the letter "Ere," and they say, "And you want us to," and in Transnistria, I remind you, out of 600,000 people, more than 300,000 Ukrainians, you learn Ukrainian when there's no Ukrainian word here?" That's true! There are witnesses to this today! And that's what we're putting in the national Ukrainian first television channel, and it's being released abroad! Oh, thank God they stopped broadcasting it right now! For such a disgrace the state of Ukraine cannot bear! As a representative of her people, I couldn't stand the shame of seeing it out there, abroad, my supposed television, with a wanking bow. And you know it, I know you were standing in the position of the law. But the principle there, in Nacrad, was different, the principle was, unfortunately, one channel -- one member of the Nacrada, to be stopped! The plan violated the requirements of the law, which imposed an antimonopoly limit on a 50 per cent reserve (?) a frequency channel in every city with local and regional broadcasts. More Tens (?) The television company was under pressure from a nationwide channel in its time. I've been talking to you, there are decisions of the National Council by company and Odessa. So what? For two years they have a judge's decision and a National Council license, and so far they don't announce, because they've given time to a stronger one. What about the Winnicki Ishtar, and what about those companies that were called today? As a result, cities such as Raven, Ternopil, and Lviv found themselves without a local television system. In Kiev, of the ten local TV broadcasters, only three have retained their license. And who? "Tonis," "Gravis" and now "Kyiv," but with which it's hard. Who Spoiled State Property? I'm talking about the distribution of elephants -- national channels. Who? And now the task, the task of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, is to find out who owns these channels. Name all names. They're familiar to me, but I'd like to prove some more tests and announce here. I think that this decision, and I'm now expressing the opinion of the faction of "Our Ukraine," that the decision that the committee proposed is balanced and, indeed, we were forced not to approve the report and to ask the question of changing not the legislation in this case, but the National Council. And we have to ask questions about the future of the state, because the National Radio Space is the national security of Ukraine, and the National Council has to have a position, including in elections, I stress, Boris Ivanovich, a position, not a position in which the National Council stood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u64	Dearly beloved, petitions to all those who speak to observe the rules. Please, Bespali Boris Jakovic, prepare Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u65	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Honorary colleagues, the head of the National Council, as he spoke, demonstrated his position. Both the oral and the written report is actually based on its contents are materials to reward the members of the Nacrad, I understand. There may be reasons for that. We'll see. I just want to take one direction: that's the execution of court decisions. 30 or 50 court decisions have not been carried out, as the head of the profiling committee told us. Our colleague, George Carmazin, now gave a specific example. As a cyanide, I can't help but pay attention to the failure to implement the decisions of the Kiev Broadcasting Company regarding the decisions made in the morning. Maybe it's a coincidence. Well, as far as I'm concerned, it's just as random as the heat in June or the snow in winter. What's more, the National Council is failing to execute decisions on a theoretical basis, you just read what it's doing. This is to be sure, the first paragraph of their report: "Subject to the decrees, orders and orders of the President of Ukraine, regulations and decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.".. As we can see, neither the Constitution nor the laws for the National Council exist. And that's a confirmation we've heard in the oral report now. I've only stopped at one point, but to give up Nacrada and admit her work is not enough, because we have to make this decision once, not a thousand. Next. They talked about political bias, about the National Council being a pocket organ. But, dear colleagues, let's take a look at this from the point of view of his solution. Unfortunately, the Constitution of Ukraine establishes a way of forming power in such a way that nothing but a pocket organ can and cannot be there. Because four members of the National Council are directly appointed president, that's half. And enough of the other four to have one of their own, and what about the President, who doesn't have one, that the National Council automatically turns into a pocket body. So I think we really need to listen to these and change the way the National Council is formed. Today the National Council has a chance to demonstrate that it has no prejudice. There are now additional elections to the Supreme Council in three constituencies. And the National Council has the ability to determine whether there will be a level playing field for all participants, or whether there will be some special advantages for court favorites and favorites. Dear colleagues, I think that we have and will certainly support that draft decision that was proposed by the committee of profile and we will support the proposal that was made very appropriately by the national deputy Paul Mobchan and supported in Yuri Karmazin's statement to refer the relevant material to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And we hope for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u66	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, get ready to work. There is no Lukyanenko. He's a workman. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u67	Dear Chairman! Deputies! I would particularly like to draw your attention to the degree of respect shown by the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take a look at the bed and the number of members of the National Council. It's a level of respect for the highest authority they're accountable to. Why is this happening? This is because the basic principle of representation of political interests is largely ignored. In our new Supreme Council, the situation has created 50 by 50, and another 95 by 5 is proposed in the information space. And all the decisions of the National Council fall under this scheme. A highly effective mechanism is designed: the analysis of the financial situation, the technical capacity. And because the opposing channel of ideology is less powerful in technical and financial terms, it's too close to breathing. I would like to emphasize in particular the unprecedented scandals that occur every week about "Trust," then "Continent," then "Nartu", and, in particular, the TRK "Kiev." I'm Chinese, and in principle, the Kiev TRC highlights Kiev's problems. I would like to point out that on July 16, 2001, there was a meeting of the Nakrada, where seven of its eight members were present, and where statements were considered. Four members of the Nacrada voted in favour of giving the TRC priority to the Kiev, four out of seven -- the majority for the meeting. No, the Cold Nation ignores this decision, but there is a court decision. But the head ignores the decision of the court. And it turns out that on June 21st, Nakrad was not executed. TRK "Kyiv" speaks without a license. Thus, changes to the Constitution are needed to remedy this situation. First. Rename the National Council to the Council on Inquisitions for Radio and Television. Item two. Changes to the Constitution. Take out the National Council on Inquisitions from the Supreme Council's accountability and the Court's accountability. So we either need to accept the amendments to the Constitution, or we need to clearly banish the National Council in its present composition with the disgrace of resigning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u68	Paul Mikhailovich Movchan, please. Prepare the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u69	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues! We know what was going on when we voted for the National Radio and Television Act. This is mainly the control, the objectivity, the promotion of the democratization of society, the improvement of the moral climate in society, the spiritual restoration of Ukraine. It was written in the preamble when we received it. Best intentions, what do we have? It's all an anti-national council, it doesn't take much time. I wanted to take Boris Ivanovich with me this "lieer" that we used to call him and banish him, and you'd hear that on the FM, you wouldn't hear any Ukrainian word, no Ukrainian song, no Ukrainian song. What I wanted to say is, I wanted to ask Boris Ivanovich, are you going to live with your children in this state, or maybe, like some here, maybe even, I'll be so suspicious of who's sitting behind my back, is going to live behind me, because they're hiding their money there, they're going to live outside Mikhailovsky's hamlet, but never in Ukraine. If you are going to, why is there such an anti - moral climate, social disfavor and contempt for everyone, customs, all that the Ukrainian nation has cherished for years, millenniums. Why are so many people recruited here who have become marginals in the information field in Russia? Who was already put in circulation, the same Kisielov, the same Molchanov, the same Yakubovich, who teaches us to pronounce "Dikanka". I can't understand how you can sit next to your grandchildren or your children and watch the movies they show us together. It's total depravity, it's that porno that's just rude, which has been avoided by Ukraine and burned by completely different principles. Why is such pervasiveness so prevalent in this short period of time? That's one conclusion that you're not going to be here. Or you're all looking at one sign, the green sign, but you have to put an end to it. Look, the changes have already taken place, the elections have shown you that you've been working very actively, that you've been involved with the National Council to make sure that there's no change. They are urgent, they are necessary. And let's at least do it for the beginning, and you're going to help while you're taking this place, because, you know, after conclusions made by the committee, you're going to continue to work on this council, which could be the paraphrasing of Ms. Kulich, the black council to be called, not the National Council, because it's all antinational. We can only do one thing for starters -- nationalize, for example, the Inter frequency channel. [[Applause]] In order to transmit these frequencies to the Supreme Council channel with a conditional title for "The Council." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u70	Sergey Petrovich. Get ready, Alexan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u71	The honourable chairman, the honourable deputies, the honorable, even the honorable Mr. Cold. You've submitted a report, and this report contains two thick sections that relate mainly to two things: licensing and frequency. I understand that these two directions are money. It's basic money when you license someone who doesn't license something in Ukraine, they put it in their pocket. Frequency is the same thing. And now I'm going to open a law on you, about the Nacradu, where you're going in two directions of monetary activity, and 24. 24! Therefore, the report should consist of 24 chapters. I'll read you the first two of them, that's the first and the last. The first is that your main task is to protect citizens' rights to freedom of thought and speech, to free expression of the views and beliefs provided for in the Constitution. That's the first one. I don't see in your activities, myself, me, my parents, my friends, my relatives, my political brothers, I've never seen it, I've never seen it on any channel, except for the JATAR direct air, where there are representatives of the opposition, there's no more. I see only one thing: I see channels, I see Pinchuk, I see Moscow, I see others, but I don't see Ukrainian citizens speaking out with their needs. I see "Inter" making bills and ordering things. You didn't do it. The last one is written, last paragraph, 24 tasks, but it's defined as a priority activity. Ensuring global standards for the development of quality television and radio communication, the growth of artistic, moral and ethical, aesthetic, environmental and educational programmes, the protection of Ukraine's national security in the information sphere, is a priority of Nakrad's activities. Well, I'm sorry! The Heart of Hearts is a permanent grass show! Kiselov teaches me how to live in Ukraine! Journalists who on all channels monopolized thought and absolutely dictate what I should do, it's being in the hands of only groups of channels, these are the products of your activity. And you're saying, here you're saying that there's a flaw that doesn't, there's no requirement for the state of language at the time. What did you do?Oh, my God! What did you do? But you just did. Get the Kiev radio. The Chinese, we lost our radio channel, Kiev, because they gave the day to some Russian-speaking organization. What are you talking about? Don't powder your brains, don't speak law, we're not little kids, you know, we're out. Of course, you work in a corrupt system, you order. The vulture sits there, remembers how he approached me when Kuchma campaigned against Kravczuk, and Kravczuk shut the mouth of the campaign led by Lesik, and then he asked me on TV to protect Kushma from Kravczuk, from the attack, because he turned off Leshik’s air. What was Scarlat doing when he was, as it were, in a state of national Democrats? Similarly, he fought the same corruption. But now it's different: they're shutting down the Utar air because the opposition are speaking. Don't fool people, we see it beautifully, we're not stupid! But I never agree with what you do in person. You destroyed the moral spirit of Ukraine, you destroyed our high morality, you destroyed it, you did nothing to support Ukrainian in Ukraine, and you did everything you could to destroy us to become nothing. Silence and Durres once fought against the communists, CPRS was said to have increased Ukraine. No! No! In the past two years, Kuchma and Nakrad have grown up in Ukraine. These are the fruits of your activity. I'll never agree with that. Of course you all do. No, I'm retired. We need to think with them, it's our responsibility. And, of course, they did their black work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we should advise whether we are now declaring a recess, or whether we are closing the discussion. Shall we finish? Then the closing word, Cold Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Thank you very much for discussing the matter. Some things, indeed, today depend on how the National Council will work both after the report and on what principles. I just want to say. Mikola Volodymyrovic spoke in his report, perhaps not yet reading the documents there: Since 2001, the amendments to the legislation introduced by the National Council have been amended by 67 paragraphs. To date, the Supreme Council has not been considered. Just a few changes made last year, so the request is that when a complex issue is prepared, let us solve it in a complex of laws: and before television for basic radio talk, for the National Council and so on. Mr. Bespalius spoke faithfully of four candidates to the National Council or a member of the National Council of the Supreme Council, 4 from the President. This is not just in Ukraine. There are different practices. I was, I was looking at experience in the United States, five members of the federal liaison commission. The head is constantly appointed by the President of the United States, four members are recommended by the President, approved by the Congress, and five are in charge of all matters. So there's no problem. There is morality, conscience on every issue that is addressed in the National Council. I agree with Sergey Makarovich, but criticism is possible. And he remembers how these issues were discussed last year. They're painful for the country. Language. Investments. We too stand in that position. Why does the law say "founder"? The world's gone. Founder of a television company. Owner. Then we'll know where he is, in Cyprus, abroad. We too fear: Where is he, this founder? We can't find it! The underlying persons are some others. Who will be responsible for this?Oh, my God! So I'm asking you, when we look at these issues, let's look at the complex, it'll help. Not these national councils, these national councils, these national councils. In general, Ukraine will be able to resolve this issue. Next on public television and radio. I am also concerned with members of the National Council about the development of this kind of television and this kind of radio talk, in general. Let's go through the two laws adopted by the Supreme Council on social television. None of them are working today. Who will be licensed, and how will you work with whom? Please tell me. We'll work. But you have to make up your mind. Is there a social television bill, a public television bill? Perhaps we need to review these standards, why is it not part of the country today? Is there a problem? There are problems. And we can work together, work together. I think the 24 tasks that we're talking about today are defined by legislation, by the National Council Act, they're defined, and we're trying to report it on every mission. A 2002 report is being prepared. He's preparing, like, today we're looking at, in France on 487 pages, a full-scale report. We're preparing it so you can look at who's in regional work, how many of the 8,000 hours per day -- 6,000 200 in places work, how they provide quality, program, frame and so on. In general, in appreciation for today’s conversation, I think the upheaval will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u74	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. From the committee is Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Please. Please turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to the MPs for discussing and supporting our draft decision. I'm just afraid that we'll forget today by discussing that we've discussed the draft decree and the specifics of this decision. The situation is that we will not vote until two weeks later. I suppose, as I heard on the same channel today, there would be a terrible politicization of this issue. I think in two weeks we're going to see a real state of information space, two weeks from now they're going to talk about the position of the Supreme Council and the position of the Nacra. So it's also going to be a good indicator of the real state of information. So I would also ask the leadership of the Supreme Council, and the National Deputies not to forget that the draft decision, apart from the general hearing, is also a draft decision that offers a way out of the situation that has arisen. I would also like to inform the national MPs that the committee at its last meeting announced the competition. We turned to the leaders of MP groups and factions. The committee is fully prepared to accept all proposals. And in the draft regulation, as you can see, we've proposed a fairly fast deadline. By July 8, the committee is ready to submit to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council of Candidates. And if there's any understanding on your part, we can solve this problem by the end of the first session so that we don't drag it into a long box. Because if we make a decision and we form the Nakrad in the fall, I'm afraid it's going to be a very hot summer, and a lot of decisions will be made in Nakrad that don't fit the current legislation. And finally, I'd like to say one more thing. So it happened, I don't know why, that, I think, the Narcada from today's report just got the idea that she didn't understand anything. I didn't hear a single sentence about Nazrad doing anything. The Supreme Council does nothing, laws are not passed, Russian foreign capital is pressed, and Nazrad is working properly. And it seems to me that the tragedy of this discussion for Nakrad is that after such a hard conversation, she thinks that she did the right thing, and we're all wrong. I think it's also a hint that before we should be radical here and soon form a new composition of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! The time spent discussing this matter is exhausted. The vote will take place on July 4. Requesting a profile committee to prepare the necessary materials, distribute them at the right time, and distribute them to the deputies. Now let's move on to different things. A request for a sign on the board. The word is given to the National Deputy of Bespalam, the faction of "Our Ukraine". He's refusing? Harmash, please, from the faction of Soccer. There's Bespaly, or Harmash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u77	Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine was approached by participants in a mining protest, miners of Minesinska Mines, Partizanska Mines, the Knights region of Lugansk, asking them to help protect their constitutional rights. Despite the fact that the Supreme Council has repeatedly called Kabmin’s attention to the unsatisfying situation of paying wages to coal workers, the situation remains extremely tense. Yes, the total wage debt on the above - mentioned mines alone amounts to 23.5 million dollars, which forces miners to take extreme action. 88 miners from June 11 are starving at the Mayan Independence in Kiev, two of whom were hospitalized yesterday in distress. Today, 58 miners have joined the miners. Now, in the morning, they went by column to the Shevchenkov District Court, where a lawsuit was being taken against the Kyiv District State Administration to bring the shareholders to justice. This morning, we tabled a draft decree for the Supreme Council, a statement for the plenary, a representative of the miners, and an assignment for the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Hajduk. Provide information on how to deal with this problem. But this ruling was not voted in plenary today. So, on behalf of the miners, I want to read the miners' address to the Ukrainian National Deputies. "We, as participants in the mining action protesting the cultivation of Ukraine's higher public authorities in Kiev, address you as members of the Ukrainian higher legislative body. We are driven to despair by the systematic failure to pay our wages. 116 miners of the two Lugansk mines "Miosinska", "Beautiful Light", "Partizanska" Anthracite, as well as part of the column of mining mines "Knagininska" M.Beautiful Light, the third week we are taking care of the administration of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. Our action is caused by the fact that the administrations of our mines have been for a long time since 1997 and have not paid wages, grossly violating our constitutional rights and laws of Ukraine. The total wage debt on the Messisinska mine is 8.5 million dollars. The "Parisanska" shaft is over 5 million. 10 million in the "Princess" mine. As a result of the systematic failure to pay wages, we miners are deprived of basic capacity to restore our physical strength. Our families are deprived of material resources and are forced to survive on the brink of poverty. Our numerous appeals to the administration of mines, to the management of the state-owned holding companies Donbas-Antracite, our statements to the Public Prosecutor's Office of Red Luch and Antracite, the Lugansk region, to the head of the Lugansk government, and in the future, to the Minister of Fuel, the energy of Hajduk did not lead to a positive solution to the issue." On Mayan Independence, 88 miners are now starving. At the same time, there is virtually no response from the authorities to the protest. June 17 from the State Department of the Coal Industry to the address of participants in the care campaign came back to our appeal, which is in fact a mere letter of exchange, and the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Hayduk, in general, refused to give an answer to our appeal. However, coal miners who care for the government. Against miners who are concerned with government structures and hunger, authorities and power structures continue to apply pressure measures aimed at breaking the united ranks of miners and forcing them to leave the city of Kiev. Yes, on June 18, following the appeal of the Shevchenkow administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, Shevchenkiv, the district government filed a lawsuit. Yet the miners hold fast, resisting provocation, determined to continue their action to the full satisfaction of their demands. As shareholders, we ask you to help us protect our constitutional rights, restore justice, and put an end to the adversarial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u78	Borszewski Victor Valentinovich, prepare for Solomatin. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u79	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region "Dear brothers and sisters! I am addressing you, my friends," that's exactly what begins on the radio on July 3, 1941, for Joseph Vissarionovitch Stalin to the Soviet people in connection with the attack on June 22, Hitler's Germany against the Soviet Union. This was the first time that it was said that it was a national national war. Tomorrow we will celebrate the 61st anniversary of this tragic date in human history. I quote from this statement: "The purpose of this national war is not only to eliminate the danger that has come over our country, but also to help all the peoples of Europe who are groaning under the yoke of German fascism. In this great war we will have loyal allies in the form of the nations of Europe and America. Our war for our country's freedom will merge with the struggle of the peoples of Europe and America for their independence, for democratic freedoms." End of quote. There was a long way to the Day of Great Victory on May 9, 1945. Now, as we look at the pain of the 100-year journey of our people after the age-old Great Motherland, we see more and more clearly than ever, and we perceive beyond any shadow of the years and events of the panorama of the struggle and victory of the peoples of the Soviet Union in war, which is a symbol of the incorruptibility of the spirit of our people. The nations of the world, all honest peoples of the earth, bow their heads, honoring the memory of the fallen and giving due to the living participants of this far - reaching war, who, by their wartime feat and self - sacrificing work, have provided the future not only to their Fatherland but also to all mankind. One of the leaders of our nation at the 50th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War said, "We stand on the need to approach events and facts accordingly, not allowing unceremonious and incompetent interference in the living fabric of history, and not offending the questionable generalizations and conclusions of the entire generation of fellow countrymen. I'm talking about this in view of the unique attempts of some innovators from politics and science to reverse the war into their own order. End of quote. Unfortunately, such a grouping of “innovators” in parentheses, and in fact, political collaborators, was formed under the patronage of the government at the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences, unpunished in its pseudohistoric benefits in the media of Ukraine. Ukraine’s veteran public demands that such an action be put to rest at the expense of the State. One of the main tasks of our generation against the fallen and the living is to protect the truth about the past of war, to prevent the image of entire generations of fellow countrymen for the sake of questionable political speculation. We will be faithful to this covenant. The eternal memory of heroes who have fallen into the fight for freedom and independence of our Fatherland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Paul Mikhailovich Movchan. Prepare Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u81	[[Paul Mokchan, faction of "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Hennady Andriyovich, honourable deputies. One day the question that I am about to highlight is what we have just considered. Because it's the same procedure, the same plan. If this was the earlier plan: five years in three years, now: Ukraine’s legacy in the rest of the time, to the new presidential election. And, as we know, on June 19th of this year, the National Palace of Ukraine, the 10th anniversary of the so-called Kharkiv Council, was celebrated yesterday. This meeting was held at night in 1992 when the phones were turned off. Then the Metropolitan Kharkiv Nicodemus misled the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, claiming that a simple council of bishops was being held in Kharkiv, not a council. [[and he can confirm]] This so - called congregation divides Ukrainian Orthodoxy and is therefore guilty of today’s complex religious, social, national situation. It is the reason that to this day Ukraine does not have the only local Orthodox Church, and its formation is at stake. We wouldn't mind celebrating the 10th anniversary of the Kharkiv Council if we didn't give that Jubilee a national character. First of all, at the 10th anniversary celebration, there was actually all of Ukraine's superior authorities. Second, it was actually held in the National Palace. The question is, did it have to be on a national level to celebrate divisions and thereby legitimize the situation that is and not see the prospect or take it down? Should we be happy that Ukraine has been torn apart on religious ground? I will recall the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since July 10, 1992, that is, almost 10 years ago, which states that although the Ukrainian State does not intervene in church affairs, it cannot recognize the functioning of the Kharkiv Council. The same was said by the Ukrainian government. Has the Supreme Council Presidency already been canceled, please say? I've been here 12 years. Of course, why is this happening on a national level? Because the President wants to take Lukashenko very quickly. Welcome to the Jubilee, Ukraine’s president, Leonid Kuchma, reminded Ukraine of the need for the only local Orthodox Church. We approve of the faction and support the formation of the only local Orthodox Church. But is it possible to create it, given that the so - called Ukrainian Orthodox Church in Moscow is fueling religious hostility in Ukraine’s Orthodox environment? We hear about this all the time in religious programs through the "Nard" channel led by Cendrovsky and Bishop Paul Lebed. The report at the Jubilee Assembly at the National Palace of Ukraine the other day, read by Father Mikola Zhabuga, did not call for reconciliation and union, but was provocative and aroused religious hostility. By the way, the Act on Freedom of Conscience in Ukraine and the constitutional article prohibits the inflammation of hostility on religious grounds. The government should put an end to the inflaming of religious enmity and bring responsibility to the guilty. So I'm making a proposal on behalf of the faction and I'm asking it to protocol it, to refer the case of inflaming religious hostility to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Spirituality and Culture in order to make an appropriate decision on the inadmissibility of incitement to religious hostility and the use of force in interreligious relations that take place today when the churches of the Ukrainian Patriarchate of the Ukrainian Church are admired, particularly in Poltava and Zaporozhye. The memorandum was signed by all religious leaders, but unfortunately it does not work. That's why I'm asking Hennady Andriyovich to read out my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u82	The word is Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich, to prepare Kozak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u83	Ivan Mihovich, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Chairman, colleagues, guests! Let me publish an application for interfractional MPs to support the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church. We, the Ukrainian national MPs, recognize the Orthodoxy as a religion that shaped the statehood, spirituality, mentality and national consciousness of the Ukrainian people, bearing in mind the responsibility of the people of Ukraine, believe that without the full support of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the restoration of traditional spiritual values is impossible to develop the country, its spiritual, economic and social potential. The past decade has shown that despite the declared religious freedom, respect for the fundamental spiritual values and traditions of our people, there are many unresolved ecclesiastical and interfaith problems in Ukraine. Ukraine has also become an object of missionary activity for many destructive and totalitarian sects and nonreligious cults that have nothing to do with the history of our people. Over the past 10 years, we have witnessed an inadequate attitude toward the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which does not fit its role and significance in the lives of our people. Surprisingly, the thousands - year - old Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the church of St. Vladimir, the capricious Cossacks, Bogdan Hmelnicki, is considered one of the 125 religious organizations in Ukraine to be equal to the sad - known word of faith, the embassies of God and other pseudoreligious formations. This is an expression of disrespect for himself, his history and his state. Such trends in church-state relations are, unfortunately, being observed today. In this regard, we claim to create an interfractional parliamentary union in support of the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which guarantees the spiritual health of the people, preserves their identity and national identity in the process of integrating Ukraine into European society. We urge the distinguished national deputies to support our initiative and join in our union. 52 national deputies from different factions, groups, and regions were signed. They authorized representatives of the union to be national deputies of Samuel, Matvienkov, Dustenka, and Mihowich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u84	Thank you. The word is for Puzakov, to prepare Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u85	[[Vladimir Puzakov, Ukrainian Communist faction]] . Dear colleagues! I turn to this rostrum to our faction in connection with the event of planned reformers in coffeehouses, the destruction of agricultural processing enterprises. On days 19 June, on UT-1, events were highlighted at the Hmelnick Congregation of Bread Products, where the new owner threw out workers for scrapping and dispersed the business, despite the active opposition of the labour force, but with the criminally silent observation of the authorities, law enforcement and the judiciary, both local and central. No one pays any attention to complaints and complaints from people. Under the same scenario, sugar factories are being destroyed and we have in Kirovogrady New Ukraine, Ulyanovski and other areas. The day before yesterday, on 19 June, Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko had a deputy delegation from the Ulyanovo region, who said that the cockroaches from the sugar plant, along with the rhyading, had created a closed stock company, whose charter fund had taken away the main assets of the plant and left the children's garden, house of culture, dormitory and all debts at the balance of the open stock company of the Ulyanovo Sugar Plant, with a salary of 1 million dollars since 1998. The closed-circuit stock companies, which were established in the same factory, sold 200,000 bracelets at the balance sheet value of the property of 4.4 million bracelets. And the Transug Science and Production Enterprise of Odessa, under the form of scrap metal, exports all vehicles and technology equipment. The plant is destroyed in the eyes of all the authorities and its workers cannot obtain assistance from anyone in the State, protect their constitutional rights to work and pay for it. No one responds to the appeal of the law enforcement authorities to falsify the leadership of an open-ended shareholder society, which heated the hands of one and a half million bracelets, to oil operations, and to the implementation of an effective firm of 560 tons of sugar. We, the people's deputies of Ukraine, from the Communist factions, turn to the Attorney-General's Office and ask that this be considered as a parliamentary request for measures to protect the good of the people, investigate and prosecute the criminal proceedings against officials of the open-ended shareholder society, the Uljanov sugar plant, for the crime of disrupting enterprises and their property. We also turn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization issues. Take the example of the said sugar plant of privatization machination and make a proposal to save sugar factories and CCPs from destruction in the form of privatization and the search for an effective owner. Respectable comrades! We must not stay away from the process that will lead to bloodshed. Before that, people are desperate. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u86	The word is given to Bondarchuku Alexandro Vasilovich. Get ready for Polishku. There's Bondarchuk, there isn't. Polczyk Mikola Efremovich, please. Get Boki ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u87	The great Presidency! Distinguished People's Deputies! I'm speaking for the very reason that I'm extremely concerned about the devaluation of science. Today, scholars of science and science are assigned to those who are far from science. It seems to me that the officials, and we were listening here when the government was being reported, we gave the government an assessment with you, but we forgot that there was a precedent, and not only in the Presidium, but also in the Cabinets a lot of doctors, professors of science and even academics. I have the impression that the act of an official stimulates mental, scientific abilities. Everyone who has become an official has become a doctor of science, a professor, an academic, and a well - deserved politician, and a winner of the State Prizes. I have a question like a person who's only recently come from science, how is it possible, where you can take time for such serious development, at the expense of what? It seems to me that this is one of the indicators that time probably gives to science, it's not doing what it takes, and that's why we have what we heard today, more faithfully with you yesterday. I think the Cabinet of Ministers should think about whether he will have or an active Cabinet of Ministers, or the branch of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, both national and profile, or something so perverse? And the perverse, those who know medicine know what it's called in Latin, it's a curve. I'm not going to translate it into Ukrainian, because some people realize it's an uncensored word. I think so, I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should respond to that, and the relevant committee should respond to that, and make a decision, or maybe a bill that everyone should do what they should do. That's what Mikhailo Bulgakov said in the early 20s, and I think most of us have seen that movie, and they know that if we don't do what we should do, then we'll have what we saw in that movie that we saw. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u88	Thank you, Mikola Efraemovich. The word is Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u89	Dear fellows, distinguished national sufferers! On this rostrum I was forced to come to the capital of the Poltats, outraged by what they consider to be an unethical, insolent exit of the citizen Leonid Kuchma in this sessionary hall. It is known that it is their work of high-value folk art -- beautifully made boots from the horn, on June 18, this year our colleague Yuri Lucenko solemnly gave the citizen Kuchmi as the President of the Ukrainian State thanks for his great merit in the destruction and destruction of the economy, the degradation of culture and morals, the spread of genocide, corruption and the reinforcement of the oligarchic capital in state structures. My countrymen viewed this gift to a citizen of Kuchmi as a merited prize and a great favor to the people, and they thought that it was in these art shoes from the horn, as a symbol of the happy day of the Ukrainian nation, that he would lead our victorious journey through the Carpathians to Europe, worthy of the Suvorov crossing of the Alps. But Mr. Kuchma showed ingratitude and contempt for the national symbol, for the pure soul, for the production of the folk soul, and for the high art of ours, and for the high value of our art, and for the sake of something he had mentioned the size of the cornea. My countrymen and my countrymen, Grigori Savovic, and Deputy Karnauha of the district of Poltavščina, are very offended by this, they know the size of their shoes that Kuchma citizens wear. And they were knitting their shoes right on his bastard, so that they wouldn't push anywhere, but they considered the memory of Frost to be an undeserving bitter insult. Because it is known that women’s warm hands and ecologically clean shoes from an artificial horn have no fear of frost. Skovoroda’s landowners also asked for a long - standing thanks to the national deputy, Sergei Petrovich Gmiri, for his high consciousness, heroism, and respect for folk art. They saw that the President had hit the shoes without a horn straight into Mr. Gmir's forehead, but the high-aware national deputy had not corrupted them back to the citizen of Kuchma, and thus the national diplomat had helped avoid the national scandal and two dangers -- the organization of a shoe match in the session hall, and the beating of two Ukrainian high-ranking citizens in this room. Earthlings Grigori Savich and Mr. Karnauch ask the high-ranking Head of the Supreme Council of Dr. Litvin to award our colleague Gmiri Sergey Petrovich a reward, who is known to be a brilliant humanitarian, free humanitarian aid in the form of a bactericidal patch on the forehead in the city of Presidential trauma, and citizen Kuchmi to declare the challenge of disrespect for the native Ukrainian folk art and the contempt and assassination of the deputy of Gmir, to give him a meeting of Skovorodi works to understand the poetry and philosophy of the creators of the shoes, and to declare the Supreme Council as a victim of the damage and to pay the bill for her moral damage. Grigory Scorods rely on the wisdom, courage, impartiality, and motor of our speaker. Amen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u90	There's something I don't see. She's gone? The word is given to Shevchuku Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. Request all: Follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u91	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! From this rostrum, national deputies often quote the Constitution of Ukraine, showing it. That's probably true. I would also like to remind everyone here about article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which contains the right of Ukrainian citizens to work, which includes the possibility of earning a living through the work he freely chooses. And each of us, according to this article, every Ukrainian citizen has the right to this salary no less than the prescribed law. You and I have determined that the minimum wage rate of July 1st in the second half of this year is to be no less than 165 dollars. This is a positive phenomenon, and none of the national MPs assumes that it is unwarranted. But honourable national MPs, in fact since July of this year, Ukraine can become the only state in Europe, and perhaps even in the world, where the reward for working for those with secondary special education has a professional level, and those without any education, or the start of education, are practically comparable. I am referring to the state of financing of health - care wages, perhaps in other areas of the budget. Since July 1st, the official salaries of the nurses, which we very respect, which we call a nurse's time, who may not have any education or initial education, and the average health worker's salary: the surgical nurse, for example, the district nurse, will be the same. I want to focus on this question not just on funding medical people. It's practically devalued in general the need to get any education: special, higher education -- in our country. With this attitude toward the work of the average medical staff, one should expect an increase in the professional, professional, workplace, and even more indignant about beatings in health care facilities. The Constitutional Court’s decision to enforce the principle of free medical care in public and municipal health institutions effectively eliminates the last possibility of material stimulation of the work of better doctors at the expense of additional paid services. It is also a strange initiative of budget makers for the following year because it provides for a difference in the number of protected budget articles, including salary, which will result in a new increase in debt from social pay. Since the beginning of the year, the CTC of the medical profession has been in a state of working conflict with the government. The forms of labour protest may vary, it is clear that doctors do not have the right to leave the patient without medical care, but there are other forms before the test. And think about it, fellow citizens, we're talking about health care for the strikers, and in the second half of the year, there might be medical help for the citizens from the strikers. Stop talking about its quality and its effectiveness. No one has annulled the 77th article of the Health Act, which is valid and foresees a steady approximation of the level of pay in health care to the level of health care in industry. So today, this level of health care, I'm finishing up, is in the 20th place in 22 branches. That's why the faction of the People's Democratic Party claims that urgent action by the government is needed to maintain proportions in the wages of younger, middle-sized medical personnel and doctors, starting in the second half of this year's year. Otherwise, respectable colleagues, the field of health care, as an overly attractive area, will gradually move to private clinics mostly with foreign, foreign personnel. The payment of services will not be prohibited by the Constitutional Court, since it is at the Athens clinics. What will be left for state institutions? To them, there will be tuberculosis, AIDS, infectious diseases, and oligophrenia of the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u92	Please, Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u93	Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The question I want to raise today has already been raised in this room. Sadly, though, positive developments have not yet occurred, and time is coming. We agrarian deputies are forced to address the government's situation in the Ukrainian oil market in connection with the sharp increase in fuel prices, which will certainly have a negative impact on the performance of Ukraine's entire agro-promoting complex. Harvesting began. The total demand for June, July, August is 1.2 million tons for the agro-industrial complex. In view of the oil products available today, it is still necessary to purchase about one million tons. In addition, the increase in the price of 500 million dollars is equivalent to the elimination of one million tons of grain. Taking into account the conduct of the entire fieldwork package by the end of the year, the financial costs of the farmers alone will be more than 1 billion dollars as a result of the increase in fuel. The economic situation has been compounded by the recent decline in the price of milk and meat and other agricultural products three or four times against what was at the beginning of the year. I mean, farms are pricelessly forced to implement their products. This will undo all the positive developments that have occurred in our country in increasing agricultural production and agrarian reforms. We would like the government to answer the following questions: " What steps are being taken to remedy the situation in the fuel market in Ukraine in order to prevent the increase in agricultural production and the decline in the standard of living of our village? Why does our country have such a negative situation every year when the sharp rise in oil prices usually coincides with the start of harvests that mark the results of the work of farmers throughout the year? How is this government policy linked to the pricing of measures in the agricultural sector under Ukrainian laws and presidential decrees to support its own producer and output from the economic crisis?".. Farmers expect the government to take urgent action to create an agricultural commodity that is conducive to farming, to remove negative trends in the field of oil - price hikes, to provide a wholesale price support especially for grain, milk, and meat, and to avoid the estimates that occurred in 2001 in connection with the implementation of the agricultural product that led to major economic losses. Please consider our application as an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is given to Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u95	I want to read a statement from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. "About Leonid Kuchma's statement to create a consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system. On June 9, this year, the Ukrainian media reported on their intention to create a "consortium" joint venture with the management and development of Ukraine's gas transport system, involving the social activities of European gas companies. The inaccuracies in President Leonid Kuchma's comments in St. Perebourg, following meetings with the Presidents of Russia, Putin and Chancellor FERN Schroeder, which discussed the creation of a consortium and a unique gas transport system of the country, which is its strategic property complex, require the faction to pay attention to this. Ukraine’s gas transport system is part of a list of objects that cannot be privatized or transferred to the administration in accordance with legislation. The other one. The creation of any consortium in Ukraine is possible only if there is an appropriate legislative base that is not yet available in Ukraine. It means the laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on treasury property, on government property management, on the development bank, and so on. Only on their basis are the functions of the Government, which is a key body in meeting contractual conditions with foreign partners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, in line with the policy principles of the U.S.S.A., has spoken and will continue to speak for the development of mutually beneficial, wide-ranging cooperation between Ukraine and all countries, first of all, with its neighbours. And he thinks it's necessary to build an external economic relationship on the basis of cost-effectiveness by involving external investment in the needs of the state. At the same time, we believe that such relations should not depend on the subjective thinking of any of the state's representatives. The development of such a relationship must be self - centered, transparent, understandable to society. The faction insists on holding a special meeting in the Supreme Council to hear about its external economic activity, investment participation, cooperation with business structures abroad. Yesterday the question of the inclusion of this Italianism in the eve of Government Day was blocked by the faction of the Communist Party and the only Ukraine. We hope that the position of the Communists was based on the two decisions they made. If we do not have the support of most of the Supreme Council for a resert hearing, this can be seen as a desire to put into the hands of the Russian bourgeoisie and the German parties with which the left parties are fighting, the strategic object of Ukraine. We urge all the deputies, Ukrainian citizens, to pay attention to developments around the creation of a consortium is loss. This could lead to the loss of economic sovereignty of the state, increase three times the price of gas and, of course, electricity in Ukraine. This is a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u96	The word is given to Bondarchuku Alejandro Vasilovich, to prepare Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u97	Bondarczuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies to the situations of conflict that are now taking place throughout Ukraine. Unfortunately, it seems that life on the ground is on its own, and the Supreme Council is dealing with some completely different issues. Well, here's two facts from today's capital. For three consecutive days, residents of the city of Kiev are covering General Vatutina's prospectus, thus blocking the road through Moscow and the bridge for three and a half hours. The problem is that the construction of a filling station directly under the homes of these people in the area where the general plan was to be built would be to establish a park area. The citizens were concerned, sold to the private office of Byontu, which means that the land is being built and that the ecologically harmful facility is being built. Second fact. The Shachers, 50 people, were stationed in a camp in the central square of the capital on the main stage of the so-called Independence of Ukraine and declared a hunger strike. 50 people. Problem is, no payout. So what connection, maybe someone doesn't understand, between our work and what's going on on the ground. On the first occasion. The Land Code, adopted by the Supreme Council, has incorporated green light so that now the most greedy pieces of capital will be taken over by all progenys whose sole task is profit. And, of course, it will be fought by all means. Not only did they cover the roads, they burned the fences around this gas station at first, it's about 400 meters of wood. This boiler was then periodically dumped with construction equipment by the firm. One person died during those conflicts and much of the responsibility rests with the Supreme Council for what we once again have made the land a commodity. And the blood flow in Ukraine, remember my words, there was always a very hard fight. Therefore, I would like to address two addresses: Omelchenko, Head of Administration of Kiev City, Mayor of Kiev, in order to address the situation surrounding the construction of the Bion company in Trieste. And the decision to build this facility was overturned. And secondly, to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, it is necessary to pay for the operation of the frame mines. And if they're going to go out on the same side of the protest in Krestatika, they're absolutely right. And the last. Guys, we need to figure out what's going on with our passports. In the city of Suma, for example, people who are 75 years old now are asked to change their passports without delay, so they need to make money. Otherwise, if they don't, they can't get any evidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u98	The word is given by Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u99	The high-ranking chairman, the high-ranking colleagues of the national MPs, the honourable voters! I wanted to start my speech with the famous Bulgarian "the manuscripts don't burn." This is worth recalling, at least, because history does not burn. It cannot be altered, or altered, by any very large consensus. Change, deny history we can't at least because it's written by generations, it's written by work, it's written by patience, it's written by faith. After all, history is the genotype of the nation. In view of that, I could no longer remind myself of these attempts by some consensus to reconcile or change something in the history of a nation, since it seems that the issue is exhausted. But I remind you, for that reason, because I repeat the second time in our newly elected parliament, which is in the courtyard of the 21st century. In the 20th century, we witnessed how we tried to deny the existence of government genetics or cybernetics. And we know how it ended. Obviously, in the 21st century, the same rakes should not be attacked by our officials; evidently, in the 21st century, we should take experience, including government, what is better, more progressive, the main one, which is explained by the historical experience of society. That's why history is written not by the prime minister, not even by the prime minister, not even by the presidents. History is written by the people. And it takes a lot of dignity for each of them: both the Vice-Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister, and the President, and the deputy, and the citizen of society to live in this time of history, so that history will give him an adequate assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who signed up for the Vizne have spoken. I'd also like to draw your attention to the following. Regarding the decision handed down to the MPs, it was announced by Deputy Garmash, a situation that occurred in the coal industry. I propose that the relevant fuel and energy committee be assigned to study these issues and make appropriate suggestions. What I want to say is that this week, the Head of the Supreme Council sent an appropriate letter to the head of the government, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinacha, about a situation that occurred in the coal industry. It is suggested that we consider the situation, take urgent action, and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some announcements. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing Ukraine's National Deputies of the departure of the Gorbato Valeri Mironovich, Francis Igor Anatolievich and Karenenka Alexander Mihajlovich from the "One Ukraine" faction and their membership in the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Honorable National MPs, June 22, 1941, a tragic day of our history, began a war that resulted in the torment and suffering of our people, many people. On behalf of the Supreme Council, allow me once again to draw the attention of all state and nonstate agencies, organizations, to keep veterans in mind and to provide appropriate assistance. May there never be such a tribulation on our earth as we have experienced. All the questions raised today have been considered. The next session will take place at 10:00 p.m. on July 2. And now I'm calling our session closed. Good-bye.
