ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We will continue our work. Please enable the system login. [[16:01:32]] Registered -370 There are 370 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, we had foreseen that at 4:00 a.m., we would decide on the election of judges. They're invited, so let's take a look at this. Reporter: Head of Legal Policy Subcommittee Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak Victor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy at its meeting on July 3, this year, discussed the joint submission by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the election of judges. And according to article 85, paragraph 27, of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the judges of the following persons on an indefinite basis. I'm drawing your attention to this decision under number 12 98, and notice this same decision. I'll give you your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u3	Or maybe the draft decree, let the national MPs watch it so they don't read it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u4	There's no project. Someone who doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u5	The project is given to you all, dear colleagues. Everyone's got a project. Please, let's read the names, maybe you'll have some remarks to make right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u6	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of Volin County - Vassil Anatoliyovich, Svistun Olga Vasilovna; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region - Tereshchenka Igor Vitaliyovich; the Court of Appeal of IvanoFrankiv District - Vladik Jaroslav Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd - Speech of Volodymyr Pavlovich; The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region - Galan Nina Mikolayevna, Kravchenko Tetjana Dmitrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region - Gradovski Jury Mihajlovich, Kosgor Hanna Olegovna; The Court of Appeal of the Sumskie District - Demchenka Mikol Aleksandrovitch, Runov Vladimir Yuriovich; The Court of Appeal of Kharkiv County, Kuril Alexander Mikolaiovich; Herson County Court of Appeal - Baule Nadia Mikhailnovna, Dzakaryan Katharina Grigorovna, Orlovska Natalija Volodymyrovna, Pisleegina Ludmina Mikhailnovna and Tsukanova Inna Viktorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicke District - Matushyak Mikola Stepanović, Harchuk Viktor Mihajlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region - Sharkenko Svetlana Alexiyevna, Smagluk Rajis Ivanovna; the local Black Sea District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Nadženko Vasil Vasilovich; the local district rail court of Simferopol - Adamenka Olen Grigorovna; the local Cherniewice District Court of the Vinnitsk Region, Fajduk Vitali Vasilovich; The local Kivertsi District Court of Volin County - Daniluk Anastasia Vasilovna; The local Lutsky City Court of Volinska Oblast - Ywastu Lolita Volodymyrna; The local Nikopolsky District Court of the Dnipropetrovski Obalstevo, Sergey Mikolaiovich; the local Amvrossov district court of the Donetsk Region - Smolnjakova Aleksandra Alexiyovich; The local Wallnachsky District Court of the Donetsk Region is Romamov Valery Ivanovich; The local Débaltsk City Court of the Donetsk Region, Cuchmenco Larissa Anatolovna; The local Provincial City Court of the Donetsk Region, Andrew Viktor Vasilovich. Stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u7	Just a minute. The local Wallowing District Court of the Donetsk Region, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u8	Kuchmenko Larissa Anatolylna, right? Yeah, I'll tell you. Which one, Jerjindsky? Andrew Victor Vasilovich, right? Do you have a question? Dear colleagues! Let's so, I call you, as you note, let's see in the end. Do you want to do it now?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! We agreed on it this way. They're called names now. If there's a warning about a name, we exclude it from the list, then we're considering a specific candidate. In this case, Andrew Victor Vasilovich, right? Let's get off the list. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u10	Shane Ludmila Dmitrovna. This is the local city court in the Donetsk region. Local Kirov City Court of the Donetsk Region - Butovo Mikolaajovich; The local Constantine City Court of the Donetsk Region - Hercica Rostislav Valeriovich, Parthenyuk Sergey Volodymyrovich; the local Starobesov District Court of the Donetsk Region - Powerful Viktor Volodymirovich; the local District Court of Beloon, Donetsk - Rebrova Sergija Alexiyovich; the local Petrovsky District Court of Donetsk, Miroshnicka Vadim Vasilovich; the local Central District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region - Zajchenka Sergija Volodymirovich; the local Andrušov district court of the Žitomir district - Andruskević Sergio Zinovyovich; the local Lubarsky District Court of the Zitomir Region - Polomarczuk Vasil Mikolaiovich; the local Ovrutsky District Court of the Žitomir Region - Kaputinsky Mikhailovich; local The Royal District Court of Žitomir - Major Grigori Ivanovich; The local Berdian City Court of Zaporozhye Region - Domashenko Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u11	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u13	Housekeeping, there's a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u14	Okay, okay, I did. And Javorowski, please, for what? All right, I've noticed. Local Bobrinecki District Court of Kirovograd - Babić Oleg Petrovich; the local Kirov district court of Kirovgrad - Mogilno Oleg Pavlovich and Solopov Jurija Alexiyovich; The local Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk, Paulanko Tetjan Ivanovna; the local Preval Regional Court of the Lugansk Region - Jurchenka Anatolia Volodymirovich; Local Rowenkov City Court of Luhansk Region - Vladichenko Sergey Volodymyrovich and Seminouk Tetjan Borisovna; The local Berezan District Court of the Mikolayev Region, Madaya Stepan Ivanovich; The local factory district court of Mikolayeva - Cornishov Tetjana Valentinovna; the local Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva - Irina Stanislavna; the local Kremenchuck District Court of Poltava - Kuznietsov Andrija Volodymirovic; the local Lubensky District Court of the Poltava District of Georgievska Viácheslav Dmitrovic; The local Mirgorod City Court of Poltava County - Kucin Valentina Mikolayevna; The local Horola District Court of Poltava, Lisichenko Larissa Mikolayevna; the local Auto-Zavodsk district court of the city of Kremenchuk Poltavsk oblast - Plachotnika Grigori Mikolaiovich; the local Krukov district court of the city of Kremenchuk Poltavsk district - Demidenka Igor Aleksandrovič, Djedecko Ivan Ivanovich; The local Ravenske City Court of the Plains Region - Kovalova Igor Mikolaiovich, Kuzokonya Petrovic, Melnik Yuri Mikolaiovich; the local Zalishte district court of Ternopil district, Dudjak Stepan Vasilievitch; the local Ternopil district court of Terebovljan, Bojk Ivan Ivanovich; The local Barwinki District Court of the Kharkiv Region - Kopetev Jurija Anatoliyovich; The local Veliberlutsky District Court of Kharkiv Region - Rikova Mikola Ivanovich; the mst. Dergachev District Court of Kharkiv County - Kalmykov Ludmila Konstantinovna; The local Kigchiov District Court of Kharkiv County, Ribalchenko Raisu Ivanovna; the local Pervomaj district court of Kharkiv district - Solonevich Fedor Volodymirovich; the local Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv District - Bershowa Hennady Evgenovich; The local district court of Pankeyev Vasil Mikolaiovich; the local Danube District Court of the Hmelnicke District - Marinczak Alexander Mikolayovich; the local Letician District Court of the Hmelnitsk Region - Kurnos Svetlana Alexiyevna; the local Uman City Court of Cherkas - Oretán Vadim Anatolyevich; the local Kozeletsky District Court of the Chernigiv Region - Briginetz Maria Mikolayevna; the local Nosov district court of Chernigiv district - Kiriev Oleg Vasilovich; the local Ripkin district court of Chernigiv district - Kovtun Vasil Ivanovich; The local Talalai district court of Chernigiv County, Babich Alexander Ivanovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Southern Region - Stankewich Vladimir Andriyovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region - Yakovlev Mikhail Leonidovich; The military court of the Mikolaiwijski garrison, Grudjak Andrija Volodymirovich, and the military court of the Hmelnicki garrison, Palinczak Alexander Mikolaiovich. Now, for those of you who are called, about whom we need to make decisions right now, perhaps separately. Let's maybe the ones that don't raise any questions, let's vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the draft ruling is on the vote. Dear colleagues, questions? Please. National MP Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u16	Victor Lavrentiovich, please tell me if there's been a mistake in the selection of the judiciary's personnel, when we, in particular you're a specialist, as you look at it, and your committee, when we're offering judges pensioners -- former police officers? He's spent his whole life catching-- doing one job, retired, and now he's a judge. He looks at this man like he's a criminal now, and we can't remake him anymore. And that's why I have one more. He retires, and then he finds, so to speak, an extension of his retirement age in court. Is it time to put an end to this practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u17	I think we need to take a closer look at this issue with the selection of judicial personnel, especially, of course, right now. And I think that both the subcommittee and the committee will now take a closer look at those candidates that will be offered both by the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. Of course, when you speak of such facts, we cannot generally say that this person is unworthy. We need to be clear about the situation. Because it's an experience of legal work, of practical work. And this person, maybe all of her age, she dreamed of becoming a judge and she worked there normally. We have to deal with every particular case. But the fact that the judicial frame is not to be picked up in general is that, say, the spear, we have to work closely with it on a case-by-case basis. And we'll also try to do everything we can to make sure that both the subcommittee and the committee work separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u18	Thank you. Honourable People's Deputies, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1298 on the election of judges, except for two candidates. My last name is Andrew Viktor Vasilovich, as well as Housewoman Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please vote in favour of this order. Please vote. [[16:15:39]] For 299 For - 299, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, now relative. Yeah, maybe a question first? What questions are before Houseman Yuri Mikolaiovich's candidacy? Where's Domoshenko Yuri Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u19	He's standing by the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, on the balcony by the microphone. Who has the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u21	Yes, there are questions, and Javorowski, and so are they.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u22	Deputy Yavorowski, you had a question for Houseman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorovsky district, and Zholkowski, Lvivščina I have a question for Yuri Mikolaiovich Domoshenko, is he here, present? I won't recognize you, because I've never seen you before, and as a man I have no claim to you and could not have. But today the question is whether you will be chosen to be the ruler of human destiny in Berdiansk or not. I'm forced as Head of the Committee on Radio and Television and Freedom of Speech to say this in the presence of the national MPs and candidates in the national court, to say so. I was approached by a large group of journalists from Berdjansk. There's been a discussion of your candidacy, it's very normal, in a time-style way, out loud. You've been criticized by some of the journalists. You're right off the bat without being elected, and they're already threatening to pick me, and then we'll talk to you. My hand, and I think every honest man, the MP sitting here, won't come up to vote for such a judge. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u24	Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u25	Can I answer that? You've been misinformed. I didn’t threaten him, but we had a conversation on the note he published, and I didn’t publish the note properly. In this regard, I even went to the court, which in its decision satisfied my lawsuit. Because I spoke to him on the phone and he illegally recorded me and distributed our conversation, I had already received mine. And I don't want to survive what I've been through. A large group, I doubt it. It's one or two journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u26	Thank you. National MP Bronnikov, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u27	I also don't have any personal claims in Yuri Nikolaevich, and I don't really know him. But I do know that Yuri Nikolaevich has not been confirmed twice in the session hall. I know that in 1999, after the dismissal of one of the judges, more than 600 civil cases and 50 criminal cases remained pending, many of whom were six months and more detained without procedural action. In this regard, I have a question for Yuri Nikolaevich. Why didn't the region support you after those actions as a candidate for an indefinite judge there? And why are these issues still not resolved in the relationship with the defendants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u28	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u29	What I got out of the question, I'll answer that. In fact, in 1999 a judge was released. Well, I didn't fire her. In fact, she was left with a lot of pending matters. These matters are now almost all under consideration as far as I know. The fact that the Supreme Council didn't choose me twice wasn't my fault. The point is, I protected people for 23 years, and when my claims come out, I can’t protect myself because I don’t know what to do. Last time, a claim was made for bringing one company into a state registry. And I'm a judge, I'm chosen as a judge, and basically the question is, those who were given don't refer to me and the work as judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u30	Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, you ask me what the committee's view is, the committee's got, I'll inform you now. The committee received material on this nature. He did business, did not repair the court’s premises, did not profit from the computers transferred to the court. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine established this meeting, confirmed that Domoshenko's wife is providing photo services to citizens. The wife is not him. The judge does not do business, the computers are made, and the court’s premises within the allocated funding are repaired. Next. On January 17, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the initiative of the national deputy Baburin, entrusted the Committee on Legal Policy with an incorrect conversation on the phone by Domoshenko with the editor of the newspaper "Berdjansk Business" Billous, about what was going on. The question was considered at the meeting of the qualified panel of judges of the local and appeal courts of the Zaporez Region on February 8, 2002 for violating professional ethics during the telephone conversation Domoshenko was declared a rave. However, the Supreme Council of Justice annulled the decision. The committee on the spot had already considered all these comments about him again and concluded that this was not sufficient reason to recommend him as a judge. Therefore, the committee’s decision to recommend that the judge be elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u32	Thank you, no further questions before this candidature? Shall we put it to a vote then? Honorary colleagues hold the vote for Houseman Yuri Mikolaiovich. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[16:23:32]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Andrew Victor Vasilovich. Please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u33	Yes. What questions are there for me?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u34	National MP Kravchenko, your question, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u35	I have two questions. Dear Viktor Vasilevich, please tell me how to explain the following in your biography. For 10 years, you've been an investigator for the investigative department of the internal affairs department, then you've become a lawyer for the Jerzynska Shatha, a student of the murderer, and you've become a lawyer for the Jerzynska Department, and then you've become a judge of the city court. That's the first question. And the second question. Didn't those circumstances make you ban the 10th April rally in the city of Dzirksk following the elections held by the entire left-wing opposition? It is because there were representatives of fairy tales and communists and socialists and our Ukraine. Everyone wanted to hold a city rally after the election. Prohibited by a court order. And the next. On one of the 608 ballots, everything was proven, the papers were all, he refused. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u36	Deputies! Answering the question, I explained that I had completed a higher investigative school in Volgograd in due course and had been working at the Provincial Investigation Department as an investigator after finishing school. After six years of work, I was released, and as I enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u37	It's a mining profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u38	It's a mining profession. I worked at the mine for a year, and then I worked at the bank as a lawyer. And when I was offered to work in court, I went to work as a judge. After the rally was banned. It's a law-abiding rally. After the rally, it should be warned at the right time. This was not done, and the rally was forbidden by law. Any other questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u39	Yeah, no more questions? Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u40	First of all, I want to tell the judge that the rally is not a warning, it's a message to the city administration. This is the first time. And secondly, does he think that his making such a decision, if we know that holding rallying, caring, demonstrations is a constitutional right, is he admitting his mistake even now after making the decision he made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u41	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u42	I don't understand the question. Warning: The rally was not scheduled at the same time. And that's why I made the decision legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u43	What's your last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u44	Please give me a name.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u45	The Bulba People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u46	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I am no longer referring to a candidate as a judge, but to all the national deputies. A similar judge in Poltava tried me eight times for organizing a rally. I mean, basically my constitutional right was questionable. And it was only after the intervention of the Supreme Court that all these decisions were overturned. That's why he doesn't feel like he's still a judge, so let's go to the mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u47	People's MP Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really know the man who claims to be a judge, but the answer-the-comment statement that someone has failed to submit an application for a rally means that Mr. Claimant has not studied the basic, basic for his profession, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which explained that the application should be early, at least an hour before the rally. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court and not by the judge, and it is not up to Mr. Claimant to determine when I, as a citizen of Ukraine, or a resident of Djerjinsk, should do so. I think that the whole opposition must press the buttons in the same way in time so that the applicant does not become a judge, does not decide, does not prohibit the constitutional right of citizens to express their moods, including protestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u49	It's a speech, not a question, obviously. National MP Borszewski, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u50	Borschevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine. I join my colleague Lucenko and today we have learned the professional level of human training that seeks to decide the fate of others. His professional training is totally out of line with the job he wants to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the election of Judge Andrew Viktor Vasilovich. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:31:01]] For-123 For $123, the decision is not made. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the judges who are elected to this office on an untimely basis and wish them fruitful work and all manner of things. Those candidatures that are not supported, I mean Andrew, as well as Domoshenko, we're sending for further consideration on the committee. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! The Committee also considered the submission by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the election of Friggin Yuri Antonovich as judge of the local Ordjonikidiv City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region and decided not to support this submission and not to recommend to the Supreme Council that Friggin Yuri Antonovich be elected as judge on an indefinite basis for such reasons. During the 1982 - 2001 period, Friggin Yuri Antonovich served as a judge at the local city court and was recommended for the selection of an indefinite trial. On November 16, 2000, however, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not elect Frigin as a judge in connection with a criminal offence. Judgement by Frigin, a convicted citizen of Babayev, for rape to a conditioned degree of punishment, was overturned. The sentence against the citizen of Baran, who caused serious bodily harm to the victim, was annulled with regard to the citizen of Sisov, who was sentenced to a fine of fines for robbery and for demanding the victim’s personal belongings. Friggin Yuri Antonovich sentenced a white man for possession of drugs to conditional punishment, even though he had been tried seven times before. The verdict's off. The majority of those present at the committee meeting concluded that Judge Friggin was deliberately violating criminal law, so it was decided not to recommend Friggin Yuri Antonovich as a judge on an untimely basis. You have the Supreme Council's ruling on the election of Friggin Yuri Antonovich, 1299. Please make a decision on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of 1299 on the election of Judge Frigin Yuri Antonovich as judge of the local Ordjonikidziv city judge of the Dnipropetrov region is pending. Please identify yourself with the opinion of the committee. [[16:34:24]] For-38 In 38, no decision is taken. To the committee for further study. Thank you. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u54	Order number 1300. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part 1, of article 121, of the Constitution of Ukraine, we invite the Supreme Council to elect judges as judges on an indefinite basis the judge of Ukraine’s Supreme Economic Court, Zvigun Valentina Leonidivna. Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal Gerasimenko Irina Mikolayovna, Logwinenka Andrija Alexandrovich, Netles Mikola Pavlovich, Pavel Pavlovich of Pavlov, Chohu Love Vasilovna. The Kyiv Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of Anatolia Anatolyevich Lviv's Court of Appeal Galuszko Natalija Anatolievna, Spirit of Yavroslav Vasilovich, Jurchenk Jaroslav Aleksandrovitch. Odessa’s Court of Appeal Lipchansky Nadia Volodymyrný, Savitsky Jacob Fedorovich. Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal - Latina Oleg Anatoliyevich, Lysenko Valentina Anatoliyevna Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal, Barbashov Silva Viktorovna, Buryan Svetlana Sergiyevna, Kuhar Vasil Ivanovich, Tverdhlib Anatolia Fedorovich. The Lord’s Court of the Winnitsk Region is Baltaka Oleg Alexiyovich. The Lord's Court of Volin County, the Solomon of Ludmila Ivanovna. Ivashkovic Irina Vitaliyevna, Rogach Larissa Ivanovna. Master's Court of the Sumskie District - Zraževsky Yuri Alexiyovich, Malafei's Irina Volodymyr. Kramar Sergio Ivanovich, head of the Hmeljna district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, you have no objection? Shall we put it to the vote? I'm betting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges at number 1300. Please vote. [[16:36:46]] For 322 For 322, the decision is made. [[Applause]] We'll consider your applause our congratulations. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u56	There is a draft decree for the release of judges. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, paragraphs 6 and 9, of part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 43 of the Law on the Status of Judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is required to decide on the release of judges. Judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Mikkiwski Mikola Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Mikola Pavlovich worked for over 25 years in the Supreme Economic Court, the first deputy of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u57	I would like to welcome Greeks and thank Mikola Pavlovich for his fruitful work on the committee’s proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u58	Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Niezerski Nina Alexiyevna in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Burlak Anatolia Mikolayovich in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Zickal Petra Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation. A health condition that prevents you from continuing to perform your duties. Judge of the Court of Appeal of Lviv district of Volosin Mikoli Grigorovitch in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Court of Appeal of Odessa, Kenzerské Love Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local Tomakov court of the Dnipropetrov region of Siberia, Vasil Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local IvanoFrankiv District Court of Vujtsí Vasil Volodymyrovich in connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of his duties. Judge of the local District Court of Kyiv, Burjak Volodymyr Trofimovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local Nedrigail district court of the Suma district of Gubarev Fedor Ivanovich in connection with the achievement of 65 years. Judge of the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Bertnikov Tetjana Mikolayovna in connection with the filing of a claim at his own request. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! Any thoughts, any comments? None. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u60	My colleague, the kind Viktor Lavrentievich, gave me a place to stay. Dear National Deputies! I would like to begin by congratulating the presence here of the first Deputy Arbitration Court of Ukraine, Greek Nikolai Pavlović, who gave 25 years honestly to the judicial system of Ukraine. It's very important because he's here. And the second. I applaud you, Nikolai Pavlovich, because I can assure you that he is a decent man. Thanks to the courts, today we have the opportunity to sit in the Supreme Council. And he's a model of a good decent judge at all. And the second. We are rudely dealing with the first Vice-President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Please finish, but we're voting. Complete, please, I beg of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u62	And the second. I'm asking you not to vote for his resignation because he's on leave. In at least 25 years, let us allow a person to be on vacation and then ask about his release and his reward because he deserved it. Except for the applause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a draft Supreme Council ruling. For the reasons of the National MP Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u64	Thank you. I have to say that yesterday, on the committee, we considered the candidate of the Greek Michael Pavlovich, his retirement in relation to his age, and the Committee’s opinion was divided. Sadly, most of the committee felt that it could be considered. I would like to make a proposal today -- this is my personal proposal -- to separate the Greek Michael Pavlovich from his release and wait until autumn. Indeed, we do not want to violate existing legislation because it is officially on vacation. I think we can do this in September and do it by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do you support this proposal to make a candidate? Don't we have to vote on that? You don't have to. Dear colleagues! Please vote on the draft ruling of the Supreme Council on the release of judges, taking into account the proposals of the National Deputy ononenk, supported by the National Deputy of Chernivetsky. Please vote. [[16:43:08]] For 265 For -265. Decision taken. Let us thank the judges whom we have released today by our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u66	Thank you to the judge, everyone who's been released. Thank you for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Rabbit Vladimir Vladimirovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work. This is document number 1302. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this project, because the committee must work fully, and today there are nine deputies after the National MP Medvedchuk has been appointed. Please be supportive. [[16:44:13]] For 326 For 326. Decision taken. You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Act "On the Establishment of Honorary Names to the Air Force of Ukraine" with the President's proposals for repealing the Act of 22/06/2001. Reporter: Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Anatholiy Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 24 May 2001, the Ukrainian Act "On the Establishment of Honorary Names to the Air Force of Ukraine" and to amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukrainian State Prizes". It is noted that they cannot be signed and cancelled. The President's remarks are as follows. These laws set out six honorary titles for airmen in Ukraine. In particular, "Deserved Ukrainian Air Force Flyer", "Deserved Military Stormman", "Deserved Pilot", "Deserved Storm Tester." In this regard, changes are made to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards. It should be noted that according to its principle, honorary titles established are marks of class rather than of State rewards. They are rewarded by citizens of flying professions regardless of their narrow specialization, which is not in line with the national character of honor. It should be said that this will result in a wide variety of honours and a decline in the social prestige of honors as part of the system of national awards. If you look at the structure of the Ukrainian State Prize Act, you'll see that the introduction of these honours and the inclusion of them in the article of the tenth Ukraine will create a sharp imbalance between the sectoral titles that are established, the honours, and the presence of the listed names that are proposed to be implemented by this law. It should also be noted that there are many legal contradictions in this Law. In particular, the standard of part two of this article is that the honorary title of the flight fleet is the State’s extravagant rewards. Since the Ukrainian Act on Ukrainian State Prizes, the honorary title has already been attributed to the State Prize. And the position of this section on the right of the President of Ukraine to assign honors once a year to the day of aviation narrows the rights of the President of Ukraine given to him by article 106, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, whose head of state is not limited to the number of awards. It should also be said that part two and part three of the fourth Law does not correspond to article four of the Law on State Rewards, since the approval of statutes and regulations on State rewards is referred to the powers of the President rather than the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the two laws on the establishment of honours for the airline composition of Ukraine and the amendment of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, which is, according to your order, the President proposes to cancel the daily laws 0905 and 0906-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u69	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Can I see you on the board for five minutes? National MP Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u70	Anatoly Pavlovich, first of all, I think we should vote for each document separately. That's my offer, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u71	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Anatoly Pavlovich, speaking of such an offer, did you not think that we were losing our professional core all the time in the state? On the one hand, military pilots cannot train, and you know why there is no gasoline and so on and so forth. And they're coming. Perhaps these honorary titles will somehow hold a professional core, especially in a flying warehouse. Why do we say, "No, bad, no, parliament doesn't think so?" This was well considered by the committees, and colleagues in this room were welcome. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u73	Thank you for asking. The point is, and I would like to stress in person that the introduction of honorary titles by the Ukrainian State Prize Act is based on a sectoral principle. In this article 10 of the Law on State Rewards.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u74	Well, pilots don't go in other fields. The flyers are just, you know, flying.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u75	One minute, I'm asking you to give me a chance to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u76	There's no such thing as a mini-flight.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u77	National Deputy Carmazin, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u78	Thank you. I would also like to point out that there are six airmen here. Which is clearly dissonant with the list of honorary titles established by law. It's clearly dissonant, and I think here that these changes to the law are such that they destroy the structure of the data of honors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u79	National MP Rudzkowski. And we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u80	Please pass the word Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u81	People's deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u82	Dear Anatoly Petrovich! To some extent today, when this bill was passed with the President's proposals, you look at the proposals, and you wonder, maybe because the more he comes to Parliament from one sector or another, the more he comes to Parliament, the more he adds an appropriate profession. There were more agrarians coming to Parliament, more agrarians being rewarded. Today, there is such a branch. Stormman, tomorrow's a tester. How do you view sharing, for example, with a Deserved Doctor in the professions of dentists, neurologists, and so forth? Would it not be a laughingstock if such changes were constantly made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u83	Thank you. I fully share your position, Your Honor Valentina Petrovna, and I want to say that we have another law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, which we will consider now, which also applies to such delineation of honours. Thank you. I just wanted to point out one more thing, that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which works in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, shares that position as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u84	Thank you. Your time is up. National MP Vitaly Mikolayovich Olujko, head of the State Building and Local Self - Government Subcommittee, will act as a coreporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u85	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, discussed this issue on June 18, this year at its meeting, the President's proposals for these bills. We have also considered the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that these laws cannot be signed and repealed. This conclusion was unanimously accepted by the committee and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine repeal these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's no need to keep talking. I'm voting on a motion by the committee to repeal Bill No. 0905. Please support the committee's proposal. [[16:54:37]] For 169 In factions, please give. Dear colleagues, we must then re-work the documents, send the consideration: 0905, 0906, 0906-1. Is there a motive for voting? For reasons of vote, the People’s Deputy Martinyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u87	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can't send everyone out because we voted 1, he didn't get the required number of votes. Let's go through each of the laws further apart, because they didn't all vote. There was only one vote, but others may have the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u88	I fully agree with you, Your Honor, I say that logic requires that we consider, or three, but now that this law has not passed, we postpone it. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 22 June 2001, is being considered. Do we need to listen to our reporters? None. I'll put it to a vote. National MP Bespalov, please cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u89	Boris Bespaly, "Our Ukraine", the Committee on State Building. It's a profile committee on this issue. I am very sorry, Your Honor, but in this case, after we have voted on the President's proposal, we have to vote against the veto, in accordance with the Rules, and according to the Constitutional Court's decision. In this case, there was a veto. We have to put the veto on the vote. The President's proposal has not passed, the veto is still being voted on. If the veto goes through this law, it goes to the President's signature. If the veto does not proceed independently of the first vote, this law is withdrawn. Thank you for your attention and ask you to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question that the President had violated and made a proposal he did not make his comments to the law, he suggested that the law be repealed as such, which is unacceptable. I'm betting, my fellow Members, on the vote of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the law of 22.06.2001, number 0906. The committee's proposal to accept the President's proposals to repeal the decision to adopt the law. Please vote. [[16:57:49]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions. National MP Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm still pointing out to you that Deputy Bespali was absolutely right. The President's proposal for all three of these laws, which form one package, is to repeal these laws, i.e. to reverse the previous decision. This is his proposal, that is, the essence of the President's veto is made up of this proposal. This proposal did not receive an appropriate number of votes, i.e. 226. You should therefore put to the vote the issue of overcoming the veto. And if the veto fails, the law is automatically removed, otherwise it is not known what the fate of the law is. He cannot remain in such suspended condition. So I ask you very much to put to the vote the question of overcoming this veto. If it does not pass, the law itself will be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! I suggest you consider this proposal. Let's now vote on the third law of rejection. Then we'll go back and vote for the veto. Is there no objection? I am voting on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Law of 22.06.2001, registration number 0906-1. The committee proposes to support the President's proposals to repeal the decision on the adoption of the law. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[17:00:05]] For 158. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote number 0905 is the Ukrainian Act on the Establishment of Honorary Names to the Air Force of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 22 June 2001. It's about voting on the President's veto. Please make up your mind. [[17:00:48]] For-127 For - 127, no decision taken. The factions, please. Puts to the vote document number 0906. The laws of Ukraine amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the law of 22.06.2001. There is a vote on the issue of overcoming the President's veto on this issue. Please vote. [[17:01:25]] For-36 In 36, no decision is taken. Puts to the vote document number 0906-1. The laws of Ukraine amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the law of 22.06.2001. I'm betting on a vote to defeat the President's veto. Please make up your mind. [[17:02:00]] For-32 For 32, no decision is taken. I'll have the factions, please. Dear colleagues! Your consideration is on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 02.03. The year 2002 was one of This is document number 0911. Reporter - Minister of Finance of Ukraine Igor Olegovich Jusko Please, Igor Olegovich. People’s deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about making changes to article 15 of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act. I'm going to give a very brief reminder of what this is all about. In fact, the payoff is broken, the payout is allowed. Whether it is proposed to allow payment of salary without paying the pension fund’s bills, social bills, or so forth. This, of course, cannot be accepted, because it violates the existing system and creates a great danger, it violates the system and social protection, and it disrupts the income-generating system of local budgets. It's pretty obvious. I don't think there's time to waste, there's no point in wasting session time now. The president made proposals for the bill to be withdrawn, a rejection. Ministry of Finance Supports Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u94	Thank you. For questions, please sign in. On the board, please. National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist faction of Ukraine. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u95	Thank you. Igor Olegovich, frankly, was long ago, perhaps not everyone remembers. So it would be that you told more details about what it means to pay the salary without counting to the Pension Fund. The pension fund does not come from a salary but from a payroll fund. And you know that this is done by accountants of economic operators or institutions, organizations to pay wages. So I think you might want to tell us a little bit more about what the point is and what the President's proposal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u96	Thank you. It's about paying your own wages first. So if an entrepreneur, an employer or an enterprise lacks the funds to pay the pension fund and so on, you can pay the salary instead of paying the pension fund. This disrupts the existing system and it's unacceptable. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u97	People's Deputy Ioffe, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and of the "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u98	Please pass the word to Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u99	People's Deutere Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u100	Thank you. I think that the situation today with the budget, and in general, you had a conversation with the Prime Minister yesterday, so we really support the situation that has arisen today. Why? Because the solution to today’s issues is because of the increased workload on salary payments, and so on, it only reduces jobs. Your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u101	Thank you for asking, although frankly I did not fully understand him. The point is that it is impossible to break payment of the one-minute job and the counting and counting of pension funds and social funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u102	National Deputy Grachev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u103	Rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u104	People's Deputy Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u105	Dear Igor Olegovic, that it would certainly be better to ask the question of wage charges, and perhaps today it would be right to consider this issue, today, to pay a hundred thousand wages, it would take 200,000 to count on that salary. As a result, you understand why half and who pay and do it in envelopes or other ways, in the form of material aid and other tricks. But I am interested in the specific issue of this bill. What is the amount of the delay today, the non-payment of wages, and what would the budget be worth if we made such a decision? How much will the budget go missing and on what funds, how much will we miss local funds and how much will we miss in the central budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u106	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to remind you that just today, before the opening of the 16th session, the Committee on Finance and Banks has considered as many as two bills -- the income tax from citizens who are talking about, at least in government, a certain amount of reduction in the burden on the payroll fund. That's the answer. So this is the norm of another law. As far as the question is concerned, I can say that no one can do such calculations. Because it's hard to tell how much the salary will be paid without paying for social funds and pensions. So today the total wage in the economy is about 2 billion. That's the number I heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u107	National Deputy Stoyan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u108	Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law has been passed in the last Supreme Council, harmonized unions, employers, and government. And over 300 deputies voted for it. But the Ministry of Finance, if you'll excuse me, tipped the President off the veto, he said so himself, and vetoed that the salary should be the first payment. Today is the first five payments, and the sixth is the salary. So today, 70 percent of businesses cannot pay their wages, and the debt is several billion. I'd like to ask, Your Honor Minister of Finance, if we can't now overcome the veto, how will you help repay the debts of the people who have worked and the debts make up billions of bracelets, and how will you continue to pay?Oh, my God! If we don't beat the veto, there's going to be another problem with paying wages. So give an answer to what other pay-back mechanism is and why you're against making the pay-first pay, along with the payment to other funds, no one says that then, but pay, then everything else. So first of all, I'm asking the question, and second of all, the honourable national MPs, please, this is the position of all the unions, this is the position of UCP, this is the position of the government, to overcome the veto. We have to settle with the people on the payroll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u109	Thank you for asking. However, I would have asked the hall not to be misled because it's not working. That is, an entrepreneur today, after the filing of the file, determines where to send the money first. And this is what we know, this is the norm of the Payments Order Act before the local budget and the trust funds and so on. To date, there are no restrictions on pay schedules in the first place. And I'm asking you to take that into account. And the point is that it's offered to pay cash to people without paying their pension and without paying their social insurance. I have a question for you: how do I pay people's pensions? Is that not a priority?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u110	Thank you, Igor Olegovich, your time is up. Please, thank you, take your seats. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, this Hall has repeatedly emphasized the need for further improvement of Ukrainian labour legislation. Today, the problem of developing a new job is acute. The Labour Code, and yet you and I are forced to fill the gaps in the legal field with the basics of labor law on pay. The point is, we've already talked about this, and over the years of reconstruction, especially in the years of reform, we've destroyed the labor motivation system, and it's broken down by pay, on the one hand, it doesn't ensure the normal reproduction of the labor force, and on the other hand, it often increases independently of the manufacturer's efficiency. There are unacceptable imbalances not only between the branches but also inside. Above all, today’s most basic social climate, the social climate is negatively affected by a civilised state’s debt of wages. Actually, Bill 0911 and the veto, I think we're dealing with some kind of misunderstanding. Because article 43 of the Constitution provides for the right to receive timely remuneration for work. Article 48 of the Constitution provides for the right to a worthy standard of living for himself, for members of his family. And one more thing. In a recent letter from the President of Ukraine, "The Strategy for Poverty" and it envisions the main national task of major importance: overcoming debt on wages. I'll tell you, in the last month, May, the debt increased by 47 million. And the main thing is, MPs, remember these trips to you people! An enterprise pays no wages, a person applies for a court order. The executive letter is not executed because on the other hand, there is a lawsuit of the Tax Administration and all the property in the so - called tax bond. And in the meantime, as long as property is taxed, people don't get money, in a month, two, three. There's no concrete space left of the company. And then people come to you, to us, and they complain to me about what to do next: "What, do we have to create a new fund?" I think in this case we're dealing with some stubborn corporate interest, or the Ministry of Finance, or the Home Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. So the committee at its meeting unanimously, we have people of different factions, put the veto to the vote on Bill 0911. Let me remind you a little bit about what's going on. It is proposed to amend article 15 of the Wages Act. In part three of article 15, the words "after payment of compulsory payments" are deleted. We have to give primate priority to pay. Remember, in this room yesterday, a famous scientist named Pavlovsky, a national deputy of Ukraine, a scientist named Cherniak, master of Mother, director of a huge Kiev plant. This, indeed, yes, we should put everything in place. First there must be pay, then there must be pay. Please, the committee is offering to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you understood the question? If there is one, please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u113	Thank you. Right now, you feel like you're recently out of the electoral battalions, you're talking like that. But you put all the problems in the same basket, and you have to talk about the substance of the bill. If we take those words off, what you're saying, I understand that we'll give a certain priority to pay. But the pensioners will be out of pensions. You know how much we fought to keep the Pension Fund from being deficient. Thank God he's very professional today. Three-and-a-half percent should be paid off by the pay fund. That's a lot of pressure, I agree. But more than 60 percent of the fund can be spent on wages. If we take this down, maybe 80-90 percent of the fund will be spent, and the pensioners will get what? What a setup this is, we're imbalanced completely by the pension system. Don't let her be perfect, there won't be any. I think the President is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u114	Look, please, you have a bill in order of day 0908. It's called debt repayment. And this mechanism that you're talking about, all the warnings this bill takes away. Sadly, they were broken up in the daytime. Now it's 09011, and after six or ten bills there'll be 0908.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u115	National Deputy Konovaluk, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The distinguished rapporteur is, in fact, a problem that is now said to be sufficiently serious and relevant. If you remember in the past, we've considered amending the law on enforcement and implementation. And they tried to regulate issues related to the priority of debt repayment, which related to the bankruptcy procedure. We must also understand that budgetary issues are also socially significant today. And since 1 July, we have raised the minimum wage to 165 bracelets. That is why it makes sense today, and whether the Committee has considered it, since there are rules of existing legislation, which also regulate these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u117	Valery Illich, I won't go into political economy. I'll just say one thing. The Committee is deplored that it has adopted a bill without insufficient financial justification for the law, and it seems that such imbalances and questions arise: "What about pensioners and other matters?" I've referred to 0908, I'll report it here. It is the debtors. Allow those who have debt to pay their wages and then the budget. I don't think it'll save the budget for an enterprise that's lying there and barely breathing. They're going to cut him to pieces anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u118	National MP Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u119	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to address the Ukrainian national MPs first. What is the point of this bill? First, ask the question and legally secure the payment primarily of wages, then of compulsory payments. I'm addressing the vice president's factions. You businessmen were business leaders in the past. You see, for a stable business organization for workers, miners first have to pay their wages. If the salary is paid, then businesses will work and budgets will be filled. And I'm asking you to support the veto, because we understand that the president must protect people's work, not just the budget. And to the representative of the committee. What advantages do you see in the adoption of this law in relation to what is today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you all that in improving Ukraine's legislation in any field -- in particular work -- we need to be guided, you know, by this law, we need to be guided by the principles of the primacy of international law over internal law. There are no approaches like ours in the world. If, for 30 days, I say, wages are delayed, for example, under Portuguese law number 17 since 1986, a person is exempt from all tax payments. All the lawsuits are taken off of it, for pay must take priority. That's why it's a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u121	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Time's up. Puts the vote first. On the grounds of the vote, please, National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u122	Dear National Deputies! I'm so impressed that I went to the theater of absurdity. I can't understand why the salary and pension payments are the same. It's practically happening at the same time. Paying off wages and paying off pensions are things that correspond to each other. Of course, 32.5 percent of the income fund is counted into the Pension Fund and 5 is counted as a social fund for the disabled, unemployed. Of course, that's a lot of money. But then we need to reform the pension system and create it. Money is transferred to personalized accounts, but it's a question of our perspective. So I don't understand why the president, the minister, says that, first of all, the MPs say, first of all, pay when these things have to be done so that they're connected. And they are connected practically in life. And you can't go against pay and pensions. This is a totally wrong position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u123	Thank you. For reasons of vote, the People's Deputy of Stoyan, the faction of our Ukraine. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u124	Dear National Deputies! For three consecutive years, the ILO session in Geneva heard a report from the government after a delay in wages, such as a violation of the ILO convention as a violation of human rights. And then the minister of work, Sahan, promised the public worldwide, 170 countries, that this problem would be solved. I'm surprised the government's position is that you don't want stability to be in the state, that you don't want the worker to get paid. The first priority is that they got the profit, they split the salary into the funds and so on and so forth. What Is the Wage? That's the purchasing power, that's the other calculation. Thus, this will not lead to a worsening of the situation. If the employers present here are afraid to do that, I want to say that the position of the government, I answer because we were negotiating with them, it's consistent with the position of the unions, and with the position of the STD, Mother said yesterday. That's why I'm asking you to overcome the veto. And I'm sure the President will sign it, because then he was just pushed, that's what the President used to say when he met with the asset. Let's overcome the veto, don't take sin upon soul. Let's pay back. If we can't turn back, we'll pay the people who worked on time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work with proposals by the President dated 02.03. Two hundred and twenty-two years Please determine your national MPs. [[17:24:11]] For-163 To 63. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the Committee on Social Policy and the work on overcoming the President's veto is put to the vote. This requires 300 votes. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:24:49]] For-182 For -182. The decision is not taken. The factions. I propose that the committee study this subject further and return to it. It's coming off, isn't it? Clearly, the question is being considered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed with you that after the break we will consider inclusion, I ask your attention, dear colleagues! On the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision, which was given to you in exchange for the 1178 project of June 10, 2002, on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the circumstances of the killings of journalists, George Gongadze, Igor Alexanderov, the attack on the lives of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jeliaškević and the violations committed by the constitutional and Ukrainian statesmen. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[17:26:16]] For a hundred and For 192, no decision is taken. I'll have the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the draft Act on Amendments to Articles 34 and 35 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine regarding the Assistant Consultants of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich will report on this. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As you can see, the importance and necessity of adopting amendments to the People's Deputies Act on Assistant Consultants is, in fact, evidence and debated by the People's Deputies. Yesterday we discussed all ten of them in this room. Let me remind you what this is about. First of all, you and I want to solve the two most difficult, most important problems that need to be solved today. This is first of all about the addition of four assistants to the National Human Resources and Financial Services Advisers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about four advisory assistants who apply, or who are subject to the requirements of the State Service Act, that is, government officials. And the second part of this big problem is about the number of general consulting assistants of the national MP. We spoke to you yesterday and agreed that there would be thirty-one. And yesterday, we also agreed with you in the discussion that we are building on two bills -- Bill 1083, introduced by the Turkish People's Deputies and others. And Bill 1083-7 was introduced by the People's Deputy Petrov. So if you agree, the committee would like to support the decision to adopt these two bills as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, no objection? I suggest you take this as a basis and have the committee deal with it. No, no, no, no, no, no. Please vote. [[17:29:31]] For 339 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the result tells us that we can come with you now and resolve the next question. And if you have no objection, unite these two bills and vote them out in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u129	There's no objection. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in general. Please vote. [[17:30:12]] For 355 For a total of 355 national deputies, the decision has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on prevention and resistance to legalization and the laundering of proceeds of crime is being introduced. Responsible to the committee, National Deputy Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please, Volodymyr Mikolajovich. Please be prepared by the national deputy Burjak on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u130	Your Honor, Mr. Head, the honourable Presidency, the distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption at its meeting considered two bills introduced by the legislators. In particular, the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, as well as the President of Ukraine, who introduced the bill, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, asked him to consider it urgent. At its meeting on 2 July, the Committee on Legal Policy reached a conclusion on the basis of a bill prepared by Deputy Carmazin, and proposed to the Supreme Council that it be adopted on the basis of a draft bill, taking into account the proposals set out in a bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. The difference between these two bills is that the Karmazin bill is more systematic, more logical and constructively spelled out the legal structure of the law. At the same time, Karmazin's bill envisions the creation in Ukraine of a special body, the National Financial Control Agency, while the Cabinet of Ministers bill envisages the creation of a special department, the Department of Financial Monitoring, within the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the Karmazin project provides for a clear criterion for the allocation of financial transactions to questionable ones, as well as transactions that should be cash-free in the amount of 50,000 euros in equivalent or other currencies, and cash in the amount of 10,000 euros in cash, or in another that is not included in a bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Law of the Cabinet of Ministers also contains a blank rule that the list of questionable transactions, financial and questionable transactions, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The law proposed by our colleague Karmazin provides a comprehensive list of such questionable financial transactions. It was these differences that led the committee's decision to take the Karmazin bill as a basis and work on it together, bringing it up for second reading. You've been given two draft rulings. One, prepared on our committee, and the opposite, prepared by the Committee on Finance and Banking, which proposes to take the basis of a bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to point out that whatever decision we make today, I'm asking you to adopt a decision -- the law to make in the first reading, because it takes on political significance, and Ukraine is in the state of those countries that, in the eyes of the world community, are a country where there is no fight against money laundering. Today, Ukrainian banks, which are closed by correspondence accounts in Germany, in other countries of Europe, are alarmed. If we do not respond to the demands of the world community and join in accordance with the 1990 Strasbourg Convention on Money Laundering ratified by Ukraine, our financial system will face great difficulties accordingly. And already in September-Yellow bankers will come and ask with tears in their eyes for us to adopt this law. Consider this situation. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Head, to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u131	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? No, it's all clear. Then let us offer another statement to the national deputy of Burjak, and then we shall vote. National Deputy Burak of the Committee on Finance and Banks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, in fact, the Committee on Finance and Banking worked out the standards of these two bills at its meeting. The opinion of members of the Committee on Finance and Banking that the bill, which has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, is softer than the central authority of the executive branch. Therefore, the opinion of members of the Committee on Finance and Banking supports the law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The currentity of this law, you don't need to report from this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u133	Dear National Deputies! If there is no objection, let us vote on two rulings as they come. The first is the vote, which was introduced by the National Deputies and supported by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime. This is document number 11-56/P1. On the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of the Laundering of Proceeds by Crime. This is Carmazin's project. People's deputies are asked to identify themselves on this matter. [[17:36:32]] For-47 It's 47 factions. Honorary colleagues view the vote as a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. On the basis of the draft Ukrainian law on prevention and resistance, legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself with the importance of making such a decision. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[17:37:25]] For 229 For -229, the decision is made. I'll have the factions, please. Dear National Deputies! We keep working. With motive? Please, National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u134	Valentina Seminouk, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'd like to make a request. We have a draft decree on the allocation of funds from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund to eliminate the effects of natural disasters, which occurred on June 23 and 24, 2002, in the Zitomirské, Hmielnické, Vinnitské and a number of other areas. Considering that people are in trouble today, I asked that we now consider and vote on the matter. More than that, there was no comment in the discussion. Let's make the right decision so that people can have some cash to cover those houses and stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund for the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which took place from 23 to 24 June 2002 in Žitomirsk, Hmelnicki, Vinnitsk and a number of other areas of Ukraine. This is document number 1284. I'll bet the vote on the basis. Please be supportive. [[17:39:13]] For 343 Decision taken. If there's no objection. National MP Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u136	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, no doubt the Socialist faction voted in full for this bill, but I have this addition. I ask the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of Mineconomy to consider something else. We have a terrible drought today. And at the same time today, about 2/3 of the Hersonian regions, say, have virtually no bread at all. So I would ask that if it said "and others," we would have included Hersonish, Santa Clauste, Clothing, which had virtually nothing left behind. It is also a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support and vote in general, taking into account the thought just expressed by the national MP Nikolaynko today. Please vote in general. In general, respectable colleagues. [[17:40:27]] For 304 Decision taken, thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 02.03, is being considered. The year 2002 was one of Reporter - Minister of Finance of Ukraine Igor Olegovich Jusko Please, Igor Olegovich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I can remind you that in the past call was accepted. Four or five drafts have been registered that have tried to resolve the problem of depreciating savings in the USSR Savings. Well, each of these bills had both advantages and disadvantages, but what can combine all of these bills, the only disadvantage is the lack of a source for repayment or payment of exactly undervalued savings. Well, that's actually a problem, and I don't want to repeat it right now, because there's a lot of questions left and there's no session time left. A bill is proposed, which has been voted on, because there is an immediate need to pay 9 billion, to restructure the rest, and so forth. Well, we understand that this money is not in the budget, and the President's proposal to cancel this bill. In February of this year, a working group was formed in the government under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Rogovo to find an understanding on this issue. I am authorized from this rostrum to invite you to work in a working group in such a way that the bill or concept that will be born is made by the National Deputies and is acceptable both in terms of budgetary policy and in terms of the Supreme Council. So I propose to support the President's proposals and once again invite him to join the working group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? None. Please sign up. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u140	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Igor Olegovich, the faction of the Socialist Party in the past, formed a working group headed by the former deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Anatoly Stankov. We've developed a number of specific proposals there, especially we've looked at banks, at Ukreximbank, at Prominestbank, and so on, which assets have taken so much, and we've calculated how part of them would be able to share with citizens, other specific proposals. We ask you to consider this bill, and it would allow you a lot to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u141	Thank you. It's not a question, it's a proposition, I understand. She's completely heard. In fact, I said let's get together and not for the electoral day anymore, because we understand that this is not the best time, and decisions aren't always made. We have another four years, let's sit down and work out, really, the concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u142	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u143	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Igor Olegovich, to be honest, we probably don't have four years. I think our voters, some kind of category, won't give us that kind of time frame, so to speak, and permission to use the tools that we've had for four more years. The concept of the law included a mechanism for restructuring. I think it's important to say that the proportion of meaning or weight, so to speak, of common sense in this matter is clear, because at one point we will not solve this problem. We must assume that the State has committed itself and is responsible for the return of those contributions. We didn't make that decision with you, it was a decision. Our task with you is to find the right solution to this question and to seek it. I'm for this committee to be set up, I'm for it to work. But I still think that the basis of these laws, which were developed in the last four years, is to take them as the basis for the work of this commission, and on this basis they begin to build a new concept, not in the next four years, but in the next six months or a year. Your opinion is on time. Please specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u144	Sergei Anatoliyovich, I'm asking you to miss me for the language, I meant four years before the next election campaign, so we have time to work fruitfully, I mean, of course. As long as we need time: six months, a year -- you know, it's not that simple a question to sit down and solve. Of course, it should be taken into account by the working group and what was in the bills of the national MPs of the last assembly, and the ideas that had already been heard in the working group. So we don't contradict each other or how much time it takes. In the fall, the holidays will be over. Let's sit down in September and start working. And then we'll answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u145	National Deputy Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u146	Dear Igor Olegovic, the law has been in force for six years and payments are now being made on behalf of the population and the law has been criticized for six years. New bills are constantly being introduced. And here you are talking about a working group working since February. Looks like there's some work to be done. I would like to hear from you what the new working group is proposing in order to speed up the process of repayment of debts to the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u147	First of all, I want to say that there is no final solution to the proposal. So in fact, it was a desire to prepare some of its visions so that when the Supreme Council of the New Convening begins to work, so that we can actually sit together and actually work out some common vision. I can say in person that I, for example, remembered during the working group the experience that we have in our population, let's say, post-war loans from 1945 to 1947, which were bonded but not named. I mean, which I can pass on, my grandmother gave me all the bonds in her time. I was already getting a student. So this isn't such a proposition, that's all. So this is one option, our people have experience, and it can also be perceived among others. Of course, a portion should be paid with money. But what -- we have to count the weighted and figure out, and that's the other thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u148	People's deputy Seminoga, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u149	Thank you. An honourable reporter, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered more than 14, if I am not betrayed by memory, the various options of the savings law, more than fourteen. And no draft law was passed by the government or initiated by the President, none! But all the bills tabled by the MPs were vetoed. Why, if so, will the Cabinet not offer anyone its own, at least one law, so that the Supreme Council can accept it? Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u150	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u151	Thank you. I actually answered that question. I'm sorry to repeat myself, but please, we invite you to work together to make this a common concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u152	Thank you, Igor Olegovich. The report invites the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and the work of Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u153	Dear President, the People's Deputies! As you have heard, the President once again imposed a veto on a law amending the Law on Guaranteeing the Restoration of Citizens' Savings, on State guarantees. The main content of the bill, which was vetoed, was contained in article 7, which proposed a scale that regulated the order and extent of the annual five-year repayment of contributions, depending on the size of the contribution. The aim of the bill was to speed up the solution to this problem, which we have had since the beginning of Ukraine's independence, when 132 billion grivens were destroyed. To date, this is the case when we are working under the 1996 law. For 2002, the corresponding article is intended to cover deposits worth 500 million dollars. Of these, 65 million are dead depositors, in fact, heirs to a funeral, and living depositors of 435 million bracelets. At this rate, 250 years will be required. So, as you can see, the motives of this law are very similar to the promises of Hodge Nasreddin to teach lchak to speak in 20 years. Right now, the Power is promising us to pay off these debts. The difference is that it's either the investor dies or the Power. Well, we're counting on a second option, of course. Consider the President's comments, the President's proposal for the bill. In fact, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour agrees with these observations, except for one, I will end by saying so. What are the President's proposals? These are compensatory certificates, they have ceased to work. The deposit-refund scheme really entails a budget burden of about nine billion is unrealistic and can be accepted. With regard to the scale itself, there are also some violations of the rights of investors themselves. We agree that up to 50 per cent, as the bill stated, of non-cash deposits, cannot be used for housing utilities. That you don't have to open special accounts for investors, new ones. Today, these special accounts are also free of 50 bracelets. That is, all of these comments by the President, the Committee agrees with them and the only proposal is made that links the annual payments to the gross domestic product of the country, which you know is growing at a reasonable pace. And it is proposed that this amount be added, so to speak, is that the annual budget of Ukraine is at least 1 per cent of the gross domestic product. The Committee proposes that the bill should be redrafted to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, it is the committee's proposal to vote on the law in a new edition as a whole. Is there no objection? People's deputies, please vote. We're voting on a new law as a whole. Please vote. [[17:53:27]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, here I am told that not all have been able to vote. I ask you once more to prepare and put the question to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing the adoption of the law in a new edition as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:54:08]] For 273 For -273. Decision taken. The factions. The decision has already been made. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support my offer. We need, we have little time left, we need to vote on ratification laws, we need 3 documents. This is page 13. Please take the agenda on page 13. This is the draft law on the ratification of the convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. The committee supports the profile ratification. Please vote in general. Please vote. [[17:55:16]] For 340. For -340. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! Next, I'm going to ask you to take the registration number 0003. The draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the United Nations Convention on Combating Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought or Desertification in Africa. The Committee supports the overall vote. Please vote. [[17:56:01]] For 342 For -342, the decision is made. Dear colleagues! Next document 0013. The draft law on the ratification of the agreement on the conservation of Afro-Eurasia migratory wetlands. The profile committee supports that. I'm betting on a total vote on ratification. Please vote. [[17:56:36]] For 338
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u155	For 338, the decision is made. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement, we'll keep working for 15 minutes. The Innovation Act is being introduced, with proposals from the President of Ukraine from 07.03. See page 5 of 2002, published by Jehovah’s Witnesses. First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Science, Gurgy Andry Mikolayovich. Dear National Deputies! The secretary of state was appointed here, but since he is already working as an Apparatus Manager, the corresponding replacement took place, please consider. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u156	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Innovation Act with the President's proposals. There were four of them. These proposals involved that the Court of Auditors was not entitled to exercise the rightfulness of cadetizing innovative projects. This is reflected in article 7. The president's second suggestion was that, in providing state support to innovation actors, editorial changes were proposed in addition to state support for innovation: "financial support for innovation activities" and "financial support" all over the world. It means that there may be other sources of support. And it's also adding through which "costs of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea budget" that were forgotten. Also included is a proposal by the President of Ukraine to record that the funds recovered from the state-issued innovation company are accounted for in a special account that is used to provide financial innovation if the State Budget Act does not provide for the following. Thus, all the President's proposals in the new law are taken into account. A request to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u157	Understand, fellow believers? No questions asked. National MP Yavorowski and Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u158	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter! And above all, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! You may recall, during the discussion, there was an offer that no one had denied. Because of this, I think it would be good to have a protocol assignment now so that our science committee will check and report on the use of innovative funds at all. [[It's his jurisdiction. You don't have to create another commission.]] I think that would be very appropriate, and we would normally be exercising some normal civilised control over these costs, and to my report I'm going to vote for this law, and I think it's going to pass. But there was talk about identifying a few strategic innovative directions, because we have little money and we break into these directions. Will it be counted or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u159	I'll answer that. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, we will next consider the draft law on priority directions for innovation. Now there's a different document. A corresponding commission will be made. Please, National Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u160	Thank you. Dear reporter! If I understand you correctly, the President's proposal to withdraw from the Court of Auditors the possibility of carrying out control on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of these funds provided for in the State Budget. If so, unfortunately, then I will not be able to support just such a version of this bill, because of all the President's proposals made in his veto, this is exactly the only proposal that I could not agree to in principle, because it is just article 16 of the bill of accounting that provides for the possibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to control the use of funds through the Court of Auditors of any legal person regardless of their form of ownership in the part that relates to the use of funds from the State Budget. So I'd ask you to make it clear whether this proposal is taken into account or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u161	Thank you. Indeed, article 1 of the Law stipulates that the Supreme Council entrusts the Court of Auditors with the exercise of State control in the field of innovation. It really is. But according to Ukraine’s basic law, the Supreme Council exercises parliamentary control within the limits defined by the Constitution, this is article 85, paragraph 33. And the Court of Auditors also relies on the exercise of control on behalf of the Supreme Council, article 98. In accordance with the law, the Supreme Council entrusts the Court of Auditors with the task of controlling the rightfulness of lending innovative projects at the expense of funds from the State Budget. That is to say, this is how the Court of Auditors is empowered to control the entire range of relationships that arise from the budgetary lending of innovative projects, including, I emphasize, and the selection of these projects. Because that's the question that goes into the spectrum. This does not correspond to article 98 of the Constitution. So the Court of Auditors relies only on monitoring the use of budgetary resources, that is, not the whole spectrum, but on the budget. In this regard, it is suggested that this paragraph be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u162	Thank you. Igor Raphaelovich, do you have any suggestions? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u163	Thank you. I'd like to ask. So you've told all of the technology of the House of Auditors, and it's going to cause three times the state of the Court of Auditors to increase if you go into the technology of these relationships, computations, projects, tenders and so on. You're going to tell us tomorrow to triple the size of the Accounting Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u164	On the contrary, we propose this paragraph to entrust the Court of Auditors with monitoring the full range of relationships in the use, creation of investment activities. On the contrary, exclude the interference of the Court of Auditors. And it'll only control the use of budget funds, but it doesn't depend on project selection, it doesn't rely on initiative control. That's the point of taking into account the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u165	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich, please. Igor Rafailovich, so that we may be able to consider the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u166	Honorable deputies. The Committee on Science and Education has considered this issue and it has fully agreed with the President's remarks and I would like to answer the question of Deputy Zvaric as to what is being removed from the Court of Auditors to monitor the process of innovation. However, article 17 adds another paragraph that states that financial support for innovation is provided at the expense of the State budget within the budget. That is, when the budget is made up, there is already control over those innovation projects that will be financed by the state budget. In general, we fully agreed with the president’s comments. This is one of the most important laws in terms of innovation in Ukraine. This law actually generalizes the creation of technology parks and the law that we have here in the past proposed to support new technologies and so forth. This law allows for a 50 - percent reduction in the value added tax and the profit to be paid to the relevant innovation company. This law determines the priority of innovation. Priority innovation is the activity that goes into the list of innovation projects that are being passed in the second law that I want to ask us to adopt the second law at the same time. Thus, if the law is passed, innovation within the State will go much more intensively and effectively. I ask the honourable deputies to uphold both laws. This law is complete, and it is adopted in the first reading, the one we reported yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is to legislate in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please don't hold a rally. [[18:07:22]] For 306 For -306, the decision is made. The factions, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the following: I propose to consider the draft Act on Priorities for the Innovation of Ukraine for the period to 2005. We discussed it yesterday. There is a proposal for the committee to take as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u168	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u169	Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[18:08:09]] For 275 For 275, the decision is made. The factions. It's a motive. And we've already agreed, the protocol order's over. We made a deal. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have only seven minutes left to work, can we still consider the law on geographical names with the proposals of the President of Ukraine? Let's see, please. Reporter, only very short literally. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to take into account the President's proposals and put him to the vote as a whole with the President's comments. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act with President 0916's proposals, as a whole, with the president's comments. Please vote. [[18:09:18]] For 245 Dear colleagues, it is also proposed to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, with proposals by the President to repeal the Act of 02.04. The committee proposes to take the president's remarks into account, to vote in general with observations. Is there no objection? Please vote. This is document 0917. Please be supportive. [[18:09:58]] For 269 To -269. Decision taken. Next document, 0921. Ukraine's "Providing Investment Projects in Turkmenistan with Presidential Proposals of 02.04. The year 2002 was one of The committee proposes to agree with the President's proposals, to vote on the President's proposals as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:10:34]] For 252 Dear colleagues, next document. 0925, Ukraine's Act to Join Ukraine in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, with Presidential proposals dated 04.04. The year 2002 was one of The committee proposes to accept the President's proposals, a profile committee. If there's no objection, I'm voting in general with the President's proposals. Please vote. [[18:11:16]] For 319 For 319, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, the following document 0926 is the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Preservation and Treatment of Animals in Human Settlements, with the President's proposal to repeal the Law of 06.04. In 2001 The committee proposes to accept the President's proposal to cancel the decision on the adoption of the law. I'm betting on the vote as a whole, please support. [[6:11:57]] For 309 For -309, the decision is made. Next document, 0984, draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the order of maintenance and treatment of domestic animals in Ukraine. The committee proposes that the decision to adopt the project be revoked according to what we voted on. National MP Rizak, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich in connection with the adoption of the previous law, we have removed him from the vote, so this automatically does not have to be put to the vote, it is automatically put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m1.u171	Dear colleagues, please vote and support this proposal. I'd like to vote for the rejection. [[18:13:15]] For 312 For -312. Dear colleagues! There's still document 0908, which is very important. I'm asking for your attention. This is the Ukrainian law on repayment of arrears from wages and other types of payments with Presidential proposals since 0203 2002. The committee partly takes into account the President's proposals and proposes to adopt it as a new law. Is there no objection? Please vote, we need 226 votes. [[18:13:59]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! And last of all, if you don't mind, this is document 0912 -- the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian People's Money Income Index Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 02.03. The year 2002 was one of The committee proposes to adopt the law in a new edition. I'm betting on voting to adopt the law in a new edition as a whole. Please vote. [[18:14:39]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The chairman of the committee requests that two other very important social laws be voted on. They're processed and they're not denying it. Decision taken. For -315. It is the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on State Aid to Families With Children, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. The committee proposes to approve the law, taking into account the President's proposals. I'm betting on the vote as a whole. Please vote. [[18:15:18]] For 274 For -274. Dear colleagues! 0931 The Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants and Persons of the Chief of Staff of Internal Affairs, with proposals by the President dated 21.12.2001. The committee recommends acceptance in general with the president's comments. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[18:15:58]] For 316 For 316, the decision is made. Dear colleagues! There are two social issues left. Last 2: Law 0933 of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 01.04. The year 2002 was one of The committee recommends acceptance with the president's comments. I'm betting on voting in general with the President's remarks. Please vote. [[18:16:42]] For 285 Decision taken. Document 0934 of the Ukrainian Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act with the President's proposals for repealing the Act of 25.03.2002. The committee proposes to adopt the law in a new edition. Please vote in favour of this law as a whole in the new edition. Please be supportive. [[18:17:23]] For 266 For negative 266, the decision is made. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your work. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we'll continue work at 10 a.m. according to the schedule of meetings.
