ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u1	I'm asking you to announce and invite the national deputies to the session room. Most, most, yes. Peter Mikolaiovich, don't be bullied. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:02:21]] Registered -361 There are 361 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, we're with you. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. Dear colleagues, you've been given a draft ruling. I beg your attention, I ask you to gather, we must vote in order to have a successful vote. Draft Decree 2303, which was implemented by your commission, by our commission to the two committees, is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the situation of the attack on the Ukrainian national deputy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda and to consider it with one vote. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[16:03:44]] For 245 For -245, the decision is made. The factions. Dear colleagues, I am voting on this decision, if there is no objection, as a basis. Please vote. [[16:04:16]] For 279 For 279, the decision is made. The factions. What Complements? Please, National Deputy Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The point is that our MP group was putting John, the national deputy of John, on board this commission. For some reason, an editorial that is now officially distributed is not available. I mean, an offer from the People's Authority faction to include the People's Deputies of Ivanov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u3	Is there no objection? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u4	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In the morning, when the issue was discussed, there was a proposal to expand the field of activity of this commission, and to investigate not only the situation of the attack on Sevkovic, but exactly the same situation with the attack on the national deputy of Rudzkovska Mikolaiovich. I mean, to expand the field not only of Sevkovic, but also of Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich, because it happened in the same context as Sevkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It turns out we have most of it. Voting is a sign of this. If we do not proclaim the majority, it does exist. And if it's declared, it's gone. It's a paradox of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. So let us not proclaim it, but by real vote we will prove that it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u7	Thank you. National MP Melniczuk, please. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u8	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw your attention to you as Chairman, all the people's deputies present in the Chamber. The assault and beating of members of the people has become the norm of our lives. On 2 March this year, the journalist Aleksandrov was killed in the town of Slavjansk. An attempt has also been made on me as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence. Of course, the criminal case is all in the main correspondence, papers and so on. Note, however, that Vladimir Mihajlović, Sevkovic and Zubov are two members of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence. If we have lived to face a situation where people's members of one of the force committees are being beaten up with impunity, then we must move on. I therefore support Vinsky's proposal: let us put all three cases together and instruct the commission of inquiry to work carefully on this issue, and how to avoid further attacks and beatings on members of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will then vote on the proposals that have been made. The proposal is to include a temporary commission of inquiry into the situation concerning Deputy Sovkovic, National Deputy Ivanov of the People's Authority Group. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:08:41]] For 240 For 240. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the national deputy of Winski to assign this commission of inquiry to consider at the same time the circumstances surrounding the beating of the national deputy of Rudzkowski. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:09:12]] For-162 For 162. In factions, please give. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the People’s Deputy Zubov to entrust this commission of inquiry to investigate the circumstances of the attack on the People’s Deputy Zubov. Did I put it right? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please make up your mind. [[16:09:48]] For-164 For 164. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it is necessary to have 150 votes in order for us to make a decision on the commission of inquiry. And to include it, we have to have 226 votes. Is that right or wrong? I now request the head of the Regulatory Committee to give my opinion. He'll confirm that I'm right. I'm right, dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting in a draft decision. Let us assign at least one matter to be addressed and objectively informed by the Supreme Council. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:10:53]] For 314 For 314. The factions. Decision taken. National MP Bespalov. Do you have the procedure or the reasons for the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The People's Government Group has been invited to hear today from the Minister of the Interior and a specific team for the case of his Deputy Gigi. I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u11	With all due respect, my dear colleague, I take your offer, but we have made a decision. If you now formulate this motion for a ruling and give me this document, I will put it to a vote. I should have suggested that when we were looking at this document, I couldn't go back now. The offer didn't come in, you didn't even give it out of the voice. Please make a draft decision now, and we'll look at it. Dear colleagues! We're continuing our work. You are being reviewed by the draft National Space Programme Act 2003-2007. The Regulatory Committee proposes to take 30 minutes to consider this question: for a report - 10 minutes, for a question to a reporter - 5 minutes, for a co-report - 10 minutes, for a question to a co-rapporteur - 5 minutes and not to discuss at all. How will we proceed in this regard? No, it's the committee's proposal, the profile committee, I mean. Then, if they are willing, let us be clear about the discussion. Do we have a deal? Thank you. Please, Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft of the 2003-2007 National Space Program is being proposed, developed by scientists, space professionals, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Defence of other interested ministries in accordance with the Ukrainian Space Act. The project was discussed at different levels and approved. The program presented today is the third space program that. an independent Ukraine. Today, the Ukrainian space complex has all the necessary components to carry out full - scale space projects. Five missile space complexes of Ukrainian production are now being used at the cosmodometers of various countries around the world. This is Zenith-2, Zenith3sl, Cyclone-2, Cyclone-3 and Dnipro. Over the course of 10 years, 65 successful launches of spacecraft have been made and 123 spacecraft, including 9 Ukrainian spacecraft, have been launched into orbit. In the course of previous space programmes, Ukraine has undertaken unique space explorations of its own and international programmes, and has launched systematic Earth-to-Space research using country-to-country Sic and Ocean devices. Ukrainian scientists took part in large - scale international projects — earth’s magnetosphere study, solar study, and space exploration. spectrum and spectrum. Five years ago, in November 1997, a crew of an American spaceship, Columbia, launched its first astronaut, Leonid Kadenuk, in Ukraine. In 16 days he conducted a series of experiments in space biology. These unique orbital experiments have found their continuation in the scientific technological experiments that are being prepared to be carried out at an international space station. These are carried out in cooperation with the Russian Federation and the United States. Ukraine has established fruitful scientific cooperation with major countries with outer space potential and has signed more than 30 international agreements. First of all, Russia, the United States, China, Turkey, Israel, India, Brazil, Argentina, and other countries. The international cooperation agreement signed in January this year, the use of Ukrainian carrier rockets at the Alkantra launch centre, is of particular importance. The combination of the advantages of the Ukrainian Cyclone-4 missile and the Brazilian launch centre of Alkantra within a joint commercial project creates favourable conditions for both countries to safely enter the world launch service market. This project, along with the world-renowned Sea Star project, the Dnipro project and others, is demonstrating great export potential in the space field. It should be noted that in general, more than 50 percent of the production is directed towards exports to developed countries, which ensure the steady development of industries, the pre-eminent development of space technologies, and the high level of budgeting. During the years of the previous space program, taxes alone were paid to the budget at a cost of one and a half times that they received. In addition, the funds involved are higher than those received on several occasions. In the new century, the cosmic activity of the world gained new quality, moving from a purely scientific and demonstration stage to a purposeful use of space resources. The space industry functions under the laws of the real economy, and the criteria for its effectiveness are defined by socio-economic and scientific and technical consequences. The basic conceptual positions, which take into account the internal and external factors of space activities, are enshrined in the Concept for Structural Reconstruction of the Innovation of the Space Sector, which was approved in 2001. On the basis of the conceptual framework developed, the main tasks of the programme, the direction of activities and the specific projects of the new national space programme have been formulated. An important principle of the design and execution of the program is its target orientation, the orientation of the results on a particular consumer. The major impact of the program on progress in the most important areas of our society is anticipated. The new program is based on the 4 main priorities and groups of science and technology projects. This scientific space exploration is ahead of schedule for a series of international projects involving Ukraine. This is the development of spacecraft output. These are the Cyclone-4 and Ground Start projects. It's a new generation of spacecraft for monitoring, remote sensing of the Earth, scientific applications of space assets, and the implementation of breakthrough technologies in national space systems and other areas. All the science and technology projects have clear regulation and legal basis. Each of them is defined by the relevant inter-State, inter-government agreements of Ukraine, Ukrainian laws, Presidential decrees, Cabinet of Ministers decrees. The scientific and technical relevance, importance and priority of these projects are determined by the relevant decisions of the scientific and technical boards of the Space Agency, the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Defence, the State Commission for Industrial Defence. The economic cost of work has gone through the comprehensive expertise of specialized organizations and is based on the technical and economic justifications of each project. The cost of the program’s most important priorities for a period of five years is an average of 300 million dollars. A major feature of the preparatory work on the project is specific work on the involvement of non-budgetary funds, such as targeted projects for telecommunications development, navigation, modernization of launch vehicles. The target level of non-budgetary financing for space projects is minimally necessary for the development of space science, technology, technology, the competitiveness of Ukraine in the world's space services and technology markets. The missile-space potential of Ukraine is a national acquisition, and state policy in space needs to be geared towards its development, modernisation and efficient use. We are counting on the Supreme Council to take a very important step in the legislative provision of such a state policy. Please support the Universal Space Program for the next five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Polishchuk, People's Rule Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u14	Thank you. That's my question. In the national space program, is there a navigational vector that will work on the Ukrainian transport system? And if so, is your national program aligned with the Ministry of Transport?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u15	There's this direction, it's consistent with the Ministry of Transport, and it provides for the integration of jobs, Ukrainian jobs, into the Galileo project, which will be produced by the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u16	Please, National Deputy Kalinchuk, Ukrainian Agriculture Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, I have such a question for you. We have approved the National National Space Program of Ukraine for 1998-2002. How does the new project now relate to what has been done, done, or done? What is the relationship between these two programs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u18	The program proposed today is the third space program of an independent Ukraine. All of them have personal priorities that make Ukraine a priority in one direction or another. Thus, each program is a legal successor to the previous program.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u19	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u20	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Undoubtedly, Aleksandar Aleksieevich, the Committee of Industrial Policy has approved the programme, but I only want to say that what you report in these circumstances will not be feasible, because today money will be pumping into your program, not giving you money. That's clear. I would like to draw your attention to the next moment, Vladimir Mihajlovich. What is the principle of the agenda if we are today considering a national programme that is in principle necessary, but at a time when we have not considered the draft law on the principles of internal and foreign policy. The moment when the draft law on the principles of Ukraine's national interests has not been considered. The Law on Basic Principles for Foreign Policy and External Relations of Ukraine, which is on the agenda today, is only a half hour’s work. What is the point today of considering the national space programme ahead of these critical policy issues? In my view, this is a direct introduction to public opinion and MPs today from concrete work to strengthen our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u21	Well, please, I'll fill in after you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u22	The issue is that respected deputies have adopted a number of laws that provide for the development of a space programme every five years. The programme has been implemented in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation and is submitted to the Supreme Council. That's why I think it's hers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u23	Mikola Vasilovich, I fully agree with you that if we had the basic principles of internal and external politics, we would then work systematically and every law would be accepted as a logical element of these basic principles. But we got out of the way the committees did. And we're going to have a problem here today -- we're going to talk about the next issue, which is the basic principles of internal and external politics. We agreed that this would just be a presentation today for every author of this document, and then we would create a single commission that would produce a synthesized and harmonized document. Please, Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u24	Dear reporter, I have a very short question for you. Ukraine as a space state is a myth or a reality? That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to give the word to the deputy of Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u25	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u26	Ukraine is a space state, it's not an illusion, it's not a myth, it's a reality today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u27	I have two questions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u28	Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u29	I have two questions for you. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." First. There was such a leader of the Agency Pity Teterenko, you probably know. [[it's reliable data.]] He was offered a large sum of money to be written down for our President Kuchma's electoral campaign. He refused to do so and emigrated abroad. Tell me, is this a big loss or a big loss? And I have a second question for you. Is that true, if you're not true, correct, but I've heard very often about it, as if you're about to launch President Kuchma into space. Is that true or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u30	Too bad, Titarenko. Regrettably, Titarenko has used respected many of the people's deputies to resolve his main issues and to leave abroad, which he has successfully achieved. There is no other subterfuge under his decision than his own personal desire, which he has fulfilled for several years. And a loss, a slight loss for our country, for our science.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. I think the reporter has a right not to answer questions he has no answers to. Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Alexiyovich. The word comes from the committee, the head of the Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Subcommittee, Vitaly Ivanovich Mikeo. Please, Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the importance of today’s study of this subject and of our viewing the space program. The question is, Is it not a myth of the cosmic state or not? I'd like to say how a person who worked in a military defence complex, in a missile complex, to say that it's a good thing that we're looking at this program today because it can become a myth. Because all the achievements we have today are based on the possibilities many years ago of our industry. And if we don't confirm this program today, we won't think about how to support our space industry, we're actually going to be a myth today. And I've studied this program very carefully, and I want to say, it's our privilege to support this program, because it's primarily 40,000 jobs, it's very advanced technology, it's supporting high technology in dozens of industries in our country. That is what can always be our pride. So I feel like I shouldn't repeat all the achievements and all the possibilities that the reporter said today. But I am addressing you from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, from other committees that have looked at this program, and saying that it should be our honor to support this program, to help this program. Take data: The 1998 budget of Ukraine was able to allocate 8 million dollars to this program, the United States -- 26 dollars at all, yes, 8 million dollars, and the United States -- 27 billion dollars. Thailand stands out more of us. I want to tell you. The main thing is not to lose professionals who are left behind, who aren't going anywhere yet, and they're going to love their business, and they're going to do it. And if we support even a little bit of the power that even today is asking for direction is cosmic, we're going to preserve the very main thing -- our scientific footage and the possibilities that are beyond Ukraine, because it's the only one and one of the great industrial links that is our pride today. I call, on behalf of the Committee and the factions of our industry and entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine, to support the program in every direction that is possible, based on the possibilities of our budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Please sign in. Light up on the board, please. National MP Levcun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! You don't have to. National MP Solomonine, please, let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u36	Please pass the word "Hinsburg" to Olga Petrovney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u37	Hinzburg Olga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u38	I'm sorry. Dear Vitalia Ivanovich! I have this question, it's for myself, it bothers me inside. Please tell me, in your own time, how the Soviet Union took the lead in the space industry, and Yuri Alexiyovich Gagarin ascended into space, and then probably the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union struggled to adopt this law. Was there any power of will, and should we go along this road as you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u39	I believe that a person without the power of will cannot be not only a deputy but also a human being at all. That's why will is always necessary. But it seems to me that the main thing is that we need to focus on some separate chains that will pull out our entire industry, Ukraine. And I support you in one way, which is to make sure that Ukraine understands that only high technology, only a high level of science, will put us at the country level. It's not raw additives, it's just high levels of technology, science, technology, industry. This is our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u40	Please, National Deputy Gureev, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u41	Deputies, of course, are the priorities of our industry. Yes, of course. We're convinced and we need to understand that prior to the adoption of state-owned laws is a requirement of time, they need to be adopted, but we need to support industry's priorities, because the program needs a little bit of financing, but today this direction of industrial development is already providing additional revenue. You know, our country has the best missiles used in the Cylons program, we know joint ventures that have profits today, they create extra jobs. [["The Sea Launch."]] I want to ask you a question: Vitaly Ivanovich, you are also the head of the enterprise, the director of the world-famous enterprise in our country, I want to hear from you what gives the program for your, of course, business and industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u42	First of all, these are cooperative supplies from thousands of enterprises for this program, thousands. So it's not just equipment, it's high equipment. And what I'd like to say is that today it's becoming a whole different degree of electronics supply and everything. Today, microsatellites are ahead. That's what they have to give our dying microelectronics, our dying electronics, and that's tens of thousands of jobs. And what's important is that the approval of this program will make it possible for us to believe that the engineering potential that is in the country that our country will ever need. And that's very important. And I want to tell you, this is where questions were asked or were ever, so to speak, faith, will. I can tell you that 90 percent of space technology, military technology was done in the Soviet Union not only for money, but people were doing it all day long, working on one day's wages, but there was faith that it could be done. And this technique does. I've recently been to one of the companies in Dniproperty, and I want to say, when they showed me the system that we have today, they don't have a rich United States, but they don't, because it was people's desire for their talent, their faith in the future. And we must instill that faith with you people. This program will give them opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u43	Valerius Mikhailovich Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Mr. Reporter! I think we should be honest about what's going on. Just in 2002, the program ended. To say that she gave a great deal of an advantage, the budget committee simply withdrew the funding because we have no legal right to finance a programme that has already ended. Now you're presenting, well, I think, as an extension of that program. I just want to ask you a question. How much will it cost in 2003 at least, since it is planned to finance so that, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, he knows how much additional resources need to be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u45	It takes 300,000 in this program every year for this program to work. But you know, five years of the program was all given. 300 million. I'm sorry. In five years 300 million were also allocated. But I would like to tell you such a thing that there have never been any use of other questions in this range of international applications of our media. Today we have to look at it this way: we only got the profits from the fact that there was some work done there in those years. Now, to get some kind of return in other years, you have to put something into this program. If we don't invest, we don't have anything. So we're going to go to someone and then say it's a myth? No, it's not. Space is, the space program is, we are a space state and we have to fight for it. I know there's every paragraph written down, an article. I can tell you can treat me with a smile, but I've put hundreds of rostrums in military programs, and I know how they've stood up for it, and I know what the consequences are for today. You know that today many radio stations are looking for everything to find out how it was built, what its technical parameters are, and dozens more of them do. And in your area where you were the head, most of what was done in Ukraine. "Radioelectronics" was in your neighborhood, and you should know better than I did -- day and night, although you didn't always give money.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u46	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich, time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, the national MP Manchulenko has signed up to prepare for the national deputy Pauluski. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u49	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! In the industries of developed countries, space activities, especially in the interests of defence and security, are among the most important functions of the state. In these countries, there has been a steady increase in the allocation of space programs. Ukraine also, with significant missile-space potential and very limited resource, financial and global economic capabilities, is conducting space-based activities in the framework of national space programmes. The implementation of space activities in the interests of national security and defence is one of the priorities of Ukraine, which is determined by the need to ensure long-term public interests, to increase security and to protect the country. The main tasks in this direction are defined according to the military doctrine of Ukraine and the concept of national security, taking into account regional geopolitical interests. Taking into account the global experience of using space assets in the interests of national security, the state of development of the national scientific base, the accumulated national scientific and technological experience and the international legal norms for the exploration and use of space, as well as the presence in Ukraine of elements of terrestrial space infrastructure. The State's priority in this direction is to create and operate a space-based optical observation system, a space-wide location observation system, a high-eliptic space electronic observation system, a single ground-based special information network based on existing space infrastructure, a space communication system and a data transmission system consisting of geostationary or several high-eliptic relays, a set of ground stations based on an existing satellite communications station park, a ground-based navigational flight control complex for detection and correction of positioning devices. As we examine the implementation of the previous program, it is evident that individual government officials do not understand the importance of this activity. If it were different, the financing of the space program would have reached 30 percent of the planned, and it would have been much more important. The new space program, for the sake of national security and defence, provides a number of direct natural-purpose projects with a total cost of 41.45 million. That's right. These projects plan to develop technology for receiving, processing and disseminating information through space - based Earth sensing, navigation, and communication systems that will contribute to the state’s technological and economic independence. At the same time, the introduction of new space technologies developed in the interests of national security and defence in other sectors of Ukraine's economies will accelerate the economic growth of the state, which will also have a positive impact on the degree of equipment and resilience of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I think that the National Space Program is an important document that forms a modern approach to the security and defence of Ukraine, and I propose to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u50	Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Prepare Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I am one of those people who only received from such cosmic, air and space programs. I once received three national awards from three countries: the USSR, the USSR, and Ukraine. And I'm saying that I'm feeling a little bit of this, and I want to say that there are very big problems today with the development of this sector. Today, well, at the border, we're just pulling out the media, and the main thing in these areas is the board, the furniture, the microelectronics. So these are the sectors that are basic, they're intellectual today, they're in decline. That's 30 percent of all finance and microelectronics, equipment, and today we stick to those who are said to be gray, young people who are not involved. And we can really lose the advantage that we still have today. So I suggest the same program, this program, there's going to be a program to support the aviation industry, these programs have to be priority number one. Because I've once analyzed macroeconomics in the world, it's such an interesting conclusion that a country that exports raw materials and intelligence and imports ready-made products, forms, connections, and so on, has to pay 20-40 times less than a developed country. So the space industry, the aviation industry, the microelectronics, is the foundation that will make it possible to be all rich and really enter, build, achieve the European standard of living in Ukraine. So this program needs to be supported. What's more, I want to thank the Supreme Council, because I was once at an international conference from the European new Galileo system -- navigation and communication systems -- and didn't talk about Ukraine. And I'm asking the chief manager, and you call me the space states in Europe, and he's the first to call Ukraine. I'm saying, why isn't there any of our projects? And he says: and your government doesn't offer. And that's why I'm here, remember, I've written a letter to the President asking the government to make sure that all the branches of the government remember their space sector and include it in these projects. Well, we couldn't vote for the President, we voted for the Prime Minister, and you're already hearing that Ukraine will be a participant in this communication, navigation and profiting Ukraine from this activity. But to do so, you need to invest money so that the branch can support the microelectronics, so it can support the equipment. Then we as an equal partner will enter into this program. And so to conclude, I would like to stress once again, directly as a protocol mandate to give to the government that it is considered to be a priority and to provide full funding. And the budget committee, when we take the budget and we set the priorities, we include a space program in the priorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u52	National Deputy Leonid Kadenuk, NDP faction. Prepare Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a very important law for Ukraine is the National Space Program. It is known that the expansion and further development of space exploration is an important catalyst for social progress. This assessment of space exploration reflects the fundamentality of space activities. It should be noted that the exploration and use of space is one of the most promising directions of scientific and technological progress of the twenty-first century, which brings mankind closer to learning the mysteries of nature and gives tangible practical results. Working more than a year at the leading space centers of the United States, I was impressed by the seriousness of the approach to space exploration and the development of space technology in that country. Through budgetary funding, the state is demonstrating its interest in space projects. This is what NASA is talking about for the current year, which is 15 billion dollars. Today, space technology is a factor that harmonizes economic development that combines economic interests with environmental security. Increasing the quality of life in the near future will only be possible on the ground of sustainable development, which involves not only taking into account demographic and environmental factors, but developing development models that consider these factors as interdependent components of the single functioning of society. Space technology from this point of view is a necessary basis for such development. Of course, lack of funding inhibits the development of the space and rocket industry, and prevents the development of the powerful potential of Ukrainian scientists and engineers. It takes all of us to realize that today's underfunding of the space programme returns tomorrow's huge cost to the economy, the decline in prestige and the authority of the state. The space sector is closely related to many sectors of the national economy -- it's also radio, it's television, it's medicine, it's agriculture, it's research into the natural resources of the earth, it's observation of the ecological changes of the planet, metallurgy and much more. Because of this, by halting the development of the space sector, we are inhibiting the development of the economy as a whole. From what I've said, I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u54	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. To prepare for the Tiny Constantine Mercury.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Committee on Science and Education reviewed and approved the space program in Ukraine. There's a certain principle of why space needs to be supported is a process of globalization that's going through the earth, one minute of credible fantasy. The earth will eventually move on to the establishment of the president of the earth, the government of the earth, the parliament of the earth. What will happen next? Then the earth can become a closed system, and in a closed system disorder develops spontaneously. Earth’s civilization could break apart, and to resist it, the earth would have to go out into space. In this way, it is objectively possible to develop Ukraine’s space system. Ukraine has a lot of work, we produce and sell rockets and space devices from Russia, China, the United States of America, Brazil. The export volume of the sector is more than 50 percent. The contribution of the budget to this sector, compared with other large states, is certainly small, but on the contrary, it has been included in the budget one and a half times as much as it has been invested from the budget in this sector. The branch needs to be supported morally, politically, and emotionally. I have this wish: I'd like to talk about double technology, as it is in the NASA system in the United States, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, on maximizing the use of the results of the National Academy of Sciences and Institutions of the State's fundamental research, on providing impulses for the restoration of jobs to our numerous, closed electronic factories. For example, in the same Montenegrins and other cities in Ukraine. In particular, the Advisory Council is interested in taking a photo of forest vegetation from outer space and deciphering trees and trees. It's going to take national support, this space sector, but it's going to have to create a national halo. On the other hand, it would be appropriate to create a certain Bureau of Applications that has a branch in national production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u56	Constantine Mercury Sitnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like very much to support this space program. For more than 30 years, the National Academy of Sciences has solved many and many fundamental problems of science, including biological science. As the director of this program for thirty years, I know very well how many Ukrainian biologists have done in space and have gained authority in the world. When they say today that we have to start with internal and external politics, and then everything else, I'll say, well, if we're in space strong, if our intelligence is going to work on space, if it's focused, it's all intelligence, it's physics, it's math, it's biology, it's going to be internal politics, it's going to be strong and invincible in external politics. So I support this program in every way. Of course, it has major flaws, two flaws, as a minimum. First, 300 million is not money at all. If Thailand is 8 billion, I'm asking you what the money is. But they tell us we're poor. We're not poor, money is, we even know where to take it, but somehow the government doesn't take it. So the wish, maybe the budget committee will find some money and then the second flaw will be eliminated. We're not doing what we want today. Thank you. Foreign colleagues help. And without good modern devices, which unfortunately today and in our institution, where I work, and in most ideological institutions, are missing. And for them to be, they need money. And when we figure that out, we're going to raise fundamental science and modern thinness and very new technology to a height that we haven't had it in Ukraine yet. I'm very supportive and I'm asking you to support this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll decide when we vote. There is a need, dear colleagues, to consult with you. Now, according to the schedule of meetings, we have to go over the draft laws on the principle of internal and external policy. But there are many. And we won't be able to look into it today. Then there's an offer, don't break it. Now, these issues will be moved to the next Tuesday and fully devoted to the draft laws on the principles of internal and external policy that we absolutely need. Now, let's move on to the following questions. Is there no objection? Thank you. You are being reviewed by the draft Act on the Treatment of Disposal of Private Property. Please replace the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Is there a Vladimir Josephovich? Please invite him to the hall, and we will now consider the next question. Come on. draft law on property reprivatisation in Ukraine. People's deputy Semenyuk. A bill on seed and gardening material. The rapporteur is the head of the subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk. Is Sergey Mikolaiovich here? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations presents for consideration in the first reading a bill on seed and vegetable material. The production of vegetable seed is at the heart of the intensification of agriculture in general and of vegetation in particular. Forest management, floral and medicinal plants. The organization of this matter depends on many sectors of the country’s economy and ultimately its food independence. New varieties and hybrids are known to account for about 40 percent of the increase in agriculture, gardening, and grapes. This is one of the major factors in crop production. The importance of this problem is also evident from the fact that the seed’s cost, based on the structure of the sown areas, is about 6 billion dollars. Another half billion is needed for sotosamine, sottoionation. In addition, our country has a powerful scientific potential that allows selective work at the current level to produce enough high-quality seeds of different cultures. I can tell you that we have about 100 national scientific institutions, of which 3,300 are selectors, almost half are doctors and science candidates. So far, the Seed Act has been in force in Ukraine, which regulates production and implementation. During the period since its adoption, 1993, there have been significant changes in the organization of agricultural production, the activities of scientific institutions dealing with plant selection in the seed system. They are motivated, first and foremost, by reforming agriculture, changing the legislative framework for land relations, as well as the implementation of seed materials. The above factors, as well as the development of international economic relations, such as the expansion of seed imports, dictate the need for a new law in this complex of seed and seedlings. Your opinion is proposed by the new bill "On Seeds and Gardening Material", prepared by the group of National Deputies of Yukhnov, Oleg Ivanovich, Svatkov, Cemistrenk, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, he was approved at the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. The explanation for the need for the adoption of the law is given in an explanatory note given along with a draft by the National Deputies. I would like to emphasize the following. The basic provisions of the law govern the production, implementation, and use of seeds and plantations of forest, forest, floral, decorative, and medicinal plants. Its purpose is to create a single system of production, implementation, and circulation of seeds. Today, in Ukraine, all these chains work in a different way, they are not united in common interests, and so we have such a situation that often the seed is either missing or very low in quality, and we cannot find the extreme one who should incur the inadequacy of the seed. Today, some of the seeds, including corn, have been imported into our country outside, if, 15 years ago, Ukraine was exporting both to Russia and to the former Soviet Union and to the countries of Europe. The draft law clearly defines the sectoral terms, objects and entities of seed, planting, and the legal and regulatory basis for the authorization of State authorities in the field of seed and planting. The bill provides for the scientific provision of the seed system, the establishment and use of the state seed fund, and the insurance seed funds. This is of great importance, considering that most of Ukraine’s regions are at risk. It is important and necessary to obtain government licenses for the production of seed and planting material, the introduction of compulsory certification. We have to get every seed producer to have a license and it's certified. Only certified subjects should have the right to produce and implement seeds. This is how the seed system is built in most parts of the world. And the absence of this in Ukraine has led to frequent falsifications of certified documents that cover up innocuous materials of unknown reproductions. As a result, the market is filled with low - quality seed materials that cause great economic damage, resulting in significant crop shortages. This should be supported by an appropriate mechanism, rather rigid licensing conditions, if we really want to have a seed that fits the quality parameters. The draft law regulates the import of seeds and seed materials into Ukraine and exports abroad. This legal norm is of great importance to the protection of domestic producers, scientific developments in the field of selection. It is not a secret that many seeds of sugar beet, corn, grass, and flowers are imported in Ukraine other than the seeds of vegetables. Its implementation is often carried out at the price of dumping. In recent years, corn, sugar beet, and sunflower seeds have been introduced into Ukraine, which in most cases are non-regional, sown between 10 and 40 percent of the sown areas. At the same time, our manufacturers are able to provide not only their own needs for the seeds of all cultures but also export them in large quantities. The introduction of the proposed law will allow for the restoration of the seed markets lost by Ukraine. Next. The bill provides State support to the sector in part of the investment, the cost of production of regional and elite seed and seedlings. Of course, this situation in the future will have to be in line with the budget code. It should also be noted that the adoption of the seed law, the gardening material, provides for the legal regulation of all aspects of the problem. At the same time, the introduction of the law would be a strong economic step by the State. Establishing proper seeding, protecting domestic producers, reducing the shadow circle of seeds will allow, according to experts, more than 100 million dollars per year to be added to the budget. An analysis shows that the increase in crop yields for agricultural crops, based on seeding of promising varieties and hybrids within 5 percent, will result in an increase in gross production of about 2 billion dollars. Thus, honourable fellow MPs, the draft Ukrainian seed law and garden material are objectively necessary legal instruments aimed primarily at the order and protection of the country's seed, the creation of a seed system in Ukraine, the stabilization of the seed market, the effective economic action that will ensure a significant benefit for both the seed subjects and the State as a whole. Of course, the proposed bill requires further work on the proposals made by the national MPs. But in the future, it can become a legislative act that, along with the law on the protection of plant rights, on grain and the market of grain that we have recently adopted with you, on quarantine of plants and others will allow for the development of a code of Ukrainian laws on agriculture, as adopted in many countries, as adopted in the European Union. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached a positive conclusion on the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on seed, a gardening material on a basis. I ask you, fellow MPs, to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, is the question to the reporter understood? If you have any, please sign in. Put it on the board, please. National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u61	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. First of all, I want to support Sergio Mikolaiovich's bill and thank you for the fruitful work we had with you in working out this document. I think we're going to work on it and we're going to accept it, because it's actually a document that allows us to be competitive today, especially in the external market, and it's a desire to bring our legislation into line with the standards of the Council of Europe to go to the external market with our seed. So first of all, I'm not as much of a question as I'd like to ask my colleagues: to support this bill, because it's some kind of appropriate lever to protect my manufacturer, and the seed in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u62	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Please, National Deputy Kalinchuk, Agrarian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u63	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian agrarians. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, of course, has a positive bill -- the establishment of a seed certification and registration project and planting material will exclude the possibility of accessing Ukraine's inefficient production of what you've been talking about. But I have a question for you. The draft law gives manufacturers the right, this article 23, to import uncertified, or uncertified seed for their own purposes. Would it not be possible for them to sow the seed, and for the following year they are selling it as their own, that is, the same unrecognizable uncertified seed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u64	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the law must prohibit the introduction of uncertified seeds into Ukraine at all, not for their own purposes, at all, from being imported. The committee supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u65	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, please tell me that I have already heard that certain European standards are being implemented in this law, but in the Eurasian direction of our relationship, what and how is provided in this law to improve this issue of gardening material in relations with the Russian Federation, with Kazakhstan, because it seems to me that, first of all, under living conditions, and the conditions of production we have more interest in this particular direction than in European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u67	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. The law does not focus on European states, the law primarily regulates the legal relationship between the subjects involved in the seed. That's the first one. Second, it creates a system of creating its own seed in the state. Say yes, everything is different today. The Academy of Sciences is working on one, elite. The first group above the second, seed factories above the third. And in the end, we can't find someone responsible for the quality of the seed. Four. We want to create conditions for our seed to be sold to other nations. And for that, of course, it is necessary to study this seed in those lands, testing, and entering state records. This also requires additional funds. Thus, the law is designed to make Ukraine a nation that exports seeds to all countries of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u68	National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikhailovich, you have put a very important problem in place and a vital one. You just said that in the near past, there was only one agrarian sphere and the only complex that was scientifically based and circumstantial, not natural, but related to the respective characteristics of the soil. Are we today able to impose on those latifundists who already have colossal areas, as we discussed in this session hall today, in what way can we impose on them the kind we need? How can this be resolved? For one thing, how do we bind seed stations, scientific institutions with specific lands, and specific areas of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u70	Thank you for asking. The point is that we should not impose, on the contrary, we should recommend the planting of varieties and hybrids that are located in one area or another. That's why we have a whole network of test stations that, based on research, make conclusions and bring one or the other classes into registers with circuits in one area or another. So all of this is provided for by the laws of the present. And this is further improved by the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u71	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u72	Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Sergey Mikolaiovich, you once answered a question and said that this bill was in no way being followed, perhaps so to speak, under European laws. But we have declared our European choice. Today we've called a lot of auditors, today and the institute and so on. They all agree on how our laws work and whether they meet the requirements of the Council of Europe. And that's why I'd like to ask you. Indeed, today the project you are proposing to us is in line with the requirements of the WTO, for today we have announced that we are about to join this world organization tomorrow. Are they responding to these requirements or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u73	The basic positions are being addressed. Those are the requirements that. The materials, they're responding. Otherwise, we will not be able to trade with European states, neither Asia, Russia, nor Belarus. The question was not about amending the law that was passed in 1993 but about adopting a new law in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u74	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss this law. If there is, please sign up. No one was writing down, so we're finishing the discussion. We'll decide when we vote. Dear colleagues, we need to consider two short-term projects, as we agreed. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities in order to organize the licensing system. We need to hear a report from the State Committee on Regulatory Policy, or we can just say two in favour, two in the opposite. Then let's hear it. Please, Trelakov Sergey Ivanovich, deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A bill that is proposed for your consideration is designed to clarify certain rules that have not changed in the last two years and to solve certain problems. During this period, special laws have established appropriate new activities that are licensed and separate new standards that define the specific features of licensing for each particular activity. All of this has led to certain coalitions, which, in turn, have resulted in negative consequences for business operators themselves, as well as abuses by executive authorities that issue licences. In such laws as financial services and government regulation of financial services markets, television and radio broadcasting, electricity, and so forth, there are no rules related to the issuance, transformation or cancellation of licences, licensing, and the establishment of clear and transparent rules for State regulation of activities subject to restrictions. Therefore, it is suggested that a number of changes and additions be made specifically to clarify the ratios of the direct action law on licensing certain types of business with the rules of specific laws. So these are the main additions. First. Introduce the principle of applying the rules of special laws that set out the specific features of licensing in comparison with the general rules of the Licensing Act. The other one. Introduce the extension of the provisions of the Act on the licensing of activities already established by other laws. Third. There is a separate refinement of the formulation of certain types of farming activities and so forth. Establish at the legislative level the distribution of licensing powers from central and local authorities and from all levels to the present fifty - seven. Fifth. To take into account the requirements of the Law on the State Register of Tax Payers, which provides for the preservation of established forms of tax collection if a citizen refuses because of his religious and other beliefs regarding the assignment of a particular identification number. And the failure to notify your own ID number in the licence application, according to existing legislation, is the basis for a possible stay of the application without consideration. Six. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, licenseing activities in the areas of certain natural monopolies and adjacent markets. Seven. In accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Budget, the order for the issuance of licences and the redesign of licences, the issuance of copies of licences, and the issuance of duplicate licences. Please support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u76	Questions. Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Light up on the board. Please, National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u77	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The question that is to be settled in this law is understandable. Please tell me if there's any way to determine how our nation can benefit from this. will there be an increase in the revenue from the State licensing budget, or will conditions be created that will lead to an improvement in economic activity? And can we then determine how positive this will be when it comes to the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u78	Thank you for asking. Yeah, maybe. I can give a positive answer to that question. I can only recall one example when the issue of the cancellation or cancellation of licenses for alcohol and tobacco has not been determined for nearly a year. and tobacco. When you remember that the law on government regulation of the production of alcohol, alcohol and tobacco was passed on to alcohol and tobacco under the licensing law. The law did not define either the order of cancellation or the order of cancellation of licences, suspension, or licensing. In fact, this led to abuse by both the public authorities and the business entities themselves, which could violate legislation, but there was no way to revoke their license. Moreover, there are some clearer standards for the use of measures. So to subjects who have not obtained licences or who are working to violate licensing requirements. This will directly lead to an increase in the budget, an increase in the budget, so I'd like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina Dear reporter! There has long been a registration system around the world, i.e. all kinds or licenses, registrations, people starting their business and registering only in the tax system to pay their taxes. We sat down with you, I say, and you and I sat on a level of discretion. Where there is a level of clearance, that is, every official needs permission. As many permits as you can, you know without me. There's a bribe to be given at all levels. I've been studying this law, and frankly, I don't really believe that it liberalizes the situation, because if it makes it harder to get a license, it's going to increase the level of bribes. In general, I support this trend because, let's say, the National Broadcasting and Television Council issues licences entirely under the law -- just according to its own instructions that it developed. This is a step forward, is it liberalisation or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u81	I think it's the liberalisation of these rules of law. Why? Because a number of activities have already been outlawed by the License Act. Why? Because this law for the first time set clear and transparent standards for business subjects. In fact, any subject who wants a license for the time being can read all these requirements and get a license. And in order to get out, to blur out all of these conditions, some of these activities have been introduced. That's the first one. It's different. Licensing is part of an arbitrary system. And the allowable system you're talking about is permission, in fact, to initiate entrepreneurial activities, that is, starting with opening up your own business. And the licensing system is operating all over the world. We believe that the next step, and we are already working on it, will be to agree on or create the only conditions that apply, namely the introduction of an application principle, registration, licensing and licenses from the start of the registration to the start of our own business.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u82	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u83	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear reporter, you know, I remember very well in 1997, when a whole package of tax laws was dropped in the session hall, where we then named the MPs as a tax revolution. Then it was suggested that a bill should create 68 types of licenses, create a corresponding structure, and the main thing was that then it felt like every department wanted to sit down to issue licenses. I will not, in fact, repeat what Mr. Yavorowski said today. Now there's another way -- in each type you're introducing a separate license, and every department comes under it. Today you're proposing about the market fund, before that there was sugar, before that there was other mediated activity. Do you think then the deputies of the Supreme Council did the right thing by rejecting it? And will we be longer, how many more times will we be doing such activities? And what other ministry or department is going to do, because we've already figured it out? How many of these will be made in order to make sure that we can see such messages and provide appropriate documents? The question I'm asking is, the President was right, I've never supported him, but to stop making stupid documents that weren't actually supported in the year 97.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u84	I'd like you to rephrase the questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u85	I told him.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u86	I'd like to say this to you: so our opinion, the less activities are licensed, the better. If you remember, in 97th year, this law was introduced, and in 98th year this licensing law was passed, where at first there were only 42 instead of two hundred species. And almost one and a half thousand types of work that had previously been licensed were eliminated. In the last two years, it has increased from forty - two to sixty - four. We continue to insist that there are as few licensed species as possible. Well, as to accept these types for licensing by law, we already have to find the mechanisms for simplifying licensing, simplifying the mechanisms for obtaining these licences, simplifying the protection of an entrepreneur who has been licensed and trying to work with this license within the legislative framework. That is why we fully support it. If you, the next step of ours, are already, the government is already supported, it is a reduction in activities, that is, in the ninth article. But for the time being, if you suggest... we'll only support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u87	Thank you. Question time's up, thank you. Who will be speaking from the committee? Vladimir Cherniak? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment discussed at its meeting the draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. You know that this law was passed in 2000. The practice of applying this law has shown the need to improve the licensing system, that is, the practice has revealed the shortcomings of our law, the Supreme Council of Law. If you want, we are now dealing with the consequences of our legislative activity. By the way, it is so common that we adopt the law, and in a very short time we make amendments to it. This is evidence that we do not always bake high - quality legislative mills. Well, that's the subject of a separate conversation. I'm just taking the opportunity to say it. What is one of the positive aspects of the bill from the point of view of the committee? This is a clearer distinction between licensing authorities. This is the introduction of the extension of the scope of the law to activities that are licensed by special laws that take account of the features of licensing. So we've passed special laws that talk about licensing. And now we're including this in the framework law. In line with the Code of Budgets, rules relating to the order of payment for issuance, redesign of licences, the issuance of copies and duplicate licences are applied. Here are the three main positive points that our committee is celebrating. In general, the committee concludes that this bill should be adopted in the first reading and processed in preparation for the second reading. Now it's my personal opinion. In general, I share the committee's opinion, but I agree with those deputies who asked questions here today. The point is that these amendments do not solve all the problems of licensing and that they improve the law, but not to the extent or degree that it is free from shortcomings. I'm a proponent of what a permissive principle is, not a license. Although it must be said that there are activities that are licensed around the world. And so let's not wave too much a pattern that we can only give permission and all. For example, medicines, medicines, such as the provision of certain medical services, and so forth. That is to say, licensing is necessary, but only to the extent that it is really necessary and is not the basis for the employee to take bribes. Therefore, it should be clear that what areas of activity should be licensed. And that's true: the smaller they are, the better, but it should be exactly where it's needed. And finally, the last killer argument in favor of enacting this law. If we do not accept an amendment to this law, the old law will be in force. And it's worse than the one we're going to amend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u89	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Kirilovich, they want to ask you questions. It doesn't, does it? Please, Yavorowski, one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski. My dear colleague, I agree with you all over the world to adopt the law, then it grinds, life tells you to make adjustments, here you say very clearly. And you've made a very strong statement about the pastries in Parliament, and I agree with you. How do you think, or perhaps really, that we should introduce a license for the right of parliamentary activity? Then you can imagine what a unified and beautiful parliament would be like? How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u91	I agree with you completely, but I'm afraid we may not be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, let's move on to discussion: two for, two against. National MP Tsushko signed up, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u93	Honourable colleagues of the people, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich. So that's what the law is about. I want to remember a story. This law may be adopted in addition to excluding the licensing of alcohol and tobacco products. Why? This is all licensed under the Act on State regulation of the traffic in alcohol, tobacco and alcohol. And I remind you, colleagues of the last assembly, you remember the discussion, and Vladimir Kirilović, as co-rapporteur, you remember, too, because your committee, Moscow, was in charge of this law. And then we adopted it to include the licensing of tobacco and alcohol in that law, and then with your consent, we ruled it out. No, they did it right. But Mr. Trelakov and his colleagues, it's a struggle between agencies, they're dragging the rope, and the fact is that licensing alcohol and tobacco is not easy to license. I agree with everyone else, it has to be authorized. And a license for tobacco and alcohol is put into the budget for 90 million bracelets. And now there's a fight. First, if you remember, there was a Ukrespecmonoply that led to a system that led to bribery when licenses were issued. It was then successfully eliminated. To guide the order, these activities have been transferred to one agency, and, Vladimir Kirilovich, I recall, we have conducted hearings of whole committees, inviting businessmen and all those involved in both wholesale trade and production, and we have all insisted that it be in one department and that it be in one law. Therefore, by decree of the President, with the consent of the State, and the Committee on Finance and Banking, this was transferred to the tax administration to be concentrated in one place. There's a fight going on. Because it is the most delicious piece, you understand what a license for alcohol, tobacco and wholesale trade is, and there is a struggle between agencies. And Mr. Tretyakov, I congratulate them, they managed to pass it through Kabmin and take it to the hall. But the last Parliament has dealt with this issue twice. If we adopt alcohol and tobacco in this way, come back, we're going to be confused, because in that law, it's all fixed up to bits. And this law will be considered, now prepared by the tax administration, the Government has agreed. I can tell you from the Minister of Finance that this law is to be repaired, i.e. orderly, because today there are more than a billion bracelets of alcohol and tobacco. But the greedy piece, give me the license system. That's the question. That's why I have a proposal. Take it on first reading. Our committee supports this, but it was as if regulation on everything else, Vladimir Krillovich, I agree that they should be in this licensing, but alcohol and tobacco are tax goods, there is a special procedure, and it is enshrined in the Law on State Regulation. Thank you. To the second reading or to the first, but in the first decision, to say that it would be repaired that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! Since there are no more willing to participate in this discussion, we will consider that we have completed this consideration, and we will be determined when we vote on the decision. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity as regards the order of admission to the stock market of its professional participants. Oleg Mikolaiovich Brain, please. Considering that we need to consider a few other important bills, I would like to ask us to work quickly on this issue. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity has been drafted to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential decree on additional measures for the development of the Ukrainian stock market since 26 March 2001. The project was discussed on committees on industrial policy and on the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment. The aim of the project is to enforce a separate controlled order of admission to the stock market of its professional participants, which is in line with the law. accepted in international practice. The bill proposes to amend and supplement articles 2 and 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which provide for the licensing of professional participants in the stock market, in accordance with special legislation governing activities in the Ukrainian securities market. It's the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the Ukrainian Securities Market. In this regard: First. Part 2 of Article 2 after the words “banking activity” add to the words “professional activity in the securities market”, And the second. Article 9, which lists the types of commercial activities that are subject to licensing, according to the Ukrainian law on licensing for certain types of economic activity, paragraph 57, “professional activities in the market for securities”, excludes them. These changes relate to the fact that the introduction of a simplified licensing procedure, provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, in relation to professional activities in the market for securities, results in negative socio-economic consequences, in particular the weakening of control over the activities of market participants of securities that ensure the performance of contracts with these papers, the accounting of ownership rights, the clearance and settlement of securities contracts, and the management of assets of investment investors. Prior to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, the State Commission issued licences to professional participants on condition that certain requirements were met. That is, the requirements for the size of the statutory fund paid, the order and the sources of its formation, the qualification requirements for employees, the requirements for premises, equipment, technical equipment, and, in particular, the requirements for the internal regulatory framework of professional participants without which they cannot start their activities. The specific features of professional activities, I'd like to add, in the securities market, are that third-party interests, a large number of owners of securities, both residents and non-residents are affected. The inevitable appearance in the market of securities of unfavourable licensed participants, which the State Securities Commission, at the stage of the simplified licensing procedure, will not formally prevent a motivated refusal to issue licences and control their full compliance with current legislation, will lead to numerous violations of the rights of holders of securities, as well as to undermine the confidence of potential domestic and foreign investors in the market for securities in Ukraine and the State as a whole. I'd like to add some more. The argument behind the adoption of this bill is that the Final Provisions of Article 8 of the Final Provisions of the Financial Services Act and the State Regulation of the Securities Market have been completed after the words “licensing banking activities” have been added to the words “financial services activities”. One type of financial service today is securities trading, securities clearing. Thus, in our view, it is appropriate and objectively necessary to change, supplement, and bring into line with Article 9 of the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u96	Thank you. The question to the reporter is, Your Honor, are there any questions? If so, please sign up. Please point it on the board. Please, National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u97	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Oleg Mikolaiovich, I have had this example in my practice when a large group of peasants asked me to help them resolve the issue in the justice of the solution to the value of the property that was bankrupt. The cost of this property was done and defined its activities and determined the cost of one, a small group, a small enterprise, the same, that defines the business in the securities market. To this day, people cannot find someone who would give them such professional advice, whether this firm, while it had a license to carry out a professional activity, has determined the value of this property. They seek justice. Please indicate what you can do in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u98	Well, if you do. I'd love to. This subject is very important, thank you for asking. Indeed, what is involved in the valuation of assets, such as an enterprise today? Unfortunately, for today's day of such mechanisms, there are different methods, these methods can be used by those licensed participants that provide such services. In our view, more civilized are the ways that are being proposed today, including the Cabinet of Ministers, and the draft Law on concentration of trade by investment firms in an organized market for securities. We now have a license for a sufficient number of trade organizers, the stock market that exists today. Unfortunately, however, at the last meeting of the Committee on Banking and Finance, there was no argument regarding the concentration of business in a secondary market that would be able to estimate the market value of the securities of one or more attractive businesses. This is the first step. The ideal situation is for them to concentrate their trade on all stock companies, which today are 36,000, stock companies, to concentrate on an organized market. And it's only through an organized market that you can answer the real price of an enterprise. Unfortunately, all of these methods have, let's say, all of these methods have some pluses and minuses and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u99	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u100	Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Now the second reporter we're looking at is saying that he's better at licensing than anything else. But there's a practice around the world that's the only organ, it's called a committee or whatever else it is called, or a licensing chamber, and they tell me, and they issue licenses. So you think it's better that you issue licences like the Stock Market Commission when the stock market doesn't work or should we create a separate body that does it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u101	As for the functioning of the stock market, I would like to say that in 2001, the volume of securities in the market was about 69 billion. That's right. Does it work or doesn't it work? 69 billion. Grief! And so in this market today, they are doing their work as professional participants in 854 securities dealers. That's 86 custodians, 368 registers, 7 stock exchanges, two trading systems. I don't say well or bad. I'm saying that today the law on state regulation sets out requirements for financial intermediaries who. And then there's the law on investment, the finalization of projects, the development of normative documents, the law on non-state pension funds, the involvement of individuals. We should not just approach a situation where we can, let's say, cancel the license because he hasn't given any information at the same time, we need to work with such professional participants, because the interested people here are third parties -- owners, shareholders. Small, big, small. So what I would like to say is that today we need to work out effective requirements especially for financial intermediaries. Will it be a single organ? You can approach the same organ. And I just wanted to say that today we can't go about simplifying the requirements of structures like financial intermediaries in the securities market, especially those where the costs of individuals are involved. That's what this bill is about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Question time is up. Oleg Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, would you like to speak on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u103	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am obliged to carry out my duties as a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u104	I misphrase the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would hate for you to see me as a lawyer or an apologist of licensing. I'm in charge of the committee. But with regard to this bill, I feel no particular remorse, since it is practically a matter of reducing licensing facilities, and that is why it is in harmony with the spirit of the permissive principle in the air of the session hall. That's why it's easy for me to communicate with the committee because it's practically in line with my own mind. The Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. It's the same law that we talked about before, but it's different changes and so another bill. The purpose of this bill is to organize the licensing of professional activities in the securities market. This particular subject is the licensing of professional activities in the securities market. In fact, it's about the functioning of the capital market in Ukraine, about the financial intermediaries, about the investment activity. So these changes are very important, and I hope they play a positive role. The bill proposes that the licensing of professional activities in the securities market should take place in accordance with the special laws governing relations in this area, i.e. it proposes to exclude from the scope of the Ukrainian Law on licensing certain types of economic activity activities related to professional activity in the securities market. Actually, that's the problem I was talking about today and Tsushko. And in general, speaking conceptually, it's a problem of the relationship between the framework law and the special laws. I don't think we have a final concept on this. I'm a proponent of what should be a framework law, where all of the issues in question should be resolved conceptually, and special laws dealing with the specificity of licensing of certain activities. So I can't make a clear statement. Which is better, it's probably worth looking at in every particular case. By the way, I agree with the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which concludes that it would be better to combine these two laws into one law and one law to give them to another. But it's probably hard to do that right now. I think there's probably two bills. Although the committee will consider the matter. If we can do it, we'll get a bill. The conclusion of the committee: The bill is proposed to the Supreme Council to accept it on the basis of the first reading and to assign it to the committee to work on the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators, i.e. each of you can submit its proposals and we will take them into account in the preparation of the bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, is there a question for Vladimir Kirilovich? None. Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's see who signed up for the show. No one's signed up. So we share the committee's opinion. Let us conclude this discussion. We'll make a decision when we vote. Dear colleagues, we should consider a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on assistance to low - income families. But before that, we need to consider a draft law to reach, I'm just asking your attention, to this law, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on how to explain the activities of government authorities and local self-government authorities in Ukraine in the media. The author of this bill is National MP Bespalij Boris Jakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u107	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I have the honour to present to you a bill that I have tabled with Vladimir Bondarenko and Yuri Yehanurov on amending the Ukrainian Law on the manner in which public authorities and local self-government in Ukraine are informed by the media. The title of the bill, as you have just heard, is very complex. And the essence of it is extremely simple. Today's law limits the ability of the Supreme Council to make a government order to explain its work by three percent of the speech on each channel. And this is actually a legal basis for why our determinations, those that envision direct broadcasting on the first channel, cannot be implemented. This three - percent limit hinders. True, it can be done by commercial television companies, one of them, specifically Radiorox does it, but it's a drop in the sea. I would like to stress that the adoption of this bill does not provide for a direct broadcast of Parliament’s sessions. This is done by a separate decree of the Supreme Council. But without the adoption of this law, we are deprived of the ability to decide whether we should be broadcast directly or not, direct meetings. And the second is no less important, or perhaps even more important. Without the adoption of this small law, it is virtually impossible to create a parliamentary television channel or a parliamentary radio channel. Indeed, what would be behind the parliamentary channel if there were less than three percent of Parliament’s work on it. So this moment is even more important. Now, what specific changes we're proposing. In article 9 of the Act, we simply propose to delete the phrase one single, that the Supreme Council's government order is carried out within 3 percent of the annual volume of speech. The axis and everything, that's a little line and there's a lot of meaning behind it. In what sense is the adoption of this law still appropriate? These are the popular standards of democracy that predict transparency in the work of power. Power must be, excuse me, like in the aquarium. The second point is to protect the rights of our voters. Bulhakov once said that there is no second freshness. I think information can be either the first freshness or none. Third. To this day, publicizing Parliament’s work is sometimes something that you will never understand or understand. And the step that we have to take today is a step towards equal media opportunities for the various political forces represented in Parliament. And finally. Tonics, financial and budgetary opportunities. It's the simplest and technically simplest and cheapest transmission that audiences are interested in, as we know. And there is no need for additional spending from the State and local budgets to adopt the law. Instead, the bill needs your support, your esteemed colleagues, your support for the vote. I am personally, frankly, in this support, and I have no doubt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I have an offer. Everyone, I think, understands the question. We should not debate so that it does not appear that the Supreme Council cares solely for itself. I propose that we vote on Thursday without opening a debate. Is there no objection? Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. So we're done talking about this. We'll make a decision on Thursday. You are considering a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on providing assistance to low - income families. Rapporteur, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Peter Pavlovich Ovcharenko Please, Peter Pavlovich. I'd like to ask you, this is also a question for us to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I have the honour to present you with a draft law designed to amend the current laws of Ukraine on State aid to families with children and on State social assistance to low-income families. These changes are caused by what has been said to date, and there are virtually similar mechanisms for determining the size of aid under these two laws and not excluding each other. Such disagreements lead to the simultaneous appointment of two forms of assistance to low - income families, thus violating the principle of social justice. One family receives double - size assistance and the other does not receive it at all because of inadequate budget allocations. Thus, the draft law proposes to unify the payment of assistance to low-income families by preserving only one form of state social assistance for low-income families and financing it at the expense of state - budget subsidies. The draft law also provides for the improvement of the mechanism for determining the right of a low-income family to be granted State social assistance, which has been demonstrated by almost two years' practice of granting it, as well as numerous appeals by honourable national deputies, citizens and local authorities. In particular, the bill is designed to specify family composition, identify important and independent reasons why the family has a monthly total income lower than the family’s subsistence minimum, investigate the availability of additional sources of livelihood, and determine how they can be used to raise incomes that affect the size of assistance. The introduction of this law will, in our view, ensure targetedness and a differentiated approach to providing State social assistance to low-income families, as well as the priority of families with children in the state support system for low-income groups. These are the main issues and changes in the source of funding for low-income families and the need for appropriate amendments to the 2003 draft of the State Budget make it extremely relevant to adopt the bill in a timely manner. The bill is carefully considered by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and is proposed to the honourable Supreme Council to accept as a basis. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please sign up then. Light up on the board. Please, Mikola Melniczuk, Mikhailo Melniczuk, excuse me, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u111	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Of course, an honourable report, such a bill is essential to our society and the faction of the Socialist Party will certainly support it. The answer to the time when our citizens were being robbed by the trusts and the same socially unsecured or under-secured, when people were being blown up, is that we will really support it, because it is absolutely necessary. But please tell low-income families whether they are controlled by the state when the low-income state on Mercedes is adequately assisted, the well-packaged people who make good money abroad are maintaining their family, and they are supported by the same state as the poor. Please tell me that I recently listened to a young mother who gave birth to two children and for this reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u112	Unplug it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u113	One minute, I'm asking you this question. One child costs 700 dollars to give birth is to buy a little bit, pay the doctor, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u114	Please release.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u115	What is the return of the nation of the young mother who gave birth to the child?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u116	Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u117	Thank you for asking and thank you for your support. It's this bill that regulates, regulates all the processes you're talking about, and takes into account the same component as the property positions of a family, including the Mercedes you're talking about. And that includes an institution such as a social inspector who will have the right to check a number of positions that grant the right to receive state social assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u118	Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u119	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Peter Pavlovich, we've already talked about this on the committee, the law is absolutely necessary, it's in place. In particular, I would like to tell you that in the Zaporozhye region, because of the confusion of these laws, the cost of social assistance to families today is millions of dollars. In particular, the bills provide subsidies to local budgets at the expense of Ukraine’s State budget. Please tell me, how do you view this as a transcript to make changes in the second reading to the Pre-Acquittal Regulations that provide for a provision for the law to be put into effect?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u120	I support your offer, and in the second reading, we'll see it all coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u121	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u122	I think so too, and our faction supports the bill. I believe that it should be accepted as an update from the Supreme Council — assistance to low - income families. But what I'm concerned about is the development of what Deputy Suhi has already said, won't this law be like a lot of our laws of social paper law? What is the financial side of the matter? Will it be financially provided? We already have a very large amount of money left unpaid, billed, but not paid to those in need. And by the way, we don't do the control function here as a parliament. I mean, if we don't adopt the law, it's practically not going to be financially secure and it's not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u123	Thank you for asking. The question is very important, it refers to financial security. I would like to remind you that for 2002, families with children and children with disabilities and persons with disabilities have been budgeted for the year, and this is equivalent to 1 billion 100 million. Under 100% funding, this cost is completely sufficient. To date, however, a total of 10,744 million has been refinanced to help families with children, debt. I say by family with children, the debt is today 30 million, which is planned by the end of the month, this October of the month to pay off completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u124	Thank you. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u125	Boris Bespalij, 223 constituency, city of Kiev My dear reporter, all the deputies who receive citizens in the districts know that this is not even number one, but number zero. And it seems to me that if you've been addressing, it's the executive power that's the only system, to the state budget developers for the next year, so that the whole part is protected, these expenditures in the budget, and they're being made in full and filled up with appropriate sources of funding. But I have one more question. That's the limit of undersecurity, that's all. What resources are being sought to increase, not once, but to raise to an appropriate level these permanent social benefits, i.e. minimum payments to those who are malnourished in such families? Then, perhaps, there will be less need for one - time assistance. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u126	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the government, the ministry, including, is taking the most active part in the development of the 2003 budget. And all the questions you're talking about in terms of funding are against us. And some amount, I want to confirm, and the State Committee from the budget of the Supreme Council, and tomorrow we're going to look at, you know, this number. What is almost entirely provided in the project’s funding of these types of social assistance. God forbid we're just going to get it. As for the one-time thing, there is really a question here. Today, when the Supreme Council discussed the minimum wage, when it looked at where to find sources of funding, it was in one aspect. And I think there will be a time when there will be both financial and economic opportunities to provide a minimum of living as required by the Social Standards Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u127	Thank you. The time for questions and questions to be asked has also come to an end. Peter Pavlovich thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a 15-minute offer to continue our work. The committee, Vasil Georgievicz Hara said, fully agrees with the project he proposed. Do we need to discuss this? Nobody insists? So we're going to finish the question. We'll decide when we vote. Dear colleagues, I ask that today we formally finish our consideration of the session, once again see the draft Law on the Supplementation of Part Two of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions, so that the Head of State Tourism Administration will briefly and quickly report to us. There's a very simple law, but there's probably a lot behind it. We'll expect that there's a lot of money for the tourist industry. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It is a well-known question, as it is said, with the beard there is no need to convince the national MPs of this issue today, but I am deeply grateful to a large group of national deputies who have agreed to enter into a multicultural association to support the development of the tourist sphere of Ukraine, and we are counting on the promotion, creation of appropriate normative acts that will contribute to the development of the tourist area that many countries live in. In this regard, I could make an appropriate report on this supplement. But it is clear that the world practice of constructing various objects under concessions allows investment, including internal and foreign investments, to be made in the construction of various objects. It's about a hotel farm. Unfortunately, we are in a difficult condition in the country, and we need to take these steps. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u128	Please, is there a question for the reporter? If there is, please sign up. Please point it on the board. Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u129	The bill is very relevant. I share the idea that we should support him. There is a need to develop the tourist industry in Ukraine. I think this is one way for us to engage in investment and create a positive image of Ukraine in the world. And if we make money, we can go around the world on our own. So this is a mutual benefit. The emphasis in this bill is on household chores. It's the most painful point, the pain point in the tourist area in Ukraine, and it's clear that money, investment and ours are needed, and foreign involvement. But I have a question like, do you think, Valery Ivanovich, does the mechanism for investing in the construction in Ukraine of the mining industry work, or is it sufficient here, as it were, incentives, and how do you predict the course of events? Thank you. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ V.I. I would like to say that for the next 10 years there is a great need for hotel construction, more than 6 billion dollars to build a hotel farm and, of course, to rebuild, to put our hotel farm in order, as they say, in order. And of course there's no money in the state. And we know that it's a mechanism that's just an extension of the possibility, as it were, of State lending the concession, because it's given by the state as a concessionaire to rent, to rent for 49 years, to rent an appropriate object, to build. After a certain period of time, this object returns to the State. That's how I think it's a good mechanism that's already working in many countries around the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u130	Vitaliy Yakovic Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u131	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I, you said right here that some countries actually live at the expense of tourism. But what I'd like to ask you is, this year, how much is involved in the budget and does this law really justify the money involved in the future for the construction, for the building up of a special business, because what is today interfering with, if you'll excuse me, with the involvement of foreign investors in general? There is an appropriate legislative framework, only guarantees should be provided by the state. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Just from the last question of yours, what's the big deal? - the State's guarantee is the concession mechanism. These are guarantees from the state. And with regard to the contribution of the tourist sector, I can say that only the tourist sector, this is a hotel farm and a sanatorium complex last year, has provided services for one and a half billion dollars. When you talk about total revenue, as all countries in the world count, it's both transport, and other sectors that work, it's over 50 branches, it's 20 billion. The sum of the total services provided that are now working for the economy of Ukraine. Of course, this is small with other countries, because unfortunately we have a lot to do. First of all, in the development of tourism infrastructure, advertising and information activities, for which money is needed. Of course, it's about simplifying all kinds of formalities that are disturbing us, of course, about providing quality services and training. We are working on these issues with the support of both the government and the President of Ukraine, and, of course, the Supreme Council, I have already said that. I hope it will be a bigger contribution. We think that our potential capabilities are being used not just a third or less if we actually included this mechanism at these levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u132	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, will the committee give a speech? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The current nature of the bill is due to the initial need to create a favourable investment climate in the tourism sector, in particular with the orientation of capital investments in the development of the material basis of the Ukrainian tourist recovery complex. More than 3,000 health and recreation facilities are used for tourist services, of which 1,200 are state-owned, 1,300 hotels, campsites, motels and other accommodation facilities. Exploitation during the period of mass tourism in 60-80 g. The 20th century has led to the fact that so far, including 10 years of exploitation in Ukraine's independence, their capacity has certainly been exhausted. They should be brought into line with international standards. The Committee generally supports the bill and proposes to adopt it as follows: “Construction and operation of hotels, tourist complexes, campsites and other relevant tourist facilities”. This proposal does not change, but merely details, let us say, the article. In other words, this is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u134	Thank you. Questions. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u135	I'm surprised and outraged at what you said about independence. I respect the views of the Communists, of others, of all other factions. And Ukraine's independence is actually recognized by all the countries of the world. And I don't like much of what we have in terms of independence. But to say "so-called independence in the walls of parliament. Imagine the Parliament of any country in the world where the MP came out and talked so disrespectfully about independence. We can speak with disrespect for power, for ourselves, for anyone, but some things in the state that are elected by the state. And the people voted in a referendum on this. I mean, I'd just ask you to hold on, you're still a young MP, I'm fine with you, I respect you, I think you've had a conversation. And I think that's just unacceptable in Parliament. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm with you. I think that you, as the head of the Supreme Council at this point, should have made a note to the MP who is speaking and saying such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u136	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich, I've just listened to this moment, no matter what you're trying to hear. I think it's an embezzlement. And let's not have a discussion here. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Moreover, it had nothing to do with the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u137	Nevertheless, I think Vladimir Kirilovich is right here. Let's not start any discussions. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk Mikhailo, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The system's probably tired. No, it works. Put the card up right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u138	Maybe it won't work. Dear reporter! It would be nice to have a tour of Ivano-Frankivsk-Odessa, especially since we all know that there are large tourist objects there that even foreigners have a bearing on them. Do you think that these objects could be included in our nation’s overrun and that tourist routes would be appropriate? That would be. It would bring a lot of money to the state. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Well, that's a good question, but first of all, I think it should be about the head of the tourist administration. It's his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u139	Thank you. Those who want to ask questions have also come to an end. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-10-15-m1.u140	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues wishing to participate in the discussion, I see there is not. I would only ask the committee to finalize these two projects so that one project is put to the vote. And I think the project that's being proposed by the government is allowing for a wider view of the problem. Since the proposal made by the committees narrows down the scope of the tourist administration. Let's give them the opportunity to work creatively. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the issue is a draft law supplementing part two of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions has been completed. [[on the construction and operation of tourist sites]] As for the decision, we will be determined by the vote. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. I would like to take into account that tomorrow we will discuss the draft budget, in the first reading we will consider. Thanks for the job. Good-bye.
