ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! This morning’s meeting was entrusted to me by members of the Bureau. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. There were 404 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the issues set before the creation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There has just been a meeting of the Conciliation Council. On behalf of the factions and the Presidency, the word is given to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u2	Member of the Bureau of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich, we don't have a consensus board yet, because it's not fully stocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u3	It's from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u4	Yeah, she's not fully stocked. And there was a meeting of the leaders of all six political factions working in Parliament. They came to the conclusion that the negotiation process is ongoing, the packages agree. No factions or groups of new proposals for these packets have been submitted at this time. The proposal of all six factions is to make a proposal to the session hall to announce a break by Tuesday by 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u5	A few members of the people are asked to speak. The word is given to Mr. Aleksandro Aleksandrovitch. Then there's the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear fellow MPs! Honorable members of the Presidency! This is not shared by the Socialist factions. And I was talking about it at the council. The level of appearance is now high, and the candidatures of the Supreme Council are ready. We can start voting in 10 minutes. To that end, a procedural issue must be resolved: to put to the vote a draft resolution on voting on the agreed options that are available. And for that, I ask Stanislav Mikolaiovich to put my proposal to the vote. I also call on all the deputies who are set up for a constructive solution to this problem -- in any case, we have to solve it -- and we can get the answer that works up to about 12-12. 30, and then people will go home.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u7	The word is given to Alexander the Road. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Thank you. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! Clearly, we all get used to each other, and this will take a long time. But the situation is that the proposal of the factions of Ukraine and the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is not only accepted because it is an offer from them, which confirms its insignificance. [[united]] The process of negotiation is complex. We stressed the need to negotiate, and we never gave up. But it takes time. Today’s statement by a distinguished member of the Bureau confirms that yesterday’s proposals are correct. Dear colleagues, I also call your attention to the danger of a procedural and regulatory vote on the package. If this is necessary and the agreement is confirmed, please make a package, because the situation may be that even if a positive vote is made, the proposals will be voted on, and we will never end our Spikeriad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Viktorovich. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zarubinski Oleg. So the President's representative, and this is the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! We have a strange tendency when a particular way of voting, if its results do not suit the interests of a particular subject in the electoral process, can become a norm. I think it's just absurd, you can't do that anymore. I'd like to remind you of the chronology of yesterday's events. Yesterday the decision of the Counting Commission was not challenged. The Counting Commission said that there were no violations and obstacles to voting, so the emotional statements of the deputies were virtually disproved. And even after 222 deputies, without any reason, I mean, when it was put to the vote, they voted without getting the required number of votes, and they're making voting proposals again today. I think that the Supreme Council can't work in such a regime, and so I suggest you listen to your sympathy or your antipathies, your political preferences, or your reasonable suggestions of common sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u11	The word is given to Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Thank you. Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! I think it was very logical for the representatives of the "One Ukraine" faction to speak. The logic is in their speeches, and the arguments are very serious. So there is a proposal to support them and vote on what was voted on yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a vote was also discussed at the faction leaders’ meeting. In fact, no faction manager in general objected to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, I'm saying what I saw and heard. And since such a proposal is made, there is a proposal to be determined by voting. I think this will be the most objective. From the procedure? Let's talk about it. One minute. There is a need to discuss the matter. Please sign up. Please give me the names of the deputies. It takes five minutes. We give the first word to the national deputy Nasalika. The next one is Taran. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 86, Ivano-Frankiv region]] Please pass the word to Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u15	The word is given to National Deputy George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 203, Cherniewec region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Unquestionably, a difficult situation arose. But since there is a desire to vote on the packages that were put to the vote yesterday, which did not result in a successful vote, I think it would be perfectly normal to put the matter to the vote right now and make a decision. Voting is a democratic procedure to determine what the session room wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Taran Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, remember how these elections were conducted in general when so many failed to vote through a large assembly in the polling stations. And then they blamed each other, the others, the third ones who couldn't vote. This happened because the election process was not properly organized. Unfortunately, this practice came to us, to some extent, to the Supreme Council. We saw the state of the MPs in the last vote. And so it's perfectly logical to show in this example, to show democracy. You have to vote and put all the dots over the "and." Our faction and I personally support it, and I ask you to listen to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u19	The word is given to Stephen Stepanovich Bulby. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please give the word to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u21	Wine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u22	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the procedure is precisely what it takes for national MPs to be determined by voting. This is the most important procedure, and everyone else is from the wicked one. Yesterday we saw that more than two thirds of the national deputies did not vote. Obviously, this has some basis. Regrettably, the explanation of why this happened was not given by the leadership of the factions "The One Ukraine" and the SDPU(o). So they're trying to go through an opaque voting mechanism for the Head and his deputies. I think we should go back to the two packets that were, because they're interconnected and they haven't looked at each other separately. So in fact, yesterday there was no vote as such, because on one packet we finished the job. So it would be advisable now to go back to this, bring both packages in the same sequence as yesterday, and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u23	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Suprun Ludmila. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u24	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Your Honor! Dear colleagues! There was a vote yesterday. The Counting Commission made the right decision. Let us turn to the Rules as it determines the order and reasons for the voting. Article 3.7. 7: "If the Counting Commission detects a violation of the voting order, the results of this vote shall be announced. On the violation the Counting Commission will report to the Supreme Council, which shall decide on the investigation of the violation and consequences of the vote." Yesterday we voted in favour of the vote without a proper number of votes. Thus, the daily routine for yesterday was exhausted. The 22 minutes of today’s meeting have passed. According to the proposals made in the form of a decision on the order of nomination, it took 15 minutes. No new packets. It is under these conditions that we have the right to decide whether to take a break until Tuesday, as discussed at the meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u25	The speech is given to Anatoly Frost. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[constituency 83, Zaporezki region]] Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u27	Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Yesterday we testified to our position on this issue of voting, and the faction unanimously voted in favour of this proposal. But I would like to emphasize another. We will continue to work together to resolve this issue with those who really want the Supreme Council to work, not to work under someone. Today we claim that we will continue to agree on positions for the best solution. But now this vote can be inconclusive until one of the faction leaders publicly apologizes for the accusations that occurred yesterday on TV to the Company's address and our faction, that we allegedly broke the deal. [[Applause]] I ask you, please, to resolve this matter, apologize to the faction for public accusations, and we are ready to continue working together as promised. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-24-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! If you'll excuse me, please don't raise your hands, because we're in line with the Rules and the time spent talking is exhausted. I understand there are two suggestions, let's sum it up, some MPs insist on asking questions about the voting of these two packets, especially in terms of the first, because they thought they were in violation. Other national MPs strongly deny it. Therefore, forgive us, but we will act according to the Rules. I'm with Ludmila Suprun, and I agree, and I disagree. The thing is, we have a session that's not interrupted and we have an order of the day alone, it's not exhausted, we're moving slowly. So in order to get out of the situation, let's, as always, define by voting. I'm asking a question for a vote. Who's to repeat the vote on the first packet that was introduced yesterday, please determine by vote. "For" - 156. The factions, please. The proposal did not get the required number of votes. In this regard, I announce a recess, and the next meeting will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Thank you.
