ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies are requested to take their seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, let's get to work. Turn on the "Race" system, please. Please register. [[10:04:17]] Registered -379 There are 379 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, the birthdays of the Ukrainian national deputies John Vasilovich and Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Let's welcome our colleagues and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] Honorable National MPs. Dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules today, the Supreme Council of Decisions. You have a list of issues to decide from. Let us go to their consideration. The draft decree granting approval for the appointment of Svetoslav Piscoon as Attorney General of Ukraine is being submitted for consideration. The Committee on Law Enforcement proposes such a guiding regulation for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the granting of approval for the appointment of Sainteslav Piscona as Attorney General of Ukraine. The report of the Head of the Committee of Moses by Volodymyr Romanovich - in three minutes. To answer the question to the reporter, in five minutes. In order for the applicant to take office in five minutes. To answer a question to a candidate for office, within 7 minutes. For discussion, up to three minutes for the show, up to 25 minutes. That's 45 minutes. Is there no objection? Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legislative Security considered the submission of an agreement by the President of Ukraine for appointment by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Piscoslav Mihajlovich. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approval of the President of Ukraine for the appointment of Piscous Svetoslav Mihajlovich as Prosecutor General of Ukraine. In doing so, the committee came out of the following. The writer Svetoslav Mihajlovich has the moral and business qualities necessary to take up this post, he has sufficient legal experience, he has gone from the district attorney's office to the head of the investigative department, the deputy head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine. For 15 years, Piscoń Svetoslav Mihajlovich worked in various positions in the prosecutor's offices. He's a Lieutenant General of the Tax Police, a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine. Members of the committee were impressed by the position of candidate as regards the role and place of the Attorney General in the system of government authorities in Ukraine. This body should not be an accessory to executive power, but primarily to the constitutional functions of protecting human rights and freedoms and the interests of the State. How positive it should be noted that the candidate is willing to work towards constitutional requirements of the Public Prosecutor's Office legislation, which still retains the right of that body to exercise general supervision and to conduct an investigative investigation into criminal matters. The Constitution of Ukraine, as you know, does not provide for such a situation. The candidate advocates the position of independence of the prosecutor as an indispensable condition for his normal functioning. Members of the committee also supported this position. One additional guarantee of the independence of the prosecutor may have been the constitutional rule for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only for the appointment but also for the release of the Attorney General from office. The candidate supports such changes to the Constitution. And finally. The Supreme Council and the current state of law have a significant impact on the Attorney General. In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may express its mistrust to the Attorney -General of Ukraine, who is the result of his resignation. On behalf of the committee and personally, I would like to ask for the support of the candidate, Mr. Piscouslav Mikhajlovich, and to give his approval to the President of Ukraine for his appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please record. Let's take a look at the board. The Veretennikov People's Deputy, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u4	Dear reporter. MP Veretennikov, faction of entrepreneurs, industrialists and workers I have a question, perhaps, for you, or maybe even for the pretender himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u5	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u6	The question is. There are quite a number of cases in areas where prosecutors and other authorities take part. How does the applicant feel about the position of Attorney General of Ukraine? How will he feel?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. At the meeting of the faction "Our Ukraine" and at the meeting of the committee, the claimant made a clear statement. In the state of today’s legislation, the prosecutor cannot be completely independent. But as he used the expression, he will do everything he can to ensure that there are no warrants with the involvement of the Attorney General and the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u8	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u9	Thank you. I ask the floor for the question of handing over to Ukraine's national deputy, Vladimir Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u10	People's deputy to Nechiporak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Not Volodimir Pavlovich, 194 constituency, Social Democratic Party, faction. [[united]] Dear Vladimir Romanovich, I'd like to ask you a question as head of the committee to give you that answer. How many applicants for the Attorney General are cooperating with your committee, and how do you feel about continuing to work with the Attorney General? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u12	Thank you. In his previous call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhajlovich was active in working with the Committee on Legal Protection. He is the author, or one of the authors of many bills, including the State Tax Law in Ukraine. The candidate expressed his desire to continue working with the committee on the principles of law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u13	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u14	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region First of all, I want to confirm once again what I said to the faction of us when our faction met with the distinguished Svetoslav Mikhajlovich to say that I am very pleased that the holy Kyiv land puts such worthy people in office as the candidate of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Svoslav Mikhailovich worked from 1984 to 1997 in the Kyiv region. And my question is, the experience that he had after working in the prosecutor's office in the Kyiv region, is it sufficient to hold the highest position in the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, what arguments do you have in favour of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. As I have already said from the practical experience of legal work for 15 years, Svetoslav Mikhajlovich has worked in the prosecutor's offices in various offices and, in conclusion, has been the head of the district prosecutor's department of law enforcement in internal affairs. In the following, he created and led the investigating branch and became the deputy head of the State Tax Administration. As a lawyer, I'm going to say that this experience is enough for Svetoslav Mikhailovich to run the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u16	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u17	Alexander Baranowski. The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Romanovich, please tell us whether the committee has considered how independent the prosecutor will be from various political forces or, say, groups, clans and so forth. Is there going to be any orders, let's say. As the "Village News" was stifled and this time the question is not clarified. And following. How did the committee vote whether it was unanimous or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u18	Thank you. As far as the prosecutor's independence is concerned. I expressed my view of the problem as a candidate. As far as voting is concerned, there are 16 members of the committee. There were 14, there were 11 candidates, there were 3 members of the committee, there were none against.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u19	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Your time is up. Mr. Svetoslav Piscoon is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! The current Constitution of Ukraine, along with the allocation of state authority to the legislative and executive branch, gives the court its own place to oversee the exact and equal implementation of the laws of Ukraine, which has been imposed on the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Prosecutor’s Office Act has brought her activities closer to democratic principles of law, to the universal strengthening of the rule of law, to the protection of human rights and freedoms and of citizens. The Public Prosecutor's Office has more important functions, such as upholding the State's charge in court, representing the interests of a citizen or a state, overseeing the enforcement of laws by bodies carrying out operational investigations, investigating judicial investigations, overseeing the enforcement of laws in the use of judicial decisions. The Public Prosecutor’s Office should contribute not only to the enforcement of laws but also to judicial decisions. As a state institution of the highest oversight of the Constitution, the rule of law also carries out coordinating functions in the system of law enforcement agencies. But unfortunately, breaking laws in all spheres of activity and at all levels has become commonplace in our society today. The most important guarantee of law enforcement is the prosecutorial supervision of strict and accurate compliance with the law, which is the sole and primary function of the prosecutor’s offices. In the process of rebuilding the democratic rule of law, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, like all other state institutions, is subject to reform. These include overestimating existing outdated approaches to the activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office under new social conditions. Prosecutorial supervision in the rule of law must become an important link in the rule of law system, the strengthening of the rule of law and the real realization of constitutional guarantees and the rights of citizens. Today, more than 137 articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code are being investigated by prosecutors ’ investigators and criminal investigators, as well as crimes committed by official offices of 1.3 categories. Today we need to start reforming the Office of the Attorney General's Office's investigation into the Constitution of Ukraine. We have here that the authorities of the prosecutor’s office are bound to investigate individual criminal matters that may be investigated by the authorities of the Ukrainian Security Service, the internal affairs authorities. I believe that only the prosecutor’s principled supervision of the criminal case ensures the legality of human rights investigations. I believe that the most important thing in the activities of the Attorney-General's Office and its subordinate departments at the local level is the exercise of qualified supervision of law enforcement, the verification of the legality of decisions taken by the executive authorities both at the centre and at the sites, the verification of the legality of judicial decisions and the timely response to violations of laws. For a preliminary investigation, the prosecutor’s office should be raised to a new quality with regard to law enforcement officials. The main focus of the prosecution’s work today is to eliminate corruption in the work of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, which exists. The Public Prosecutor's Office should become a highly professional, state-owned, professional, accessible body to protect citizens from celibacy, especially officials. And there's a lot of reason and authority for that in the DA's office. Lawfulness in our country is a powerful factor in organizing, disciplining, requiring the strict observance of State labour discipline, the clear fulfilment of every one of its responsibilities, and at the same time contributing to the increasing activity of citizens, it keeps citizens from becoming lawless and lawless. The State’s Public Prosecutor’s Office in the mechanism performs a special, unique function, not according to its own genetics, nor by the nature of its authority, is it part of any branch of authority. The interaction of intelligence and prosecutorial supervision remains a reliable means of ensuring the rule of law in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the applicant. Please record. Please point it on the board. National MP Matvienko, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u22	Matvienko, constituency 66, faction "European Choice." Please pass the word to Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u23	The national deputy of Potapov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u24	Dear Stanislav Mihajlovich, there have been many different assumptions regarding your activities in the process of preparing for today's consideration. You can say, today, once again, that the information that is being disseminated today in both the Supreme Council and outside the Supreme Council is very much political.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u25	First of all, I don't really know what information is being disseminated. But I don't think the Attorney General's office should to some extent be a political office. It is a duty to uphold the rule of law in the State and politics that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u26	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u27	Alexander Baranowski, Ukrainian Socialist Party I'd like a word with the deputy to Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u28	National deputy Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u29	The Honourable Prosecutor General is known to be both the Tax Administration and the Attorney General's Office in our country are very actively used to put, as it were, within the framework of freedom of speech. Examples of lots and here, they say, I could call it, call it, and call it. But let's say the Attorney General didn't want you to, for example, notice the obvious and obvious things when, let's say, past presidential elections produced fake newspapers. [[Just like the security service.]] And to all these things, the Attorney General just didn't want to react. [[That's clear. They were released by President Kuchma's team.]] Your predecessor simply ran away when he was approached with these questions. How will you react to such things if, for example, such false lies come out of today’s governing team?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. I'm absolutely sure that the prosecutor and the prosecutor's office should use one, the Press Press Press Act, the Printing Act. If these laws are being violated, the prosecutor must respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u31	Zarubinsky People's Deputy, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u32	Rubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Holy Michaelovich, this is what modernizing crime is all about right now. New types of crime are emerging: computer, illegal migration, etc. As you consider, or as you can see, the solution to the problem of retraining and improving the qualifications of prosecutors and investigators. Is it necessary to do so? And if necessary, how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u33	Thank you. First of all, it must be borne in mind that before being appointed as a district attorney, district attorney or other prosecutor, the employee must be employed for at least five years in the post and necessarily in the prosecutor's office. So that he would have the experience of such a work. In view of today’s modernized crime, law enforcement authorities should be modernized much faster. And I see here a solution to the problem -- these are institutions to improve the skills of law enforcement officials, where they have to be raised in accordance with the requirements that these bodies are facing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u34	People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u35	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u36	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Piscoon, you may know that the most experienced professional experts in the United States have confirmed the reality of the films made by Major Melnichenko in President Kuchma's office. That is, there is every reason to break the case against those who appear on these tapes and who are accused of terrible crimes. Question one. You're willing, when you're chosen by the Attorney General, to file criminal cases against the facts set out in these tapes. And the second question is traditional. In recent years, the State Tax Administration, where you've worked and worked now, the Attorney General's Office has been working as a tool of the regime to eliminate the opposition: economic structures, political structures, to fabricate cases against the leaders of the opposition. Will you continue and how effective will this case be after Kuchma has appointed you as Attorney General? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u38	Thank you. You asked me if I was ready for this. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I am ready to serve the people of Ukraine and ready to serve the law that is passed in this Supreme Council. And I give that word that I'm ready for it. And second, about the opposition. The prosecution does not engage in political persecution. There is a crime - the D.A. has to react and investigate a criminal offence. And whoever did this doesn't matter to the prosecutor or the investigator. The main thing is whether or not there's a component of the crime. It's not the kind of politics we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u39	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u40	Dear Mr. General Svetoslav Mikhailovich! You were on our faction yesterday, and we had the opportunity to talk to you in detail. Today, the faction has practically been determined as to free voting. I have two short questions for you. First of all, you were both a prosecutor, and you worked in the IRS. Please tell me if you're accounting for the people you've set up to play, and if you can call the biggest fish you've ever caught, that's the first question. And the second question. If you're voted for today, and I'm sure you'll be chosen today, how are you going to spend tonight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u41	Well, first of all, I don't do people's math, because I don't gamble. Vitali Fedorovich, head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, will help me, and will put me on trial. And the prosecutor, he's investigating a criminal case, he's making accusations, he's referring a case to a court where it's actually being tried. How many of these were there? Very much. But as much as anyone, well, I don't remember. On the second question, what am I going to do if I'm elected by Parliament as Attorney General? I don't know, maybe I'll go to church and put a candle, and then you'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u42	Thank you. Sveslav Mikhailovich, your time is up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have up to 25 minutes to discuss. Please sign up for the performance: From the factions first, and then the national MPs will act. Please point it on the board. From the faction, National Deputy Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich, please, from the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if they are willing, please register. I mean, to be willing, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we are considering an extremely important issue today. Because in Ukraine today, the office of Attorney General is a special position. And you've seen many times: and those who do business, do business, and those who do politics, and those who do business, and those who do business, and those who do business, institutions, organizations, public authorities, have repeatedly been convinced that today the Attorney General's Office is used as a tool for dissuasion in Ukraine. And this places a great deal of responsibility on us as to who will be the head of this executive body. Unfortunately, we don't have democracy in Ukraine and unfortunately we can't be proposing today from, say, the opposition forces to the Attorney General's office, which would be perfectly normal in a democratic state. And such men, prepared, fully prepared for such work, are. And the same, let's say, Victor Shishkin, and Paul Tchacouk and many other specialists who have the right school, training, experience, and have an absolutely independent position from executive power. Unfortunately, it's not real today. And it's obvious from the previous information that processing the deputies will lead to a vote for the representative of the Tax Service. If that happens, we wish General Piscoon success, I think. But I want my position on behalf of the faction to say this. This is about what we've done with the Tax Service, not us, but the President and the executive power in general, we've made the Tax Service a penal authority. We now associate the penal authority with the Attorney General’s Office. And even those who vote today will soon feel what it is when they listen to the counsel of the right parties. It's not specifically about Piscot as a person, it's about the system that we're creating in the state. If we want to move towards democracy, we shouldn't take this step, if we just want to serve and live one day, then you will vote accordingly. The Socialist Party faction in connection with the formation of a single system of penal organs in the state cannot agree with the proposal for the appointment of Pisconus as Attorney General. I don't want a claim on him personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u44	National Deputy Bandurka, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u45	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! It's been three months since Ukraine without the Attorney General. And there's a whole series of procedures envisaged by Ukrainian legislation that can only be implemented by the Attorney-General. As in criminal offences, disturbances in trouble, problems in the fight against organized crime, in international relations, in other law enforcement activities. We're going to take a break in a week and a month and a half if we don't approve the Attorney General and agree to his appointment today, then we're going to continue the vacuum that's in law enforcement, because the absence of the Attorney General has already become noticeable in the fight against crime, first of all. Of course, the prosecution needs fresh impulses primarily in investigating resonant criminal cases about what the petitioner was speaking about, and by communicating with him in detail at the Committee on Legal Protection and the factions, I think the deputies had the opportunity to make sure that he was willing to carry out the duties of the Attorney General in his professional status and personal qualities. The attention of the Attorney-General must be focused primarily on ensuring the rule of law in all areas of life, especially in the higher echelons of power. This, too, Your Honor, is what you used to remind Stanislav Mikhailovich about. The faction of the People's Democratic Party supports Piscoon Stanislav Mihajlovich's candidacy for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine and requests your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u46	National Deputy Head of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! In our faction with the candidate there is the principle of the variance that I heard in this room from the first mouth of his speech. He said that he would be a proponent of the Stalinic principle of the rule of law. Unfortunately, Hitlerism and Stalinism have entered into the past, and the candidate offers us to continue living by the rule of law. We can't agree with this, because as the author of the Constitution, article 8 of the first principle of the rule of law, we live and want to live with Europe -- it's enshrined in the statute of the Council of Europe, and the principle of the rule of law is denied by a long-established Europe. That's the first one. The other one. That's why we don't see professionalism in this candidate. Third. The point is, it's the President who's bringing this candidate. The U.S. Attorney's Institute in Ukraine, and that proved perfectly fine, turned into President Kuchma's lawyer. We cannot agree that the person who came from the most corrupt, one of the most corrupt institutions, the Tax Administration, should become the prosecutor of Ukraine. It's a combination of "treasure" and "azareland," it's "azareland" squared, it's "cushism" in cube. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine: The President wants one, a rescue. Of course, he will offer the man who will save him. This is clearly his goal in political life. And, imagine, you, the distinguished representatives of the Ukrainian people, today you have the opportunity as representatives of the entire nation to solve the question of turning Kuchma into a third term. [[So it is written about you in the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy]] This is your test. You're choosing his lawyer, and that's why you're making a decision about the political life of Kuchma for the third term. That is what is happening today. So, I'm sorry, do you really think that we, the opposition faction that led the election campaign on the principles of European standards of life, on the principles of life for opposition, physical life, not just legal, real life, that so far we haven't been transplanted and cut off from our heads, are we going to vote for the candidature that Kuchma is looking for rescue?Oh, my God! Of course not! But this is a test for you. All those who vote for Piscoon today are voting for the third presidential term of Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u48	The Black People's Deputy of the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u49	Honorable National MPs. I went out to this rostrum in a state of hard reflection. I understand, and I share a lot of the paphos of the deputy head. But I would like to remind him that Cicero said that free people become slaves to the law. So this is the tradition of the rule of law, it's still coming from Cicero, not Stalin or Hitler. This question is questionable. Now it's about who Kuchma is offering. Kuchma will offer no one but her lawyer. He will always offer his man and that is natural. But I ask you, who but Kuchma will offer us the Attorney General's candidacy? Under the Constitution, the President proposes a candidature. I'm not Piscoon's lawyer, and I probably won't vote. I'm thinking that we can't look at these things so clearly and observantly. Next I ask you. If there is no Sandman, who? We are obliged to think! Are you not obliged to think about who will be? All right, who's it gonna be? - I'm asking you. Wouldn't that be a worse option?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u50	I beg your pardon, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u51	Now essentially. I'd like to go to the Attorney General's office. The U.S. Attorney's Office doesn't exist in Ukraine! District attorneys are under the heel of the governors. The Attorney General's office serves Bank Street. And the prosecution needs radical reform now. If that doesn't happen, the D.A. won't be able to do its job, and now we have to look at a candidate for the D.A.'s office as a person, or she can't do the reform of the D.A.'s office, and give her back her real role, her real job, so that the D.A. can do it. At this point in view, I think, and from this point of view, we have to look at the candidates for this position. Now there's one fear that I share, too. Will the Sandman, as the Attorney General of Ukraine, as you said, be the man to execute a case against the opposition? That's what keeps me from voting. Will he stand on the watch of the law? Will all of them be equal before the law? Is anyone going to be more equal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u52	Thank you. Your time is up. A Ukrainian national deputy, Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, will speak from the agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum today, there were completely opposite, definitively opposite things. I don't know what big politicians, big lawyers think when they divide both the Ukrainian Parliament and the people of Ukraine into those who are with the President, who are not with the President: there are enemies, and here are friends of the people. If we do so, fellow believers, we will not soon build a strong and strong state. We need to learn to respect both Parliament and power and the people we assign to positions in the state. It is impossible to do so that the highest position in the state becomes in Parliament in some way around which we have only images of speaking. The man was chosen by the people. He's got a two-year term as president. Someone likes it, someone doesn't like it. But throughout the civilized world, people honor those chosen by the people. Otherwise, we will not be honored. Ukraine’s farmers are determined that we will support the prosecutor who is represented and reported from this rostrum today. Why? There are a lot of problems in the village today. The adopted new Earth Code, followed by agrarian reform, has many violations on the ground, violations of land privatization, privatization of property. There are many violations with the distribution of property in food, processing, and other industries. And we want the D.A. to help put order there to celebrate law and law. We also want a new prosecutorial candidate, if he becomes a prosecutor, to make sure not only that the Attorney General's Office is strong, but that the district attorney's offices are strengthened. You know, in areas where there's a small handful of people, and we have to have the national MPs that we've created another judicial system. Several courts are being created in the areas and the only prosecutor remains. How can he separate himself by speaking in different courts? And we need to work with you here. That's why I'm addressing all the national MPs. We don't have to think that this person, if he worked in the Tax Administration, should be operating only from a political point of view. The man said that he would work to celebrate the law, and so the law. That's why we're going to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Cherniak, who spoke from the faction of "Our Ukraine", but the faction claims that the faction should be the leader of the faction Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. Please, Victor Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you not to be dramatic, everything's going according to plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u55	Your Honor, your colleagues! I would like to start by saying that we have to admit that the prosecution system in Ukraine has bankrupted and the country cannot answer how to protect human rights, honour and dignity. The other one. It's about this situation that we have in Parliament today. For a parliament that doesn't have a structure, any wind is not parallel, because we don't know the port of correspondence. And in connection with the issue of consenting to the appointment of the Attorney General to the Ukrainian Parliament again, the banal question is, "Who are we friends against?" And that's where the answer comes from. Is that how you support the candidature or not? This is the stalemate, the respectable friends in which we're going to be in any serious decision, including personnel. And we will be tormenting each other in various ways, calling on God, conscience, and so on and so forth. I would also like to make a frank statement on today’s issue. This is a difficult question for each of the national MPs. I believe that with the appointment of the Sandman, the sun in Ukraine will not become brighter. And it's going to go up in the east. I want it to go east. Next. There is one prosecutor in Ukraine and there is one judge. Here's what I'd like to say. If we really want to see an effective system of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office, without changing the Constitution, it's impossible to achieve this without looking at any candidate that we don't hear today, there will be no perfect candidate for it. We're in the middle of a rule problem with you. Until the Constitution is amended accordingly, we will be in this impasse. That's common. Now essentially. What does not make our faction more difficult and complicated our political dialogue on this issue? It is certainly that no prior consultations have been held before a suitable candidate has been submitted to Parliament. This has not been agreed by our positions previously, and that is the complexity of today’s dialogue and today’s decision. Second, we twice collected a faction, twice heard the question. The thought has gone away, you might say, for two polar thoughts: one is "punished" and the other is "merciful". We have considered the situation this morning, and in order for us to maintain political understanding, the political label in relation to the various forces that are in the faction, we have given each national MP the opportunity to determine on his own. So I ask you, dear friends, to turn to your conscience, talk to it, and make this difficult decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u56	The People's People's Party is the national deputy of Sergio Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u57	Your Honor, your colleagues! Whatever we say and whatever we say, we need to make a decision to change jobs for a better prosecutor's office. We talk a lot, but we don't make these decisions. There is a very old saying in China that every road, even 100,000 miles [100,000 miles], begins at the first step. We argue whether to take this step or not. In front of us is a clear person, a clear professional with a normal form program. Moreover, he who understands the situation realizes that he is doomed to do so in the light of political and other circumstances. We can do much to help him. So our group stopped at the decision to support this candidature, to make decisions, and to move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u58	Thank you. From the faction of the SDPU(O) the word is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! Our faction met with Viacheslav Mikhailovich Piscoon and decided to support this candidacy. The first thing we did was deal with a professional. And secondly, we saw that this is a human principle. As far as projections are concerned, we cannot say today to Viacheslav Mikhailovich any claims, since we have not seen him as a prosecutor or Attorney General of Ukraine. When it comes to tax matters and charging the Tax Administration, we have to look into the mirror of what laws the Supreme Council has adopted, and how they work today I have on tax laws on the economy and society. So we need to change society, change legislation, adopt at least a tax code so that there are no such claims to the Tax Administration. What concerns the substance of the problem is today the Constitution we respect, is the rule of law for society, and for the prosecutor there is law. And if the prosecutor in this rostrum claims that he will serve the law and only the law, he is still a candidate for the Attorney General, the law and only the law, then this person is entitled to that position because this position is a candidate for the Attorney General. We will support and encourage the support of others. Because society must live by law, and the Attorney General's Office should work, and according to the Constitution, the President is submitting a candidature. There's no other way, we have to respect the Constitution and the law as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since Cherniak spoke of the name of the national deputy, Sergey the Chief, he has a word for a reprimand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Black! You know how they used to say in the classics, I'll tell you as an artist." As a great economist, I will tell you that Cicero lived when there was no Council of Europe when the statute of the Council of Europe was not adopted, where the rule of law was written down and did not live until the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution. That's the other thing. You say, perhaps or perhaps not, free swimming, free voting. Think of what you promised the voters. You went to the times of Cicero, Stalin, Hitler, in the times of Kuchma, or did you say that we go to Europe, we go to new times. You promised someone else. So free navigation of yours is the definition of all the opposition forces. Did you tell the truth, or did you lie to people?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u62	From the faction of "Trug Ukraine" and industrialists, the entrepreneurs are spoken by Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u63	Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! As we listen to the speeches, we are well aware that many of us are already being burdened by political reasons that will or will not force us to vote for this candidacy. I would like to emphasize that today this position is not political, and we must all do everything we can to ensure that it is not a political office. We've held faction meetings, we've determined that this is a professional person, and the whole faction will unanimously support this candidacy as Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u64	The word is Richter's, "The regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u65	Raisa Bogatyrova, 41 constituency, group "Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Of course, it is not possible to study quality, skills, and professionally for a reasonable and perfect time. But we still have to get out of the logic of what's going on right now, of the logic of the constitutional processes in which we're taking part. So the President of the State has a candidate. Everyone who's involved in this has been able to meet and talk, and probably everyone has made decisions, or they haven't taken advice for themselves and their factions. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" was also determined with this question. We held two meetings on this subject, and I want everyone. To support our decision to support the President's candidacy for the post of Attorney General and the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" will also vote unanimously in favour of this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Time's up. Let's go to the vote. Please. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! Puts the vote to the vote. All according to the Rules, we made a deal with you. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of Svetoslav Piscona as Attorney General of Ukraine is put to the vote. This is document number 1272. People's deputies please make a decision. Please make up your mind. Please vote. [[11:01:10]] For 347 Decision taken. 347 people's deputies in favor. I'd like you to explain the factions. Dear colleagues, we have every reason to welcome Saint Piscoon and to wish him success and self - service in the cause, in the protection of human rights and freedoms, in the service of the law. Welcome, Holy Michael! Dear colleagues, your consideration and decision-making is based on the Ukraine Government Day Decision in September 2002. Reporters: Ukrainian National Deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, as well as head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Ivan Mikhailovich Rizak. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we can ask the government's Day in September no more than two questions. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue your work. You'll be able to say hello. National Deputy Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, among the problems that seriously concern society today are those that, in fact, today pose a threat to Ukraine’s national security and are the result of so - called reforms in Ukraine. They are primarily concerned with social, very acute issues that have a bearing on job security, the proper level of wage, the level of retirement, the granting of benefits to those categories that deserve State support -- primarily single mothers who raise children, the sick, the disabled, the pensioners, the black people, the Afghans, the children, the students, all those categories that really need State protection and support today. It's not the first time that we communists have raised a question that relates to the conduct of state policy to support these very categories of citizens and to ensure equal opportunities for all members of society. As a result, we have repeatedly suggested to the government that programs should be designed in a targeted way that would allow precisely and purposefully address the issues that affect these painful problems. So a faction of communists has offered you a consideration, honourable colleagues, a topic that deserves attention on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the poverty eradication strategy in Ukraine. This is a complex and very serious problem that we Communists have brought to her attention. But today reality and reporting, as well as the President, says frankly that we have forty million Ukrainian citizens living outside the poverty line, that we have seven million Ukrainian citizens going outside Ukraine in search of a piece of bread to make some money and bring in a family that we have a tuberculosis epidemic, an epidemic spreads to AIDS and many other problems. [[We have official statistics in Ukraine.]] You and I can see the pitiful state of the health system. Today, another step is taken when it is impossible for a child to receive an education. A higher education especially from a simple family that lacks much wealth and has little income. All of this is a threat to Ukraine’s national security. Especially since the UN has recognized Ukraine as a dying nation, it is truly a tragedy for us to be with you. And based on what we're looking at every draft law that the government has ever passed. We have come out of the objective realities we face, and we have come out of what needs to be decided specifically for our people, we, a faction of Communists, and have suggested in September, during the Government’s Day, that we consider the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the strategy of overcoming poverty in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question, I think, of course, is relevant, the question has long matured and matured. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats and support the proposal of the national MP Simonek. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues! We continue our work. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Dear colleagues, if you would like to vote, please take your seats. National Deputy Bondarchuk, I ask you to take your place. National MP Timoshenko, please take your place. Vote, the question is very important! National deputy Jeremiah, please take your place. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the government's September 2002 resolution with such an order of the day. On the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the strategy of overcoming poverty in Ukraine. I want to remind you that this is a question, and its importance and urgency is also noted in the President's letter, and we talk about it a lot. If you'll excuse me, please put it to the vote. Please turn the system on. Please vote. [[11:08:23]] For 285 Thank you. The decision is taken, for -285. National Deputy Rizak Ivan Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! People’s deputies Victor Yushchenk, Hennadi Udovenko, Les Tanjuk were given a decree by the Supreme Council to hold a Government Day with such a agenda: on the implementation of a national policy on the implementation of Ukraine’s law on the natural reserve fund of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine on the protection of cultural heritage and compliance by officials with the requirements of current legislation regarding the national reserve of Horticians and other historical and cultural commandments and objects of the natural reserve fund. Our committee has considered this issue, and today we can say that, indeed, there are many examples of violations of current legislation. And these examples are reflected in both management and subordination, as well as, to say the least, the weak protection of many precious monuments. Today, we need to talk about the fact that the Ukrainian national MPs used the word "stolen" at a committee meeting. And at today's meeting with the Attorney General of Ukraine, I also asked about the more serious activities of the environmental authorities, the environmental prosecutor's office, which also today requires serious changes in its structure. Nevertheless, there are still many issues related to funding. And that's why I introduced a bill that gave the relevant mandates to both the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Law Enforcement. Today and yesterday at a committee meeting, the issue was confirmed, formed, and introduced to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the execution of his commission by two working groups headed by the Committee on Environmental Policy and with the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovich Tanyuk. These groups include experts, representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, representatives of the executive branch, and I think we will do our best to prepare this issue seriously on Government Day in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the question is clear. I would like to remind you that in the previous session, we agreed that we would listen to this question in September. And since we have the opportunity to discuss 2 issues on Government Day in September, I would also ask you to support draft decree 1244-1 on Government Day in September 2002 with the agenda: "On the implementation of State policy on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Commanding Fund for Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage" and "On the enforcement by officials of the requirements of the current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural reserves and objects of the Natural and Command Fund." I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, to support this one. By Procedure or by Motivation? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u71	I would ask only to join the Seminyuk commission because illegal privatization has begun, and the Privatization Commission should be attached to this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, is there no objection to the proposal made by the national deputy of Tanjuk? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and vote in favour of the adoption of the entire draft Supreme Council decree number 1244-1. Please vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote, given the importance of this matter. [[11:13:06]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. In order to take a decision, the draft decree is: "To form a temporary commission of inquiry into the mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January, March and June 2002". Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Sas Please, if there is a need to inform the national MPs. There is a need for us to vote. Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you that we should vote this way. Since the draft decree is based on the 1124th draft decree, on the inadmissibility of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January-March and June 2002. After that, a draft decision was made by the head of the committee of the national deputy, Mathviennek, to reject the decision that the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry was not acceptable. Then, according to the Rules, we must first vote on the draft decree that was passed by the people’s deputy, Matvienko. One minute. All right, respectable colleagues, according to procedure. We need to vote on the draft decree of the people's deputy Matvienko. Dear colleagues! We'll take care of it. Please sit down. I want to remind you again, and now I'm going to give you my word from the committee if that's what you need. At first it was said that there was no need. Yesterday we were looking at this problem, this situation, which the Legal Authority believes is that if there is a decision to create a commission. This is the subject of another Inadmissibility Order, followed by a draft Decision rejecting the Inadmissibility Order. That is how the draft decision rejecting the Inadmissibility Order should first be voted on. Once again, dear colleagues, I'm telling you once again what kind of offer is being made. And now the committee is being urged by national MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u73	Vladimir Bondarenko, State Building and Self-Government Committee. Dear friends! At the time of the Committee on State Building and Self-Government, the draft Decree signed by national deputies Sasa and Pavlovski proposed to consider the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry into the mass violations of electoral law during the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local government bodies in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January-March and June 2002. The committee considered the matter in its own time and supported the people’s deputies and recommended that the Supreme Council consider the draft decree. Then came a draft decree signed by three national deputies: Colonyari, Komara, and Korsakova that this decree was unacceptable. That is, it was suggested that it should not be considered in connection with unacceptableness. The committee considered the draft decree proposed by the People’s Deputies Colonyari, Komar and Korsakov and found it unfounded. So we've been going through this. Today, a draft decree proposed by Sass is being put into the order of the day. There is a motion for a decision to declare it unfounded. And we need to take a processive action today. I think that the holding session should go according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not touch the decree on. which our committee has proposed by a third decree. So let's define the procedure for dealing with this issue so that we don't confuse it to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u74	National MP Matvienko, please. National MP Matvienko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u75	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, indeed, I am addressing you, has made a decision to the Supreme Council on the inadmissibility of the Sass' draft decree. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Government reviewed the draft decree on inadmissibility and rejected it as unfounded, and I ask all national deputies to consider that this decree is unfounded. Therefore, it can be put to the vote and then put to the vote the issue of Sass’s ruling. But besides, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you, as we vote for the commission and our faction insists that we vote today and the Gongada commission. And so let's make sure that when we vote on these two committees, we vote on the third so that we don't take the job and create a situation of social tension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u76	Thank you. National Deputy Frost, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u77	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not saying it's advice, it's just a comment on the situation. A decree has been made, and a second subject of the legislative initiative feels that it is unacceptable. When the matter is referred to the sessional room, only a procedural decision is made to assign a legal or appropriate committee to determine whether it violates the Constitution or whether it can be considered. The committee has already defined this. I mean, the decision can be considered. Thus, the two statutes of the Colosseum disappear. There is one decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry. And I would like us to put this very decision to the vote, as well as the decision that Anatoly Matvienko is talking about, taking into account also the position of the President, who, on the second day after the election, said that after the elections in the Donetsk region, it was necessary to make a test to clarify how legitimate they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u78	National MP Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u79	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, probably the Legal Department, making a statement. Omelchenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, probably the Legal Department, making a conclusion as to what you're talking about, is still a mistake. I'll read you an article in the Rules that says that. Article 3.5.5. If the issue of inadmissibility is supported by the Main Committee, i.e. if the issue of inadmissibility is supported by the Main Committee, and you read the draft decree that the Main Committee did not support the issue of inadmissibility. If they supported the issue of inadmissibility, then the committee’s ruling would be the first to vote. And since they also did not support it, there are the preceding articles of the Rules, which say that in any vote first, the issue of inadmissibility is necessarily the first. This is one moment. The second point is this. Earlier, when the rights of the opposition were protected, the question of unacceptableness was accepted by 150 votes. Then it made sense, for there were 150 votes in order not to adopt the law or the decree. Having changed these acts, the Ukrainian House suggested that the issue of inadmissibility was also accepted by 226 votes. So now it's practically a question of unacceptableness as such that has disappeared logically. So acceptability or inadmissibility, you need 226 votes. So let's not break the spears, let's ask the question of unacceptableness. There are no 226 votes -- we ask the question of acceptability, and everything will be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Zvaric and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. What was said here on the basis of inadmissibility is, in my view, only partially in line with the current Rules. Deputy Moroz correctly noted that the inadmissibility and the decision on inadmissibility would not result in an appropriate draft of the decree or the law. This decision, in general, is that we are sending this project to a profiling committee that, in turn, has to rule out whether or not the project corresponds to the Constitution. In this, Deputy Frost was absolutely right. But in order for the committee to consider a project on inadmissibility, there must be a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to do so. Of course, we did not make that decision. Therefore, according to the Rules, the Preparatory Committee had no right to consider a draft of inadmissibility until the Supreme Council was determined on this point. Therefore, a project on unacceptableness should be put to the vote first. In case he doesn't pass, ask questions about the decision. And in the event that the project on inadmissibility is under way, then the task of assigning a profile committee to review the project, either "for" or "against" to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a case here to some extent, but that's not the problem we need to break the files around. Then, according to your proposal, I put to the vote the 1124th draft "On the Unacceptability of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to Investigate the Mass Violations of Electoral Law during the Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Organs of Local Self-Government in the Donetsk Region, the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January, March and June 2002." In order for this decree to take effect, it takes 226 votes. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[11:26:14]] For-143 For -143, no decision is made. The factions, if necessary, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 1124 on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local self-government bodies in the Donetsk Region, in the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January, March and June 2002. I'm betting on this project to vote in general. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[11:27:11]] For 208 For - 208, the decision is made. Decision taken, my dear fellows! It takes 150 votes to make that decision. The factions, please. The draft Decree establishing a special temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the rule of law in the re-election of Ukrainian national deputies on 14 July 2002 is being put to the vote. Reporter: People's Deputy Orobec. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Do you need to speak today? Will we vote? I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that the decision to form a temporary special commission should be made by most national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. I am voting on the draft Decree 1257 on the establishment of the Special Temporary Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the rule of law in the re-election of Ukraine's national deputies on 14 July 2020 as a whole. Please make up your mind. [[11:28:48]] For 227 The decision is made for - 227 national deputies. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, in order to make a decision, the draft decree is to set up a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the crisis that led to the financial situation of the Agribusiness Share Bank "Ukraine" and to verify the legality of its liquidation. For this reason, we have two draft decrees in order of their order. Is there a need to speak? People's Deputy King. There's no need to speak. And National Deputy Simonenko, there's no need to speak. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision 1222 establishing a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the crisis of the stockholder commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine" and to verify the legality of its liquidation. Please proceed with the Martinyuk procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u83	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I thank you for saying that there are, in fact, two draft regulations. But I would ask, given that I doubt that these two draft decrees are available to each of the national deputies, I would like to ask the Chief to inform what is the point and the difference between these two projects. And they come together, I remind you, to one. The difference between the two draft decrees for the creation of this commission is only one. This is about the commission's head. One project proposes the head of the Commission, the King, the second project of the Communist faction, proposes the head of the commission to the national deputy, Novak. I'm explaining and arguing why we're making this proposal. We have absolutely nothing personal to the head of the commission that headed this commission in the Supreme Council of the previous call. But given that there have been some publications in the press that say that some representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" have had a direct relationship with the bank "Ukraine" so that there is no suspicion, it would be inappropriate for a representative of this faction to lead the commission on this bank so that there are no charges against us. And I think if we change the head of the commission to another candidate, not a representative of this faction, it would be more logical. That's what these two draft regulations are all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I don’t think there’s any more need to explain. With the procedure of the People's Deputy King, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the need to create this commission. And the question was not who was in charge and what were the charges against the chairman of the commission. We have investigated this objectively, and the commission has produced some results. And for today, you need to put a dot and report on the results of the investigation of what has been going on. And today there's an indication that someone there is being accused of being involved in this is entirely unfounded, because the board's composition includes all the political powers of the Supreme Council. And the decision of the commission is taken only by consensus. I mean, there's no reason to press charges here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u86	Your Honor, has everyone understood the motivation for the first draft of the ruling and for the second draft of the ruling? Is there no need to discuss? I'm voting on draft regulation 1222, as a whole, which was introduced by national deputy Victor the King: "On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the financial crisis of the Agrobusiness Share Bank "Ukraine" and to verify the legality of its liquidation. I'd like you to identify yourself as an honorary national MP. [[11:33:54]] For-167 For - 167, the decision is made. The factions, please. Thank you. Honorable national MPs are being put in place to approve the draft decree on border numbers. The procedure, please. National MP Matvienko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u87	Matvienko Ukrainian Republican Party "Sobor", Yulia Block Timoshenko Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'm addressing all of you. We've set up three commission investigators today. We understand how serious the problem of Gongadze is, is the draft of Decree 1178. I understand that it's not in the agenda, but I'm going to "Our Ukraine," who's waiting for George, we have to understand that we can't lose an entire summer without investigating this case. So we promise Fatty to be a deputy and he will lead this commission we will vote in his favour. But let's unlock it and get to work. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, there is a proposal to vote on the question of inclusion in the agenda, it will take two minutes and immediately on the establishment of a commission of 1178. And in this way, take away this problem, which really keeps a lot of tension in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! In fact, we have just received a draft ruling that is proposed for the schedule of meetings. I'm if you don't mind, I'd suggest you do it this way right now. Involve Zinchenk’s Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexiyyovich, along with the authors, to work on it as part of the representation because the proportional principle, as required by the Rules, is not present, since two representatives from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, two leaders from the Socialist Party, and then all others. And in order to vote on this proposal by the people's deputy, Matvienka, after the break. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed and adopted by a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the borderline number of devices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me inform you, dear fellows of the people, why such a need has arisen. Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that we need to increase the number of employees working directly in factions to serve factions, we're also asking permission to enter 57 units. In order to provide the secretariats of the committees, we need more than 30 people at the minimum. This is also due to the fact that we have a new committee and the greatly expanded functions of the Committee on Budget Affairs, as well as requests from other committees, taking into account the increasing volume of work. In addition, my fellow officers, we have a de facto office that employs thirty-one people who are not foreseen in the state. They were accepted earlier. We just need to get to the bottom of this. And others. We're asking you to add additional units to the apparatus units -- the rest that's left. What does that mean? In addition, we need 10 people to manage computer systems, taking into account the amount of work that needs to be done and serviced by the already technically saturated system. Plus, we're asking to allow eight state units to be introduced so that we can reorganize the Information Office, which would provide more full coverage of the Supreme Council's work. These are the basic proposals for changes that we're asking for. Please, the people's representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's really a very difficult question, and at the Conciliation Council in general, we agreed that all issues relating to the number of apparatus will be resolved once they are dealt with in the Committee on Budget and Rules Committee. There is no objection to the need to solve this problem, but. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it may be necessary to start with the committees of the Supreme Council, not with the administrations of the Supreme Council, because today the urgent need is to increase the number of relevant committees of the Supreme Council, on which today the burden has increased considerably and then continue to look. So I ask you, the faction, in particular, will support, the committee has not considered this project, the Rules Committee. Our faction will support the draft decision, but on condition that the order to increase the number by appropriate structures, including the secretariats of the committees and factions and groups, will be in agreement with the Regulatory Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u90	People's Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u91	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think there's going to be any objection to increasing numbers, because both the committees and the factions and the administration's apparatus can see that where there are bottlenecks, they have to be stitched up. I have a question. You've been making proposals about the state schedule, and we've been looking at it on factions, and I've been making my own comments. Do they count? Because it's about the functioning of structures like the Law Institute, the Information Analyst Office, which I think has been thoughtlessly eliminated in the past, because today, when examining a draft law, there is no general information about the state of legislation in this part, about the experience in other states, about the possible consequences of applying one or another. And this is an absolutely necessary tool for making decisions. So it would have to be taken into account. And to say that yesterday, for example, on the Legal Committee, when we hold meetings and miss about a hundred judges, we have come to the conclusion that we need to create a small sector of people who will constantly investigate the entire staffing situation in the judges. So these are the officials who go through the Supreme Council. We should not allow credulity here, but we should provide for this structure on the committee of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we were just looking at this. There's the Law Institute, I'll tell you that language didn't go well. As far as Information Analysis is concerned, we wanted this unit to provide its own deputies on the one hand, and on the other hand, to prepare the necessary materials to make it clear that not only does the Supreme Council work in the sessional room, but the committees work, that is to say, that there is a full picture of the work of the Supreme Council. The same applies to committees, including the Committee on Legal Policy, where there is great stress. I'd like to support you, Your Honor, in order to vote for the border number, and I'd like to ask for a direct distribution where these units will be sent to be aligned with the regulatory committee. And after the regulatory committee, after its agreement, the world saw it. If there's no objection, I'd like to support you. Isn't it, Alexander Alexandrovich? Ladies and gentlemen, please vote on draft regulation 1273, taking into account that the structure and the staffing arrangements will be specifically aligned with the regulatory committee. Please put the question to the vote. Please vote, Your Honor. I'm asking you to take your jobs and vote. [[11:43:27]] For 294 For 294, the decision is made. Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy of Veretennikov made this statement: "Please count my vote in favour" in the vote for the appointment of Pisconus as Attorney General in connection with the failure of my credit card." Dear colleagues, I also want to make an announcement. According to article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zubc Mikhail Vasilovich as part of the Democratic Initiatives Group. Are you motivated, Alexander Alexanderovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u93	It's for the stenographer. Alexander Frost. I was talking about informational analysis, referring to the science-analyst, the science-expert government that we had, and was eliminated, in my opinion, not very useful for the cause. No, that's not the management. This is Mandibura, which was, you remember. So when the Regulatory Committee considers the matter, let it take a close look at what can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, because I didn't quite understand what I was talking about either. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed and adopted a draft decree implementing the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2001". Peter Aleksyovich, do you need to speak? From the government will there be performances?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, just two weeks ago, a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2001" was submitted to your consideration. It was designed by the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, and I remind you that it was voted almost unanimously -- one person voted against. He won 228 votes last time and we had two weeks to finalize the decree and adopt it as a whole. Over the past two weeks, no additional proposals have been made to the budget committee. On Monday, the Budget Committee met for its meeting, put the draft Resolution and the vote into order and confirmed the proper evaluation of the Government's implementation of the 2001 budget, I remind you, it is proposed as unsatisfactory, and the time today allows us to recall certain signs of the budget. When gross domestic product rises by nearly 6 percent, the revenue generated by the budget increased by only 2 percent. At the same time, the income portion of the budget was 85.7 percent -- almost 15 percent of us had a budget gap and a corresponding underfunding of social articles in the first place. At the same time, the Court of Auditors and the Committee of Budgets found a significant breach in the use of budgetary legislation in the use of special funds. Only four budget managers -- law enforcement agencies, administrations, local organizations -- have converted the special fund into a large sum, and the overall overhaul of the special fund has cost more than 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. These are the same struggles that are taking place with economic operators and, unfortunately, this shameful practice continues this year. At the same time, there are significant funding imbalances. They were refinanced in comparison to the average level of government and the power of ministries, and I remind you that unfunded, as always, primarily science, culture and social spending. As an example, cultural spending has been financed up to 60 percent. This trend is being maintained, unfortunately, this year too. Tax debt has increased. The poor woman amounted to 6 billion as of January 1, 2002. And again, I'm assuming that we have these same trends in 2002, because now we're at about 9 billion. Uncontrollable, purposeless and inefficient use of budget funds was made. The problem was particularly acute in the use of the Cabinet of Ministers reserve funds. Despite the current legislation, the budget committee did not agree on nearly half of the proposals for the use of budget funds. Therefore, honourable deputies, this was the basis of the Budget Committee, without altering the basis for the resulting part of the rulings that we voted on last time. I'd like to add that, in fact, I'm surprised at this kind of philological search for our national MPs. You remember that last time there were suggestions that work would not be enough, or that there would be some other wording. I'd like to remind you that we have two possibilities. Or someone who is satisfied with this budget execution to vote in favour of the draft government regulation, where it was declared satisfactory and did not get the required number of votes, or to vote in favour of the draft budget committee ruling, where it is clear and clear that the government's work on the implementation of the 2001 budget was not satisfactory. I think the timing of the speech is over, and I would ask all the national MPs to move away from political sentiments and preferences and clearly determine whether to give a professional principle an assessment of whether this budget is being implemented and whether we are able to continue to accept the substantial violations of budgetary legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on June 20 we adopted this motion as a basis. The proposal, the written comments to the committee, did not come in. So we have every reason to accept the draft decision as a whole. I'm voting on draft decree 1181 on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001 for Ukraine to vote in general. People's deputies, please, will be determined by this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u97	Please support the budget committee's decision. [[11:50:37]] For 233 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in negative 233. The factions. A draft decree on the approval of the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2003 is being introduced for adoption. Please, Peter Alexiovich, is there a need for your speech?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we discussed this draft decision in detail during the budget hearings that took place on June 19th. Since then, the budget committee has, fortunately, had the opportunity for another two weeks to further develop the list of assignments and proposals of the Supreme Council that we are sending to the government. And I want to confirm to you that in the absolute majority of positions at the professional, professional level, we have found an understanding. As a result of these key positions where changes to the previous draft decision were made, this is that the budget committee went on to say that in 2003 we are leaving the budget allocation to the general and special funds. But in order to prevent any abuse by a special fund, only foreign loans and grants remain in the special fund, i.e. those rules that are governed by interstate agreements that Ukraine has and which have priority over Ukraine's national legislation. The point is, if we didn't leave a special regime to these grants, they would have to be part of the State Budget at the end of the year, which would be contrary to these agreements. There is no other additions and fillings, and there is some agreement between positions with the government, and the special fund should not contain. This is clearly stated in the Supreme Council’s proposals. Next, dear colleagues. Taking into account the numerous criticism of the inclusion in the State Budget of the Pension Fund, the Budget Committee, taking into account the Committee's proposals for pensioners and Communist factions, has taken the Pension Fund out of balance and now proposes to approve only the income and expenditure portion of the Pension Fund with a separate addition to the State Budget Act. I remind you that this approval procedure is now being implemented by the government. At the same time, there are no other interventions to the distribution project, the source of the Pension Fund. Implementation of pension reform, individual pension accounts. This norm is in no way in harm's way. We took into account the proposals made by the Science Committee, where we removed from the government’s position the obligation to transfer to the government’s acquisition of 3, 4 levels of accreditation. In addition, the increased need to focus on the social protection of the population has been added, where the budget priorities that should be clearly defined have been defined. In addition, we have included a number of commissions on measures to improve financing for the protection of road agriculture and other painful problems that Ukraine contains. The Budget Committee voted unanimously on these changes and I would like to ask the people's deputies to support the draft Budget Resolution of the Budget Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u100	National MP Nikolaynko. He will be followed by the national deputy of Yukhnov, Igor Rafailovich, after which he will be followed by the national deputy of Cibenko and the national deputy of Tkachenko. Then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u101	Nikolainko Socialist faction head of the committee of science and education. Dear Peter Alexiyovich and I have spoken to you and you have now confirmed that in Appendix 2 to the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2003 in paragraph 5 of Part 2 on the introduction of proposals to ensure the transition from budgetary maintenance of institutions to the public procurement system, this is a matter of 3,4 levels of accreditation. Are we removing this position from the appendix at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u102	No, it's not. The position was as follows, according to the Government's proposals, we had to put this order in place in 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u103	The committee's request to remove this position altogether. So we can vote him out of second place. Without making any proposals, we think it's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u104	It was the committee's decision and I'm willing to put your position on the vote and propose to support it. We are today, I say again, dear colleagues, I beg your attention! This rule in the government's proposals for inclusion in the State Budget Act has been removed by agreement with the Committee on Science and Education. And in our assignments, we only propose to develop a mechanism. This is not the norm of budget law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u105	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. National Deputy Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to elaborate briefly on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u106	Peter Alexiyovich, the first question about the removal of third-, fourth-level education facilities, which are now budgeted for budget recipients, is excluded. Now there is another paragraph that brings school textbooks to local budgets. You can't do that. Have you ruled it out or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u107	Dear Igor Raphaelovich! As for the first question, the position has been resolved and we have now simply introduced a general norm as a tendency for the government to move instead of state funding to government procurement. As far as textbooks are concerned, there is no such standard. But I'm sure the government and I need to do more work to identify clear sources of funding for the textbook program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u108	National Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, I'd like to ask you once again for a transcript to confirm that the funds of the Pension Fund are being removed from the State Budget, as this is a matter of principle. And the second question I'd like to ask you. The draft decrees on what to do with the inventory and accounting of the current social benefits system are included. I absolutely support that, but what position did the committee take on the problem of replacing the current social benefits system with what is called monetary compensation -- address aid? I reiterate that this is a mechanism to destroy the social protection system itself. And if we don't give it up, the faction won't support the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Regarding the Pension Fund. I reiterate that by insistence, including proposals by the Communist faction, the Budget Committee has led the Pension Fund out of the state budget balance. And so today we confirm, we are the Supreme Council, these changes that have taken place before, the balance of income and expenditure of the Pension Fund has been approved by the government. Right now, we're only doing this after we approve the income and expenditure, and we're not touching any other questions. We have delegated these powers to the Supreme Council and have obliged the government to make proposals for necessary changes to legislation to implement this Supreme Council proposal. I mean, this question is solved, it's decided at the suggestion of your faction. As far as the benefits are We do. It also aroused resentment on the part of the members of the budget committee when the thesis appears to be possible and beneficial when the benefits are replaced by an address aid, but we don't see any criteria for providing address aid, nor when the recipients of this assistance. And I'm sure that replacing these extremely painful issues without solving them will create a major social concern for the population. So the government's mandate has been illustrated and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u111	National Deputy Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u112	The government has been commissioned to develop an address aid mechanism and not to cancel without it. I'm ready to focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u113	Dear Peter Alexiovich! Dear National Deputies! You and I are considering, and we need to make a decision on the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2003. If so, we have heard not so long ago a message from the President, where he has clearly defined the planning of recognized and long-term forecasting. I mean, there's a process of reorientation in the development of our economy. If so, for the year 2003, an estimated 255 billion gross domestic product was made available. And now let's get out of the budget that we're putting in, and more specifically, the budget parameters in this resolution. If we come from the proposals made by the committee today, Peter Alexiyovich and the distinguished national deputies, we will not improve this budget because it has only 17 percent of its gross domestic product. We have to make it clear that in all civilized states, at least 45-55 percent of the gross domestic product is at stake. I understand that we're not going to do this in one year, given that we have 80-90 percent of the major products that are privatized. Therefore, an offer is made. First. For the following year, at least 35 percent of gross domestic product in the amount of income and at least 35 percent of the cost of production will be paid. And the third. I propose in the Budget Resolution that we define clearly three main directions: first, food security, the development of the APC, second, energy and third, science is applied and fundamental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u114	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. In answer to these questions, I would like to draw two numbers. First, the level or percentage of the redistribution and the ratio of the redistribution to the gross domestic product today is not 17 but 23 percent. And we also share your concern that this is extremely little. Because back in 1997, that was 30 percent. This is explained by two reasons. The first reason, and I think, is the most important. These are tax administration weaknesses. Just for today, much of the economy is in the shade. And the second. This is a declared reduction in tax pressure that has less impact on this very important indicator. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, just a moment. What we're putting in the Pension Fund in the state budget is going to show you that an additional 10 percent of the gross domestic product, because the estimated budget of the Pension Fund is 20 billion. Another 0 percent are added to the redistribution. So we're redistributing by 23, and we're redistributing by 34, respectively. And that's a little bit closer to the level of civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u115	Peter Alexiovich, we're moving on. Dear colleagues, I would like to support me in that we are moving on to a discussion, and we are making a decision. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to one detail. The first one will be the government's proposal, where the government proposes to approve the budgetary resolution in the way it passed it on to us. The second will be the budget committee's proposal, where we recommend that we take into account the government's well-known proposal and accept our proposals and tasks that it should take into account in budget development.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, everyone understands. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Approval of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2003 under heading 1126 is a draft government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u118	The Budget Committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u119	People's deputies, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u120	Doesn't support it. It's government. The government project, the budget committee does not support it. [[12:04:34]] For-125
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u121	In - 125, no decision is made. I'll have the factions, please. Finance Minister Jusko is asking for words. I'm only asking you, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have had a lot of discussions, in my view, of fruitful discussions on the Committee on Budgets. On the absolute majority of issues, we really do have an understanding. The only thing I would like to draw attention to is the session hall, the distinguished national deputies. In accordance with article 28 of Part Eight, we, as the Government, have to submit a draft law on the state budget for the following year on the legislation in force. A portion of the comments and errands require changes to existing legislation. Based on reality, we realize that it is impossible to do so by September 15. So I'm just asking you for a transcript and for you with such a warning that the government will do everything possible to carry out the Supreme Council's mandate, but of course we have to work on the draft state budget, taking into account the current current legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is largely about the comments and proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Decree on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2003 at number 1126-p, which introduces the Committee on Budget Affairs. Take it off the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I see the position of a socialist faction. This is not principled. We're ready to lift the funding rule for 3 and 4 levels of accreditation. Please put to the vote without this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u125	Peter Alexiyovich, I said, with suggestions and observations. This means that proposals and observations are taken into account. Once again, dear colleagues, please allow me to conduct the session. I'm voting on proposals and comments on the project based on 1126-p.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u126	The Committee on Budgets supports. For. [[12:07:24]] For 231
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I am voting, if there are no warnings, the draft decree as a whole, draft regulation 1126-p as a whole, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u128	Please be supportive. [[12:07:52]] For 252
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u129	For -252, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u130	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u131	The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, before we announce our recess, I ask you to listen to my proposal. We will have many questions to consider and vote today. I suggest you, your honor, vote for us to continue our work until we have exhausted the issues that are set out in our plan today. I have the right to make such an offer, please support. [[12:08:37]] For-191 Thank you for not wanting to work. In factions, please give. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 30-minute recess. We'll be back at 12 o'clock for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room and we'll continue our work. We're continuing our work. A draft Decree on the 2001 report of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting is being submitted to the consideration and adoption of the decision. The chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, is invited to address this issue. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. If there is a need, or if there is a need, we may proceed immediately to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u133	Dear colleagues. I would also like to invite you to the hall to brief you on the situation between our hearing and the current vote. So historically, all of us, and the National Council, first of all, had a unique opportunity for two weeks, let's say, to cover the holes or convince us that we were wrong or that we were unconvincing. But that number of appeals to the committee that came from our report and to this day, all of our ideas did not match. How many court decisions and protocols have I come up with regarding the licensing of television and radio broadcasting companies, and I have once again been confirmed by the idea that apparently the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting has acted in fact from the position of a conflict body that has not been able to find any understanding with the radio organizations or explain its behavior with journalists. And don't explain to the committee and the Supreme Council of Ukraine how they did it. You've seen how there's been a discussion in the media over the past two weeks, and when we're talking about the need for not only change on the National Council, we're talking about those people who work on the National Council, and you know that according to the National Council, they have the status of Vice Prime Minister, and they have the weight or status of ministers. It seems to me that all who work for the National Council should understand the weight and responsibility of these positions. It seemed that the National Council’s present composition felt that it was someone who had given them the positions of vice - chiefs and ministers, and these positions did not oblige them to do anything. I think the second important thing is that the Supreme Council should show that it is exercising parliamentary control. And not only does she exercise parliamentary control, she can decide that we have to take responsibility for illegal decisions. If we just talk today and say that the Nakrad has made some mistakes, but we will not make a decision to approve the report, and accordingly we will create a precedent when there is no law or responsibility in this country. You can work for four years, you can solve your problems, your corporate group problems, but in the end, they're going to trade you in for a decent vacation. So today we face the need to set a precedent for a good precedent of responsibility for when laws do not decide. With regard to decisions, we have met with virtually all the MPs and factions and have made some specific points that allow us to update the entire composition of the National Council. Which actually solves the President's hands, because we call off the approval of the head of the National Council, and thus the President has the opportunity to be absolutely free of his four if he considers it necessary to change it, and if he listens to our position on Nacrada's criticism. Moreover, I have to say here that the National Council has largely established the President, because by filing a false report to the President and forcing him to sign it, to approve this report, where the report does not reflect at all what the National Council has done. I've already given examples that I have all the heads of the district administrations that, by the decision of the Nakrad at the end of September, all the district state television companies will be expelled from Inter and no one has offered them another license or other speaking hours. So a few thousand people at the end of September are going to lose their jobs simply. And I don't think the President supports that. It's just that no one in the president's report wrote about it. And that's another argument, in my opinion, that makes us critical enough. Negotiations with factions show that we have an understanding of how to form our four. And here is the approach of most factions tolerant. And finally, I would like to say that we just have to tell all of the people who are making decisions in this country that we have three concepts of life in this country. One concept is that if you don't want to live by law and you live by the concept, that's an understandable concept. There's a second concept, if you don't live by the law, you won't be responsible. It's a common concept, by habit. I would like Nacrad and all the bodies that we authorize to implement serious decisions to live by the laws that we adopt. I would therefore like to support the committee’s decision to continue working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mikola Volodymyrovich, please wait, there may be questions. Dear colleagues! I would like us to come out of the fact that we are not discussing matters today, but we are making the right decisions. And obviously we've already discussed it. I'm going to ask you a few questions. Please, Deputy Martínjuk. He was followed by a national deputy named Konovaluk, the national deputy of Vaszczuk. Well, if there's so much, let's write it down, dear fellows. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, five minutes to ask. Please sign up. Once again, I would like to say that we are not discussing today, and today we are voting for the issue that we have already discussed. Please point it on the board. National MP Martinyuk. I've announced, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u135	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, we, the faction, are interested in a rather principled question. We will support the decision, the draft decision, we will vote unanimously in favour of it, but since the decree expresses mistrust to the four who represent the Supreme Council at the National Council on Television and Radio talk, is the committee ready to consider this issue in parallel today? Because we're stretching it and we can stretch it for a pretty indefinite time. I mean, is the committee in the complex ready to consider what he's proposing in the decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have, as I have informed during the report, that the committee will work in a state of readiness to vote today if the good will of the Supreme Council is to be done. This morning, we addressed our decision to the Office of the Supreme Council and to the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, our committee was looking at 18 candidates from MP groups and factions, and by secret ballot, we identified five candidates for the four positions that we are considering. If the Head of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council consider it necessary to consider this issue today, we can distribute the decision, it has already been registered. And let's say later, after the decision is made, we vote in favour of the four Supreme Council on condition that our decision is upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u137	Thank you. People's MP Chelnokov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u138	Please give the floor to Deputy Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u139	National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction. I would like to address the head of the committee in support of the question raised by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. I'd like to say that we are. I wouldn't want us to ask questions like that, if so. The point is, we have to be logical in our actions. If we recognize the work of the National Council as unsatisfactory, we express our mistrust, we simply have to act in harmony with what has been said today. So let's say I, as a deputy, insist that this issue be resolved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u141	All I'm saying is that I'm not being denied. If there is support, the committee has worked in such a way that we are ready for today’s consideration. What's more, I'm looking here, and when Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko reported, and we made unpopular decisions, the finance minister had the courage to sit here. And when we look at Nacrada's fate, I don't see any member of the Nacrada, it's also the attitude of the National Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That at least one of Nakrad’s clerics could be sent to listen to the outcome of the discussion. So I think if there's any good will, I'm going to vote the next four today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u142	National Deputy Ratushnyak, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tomenko. First of all, I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that the National Council was in charge of the Supreme Council. This is very revealing. The second, led by Mr. Cold, means that our electronic radio and television broadcasts have been controlled by two clans that lead to usurpation, propaganda and agitation, from which the country loses. It's anti-democracy. Third. You don't have to speculate, dear colleagues, about how we're about to resign and no one's going to make any decisions. It is better not to make any decisions, in my opinion, than to make those lawless, or criminal decisions that this National Council is making today. I'm asking them to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u144	Well, maybe I'm just saying one more time that I agree with that idea that we can't afford the luxury of going on vacation without changing without the Nacrada being renewed. So, of course, after this decision, we need to form our fourth so that the Nacrad in the new warehouse can start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u145	National Deputy Konovaluk, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Nikolai Vladimirovich. In assessing the activities of the National Council of Ukraine, we understand and have repeatedly made critical remarks on the activities of that body. Therefore, I would also like to agree with the position that has already been said and yet to say that if we are really making decisions on the evaluation of activities and are already technically ready to decide on the rotation of the Nacsvet members, let us reunite these two issues. And if this is to be considered, it may be with a recess, we can return to this vote after the adjournment of the evening meeting. It is necessary to include it in the agenda. Therefore, this issue is also interlinked and the position of our faction is to vote only when these two issues are united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u147	I think, obviously, by the logic of things, we would have to act in this way: if there is support for the leadership of the Supreme Council, the composition of the Supreme Council, we are voting on this issue. Because we have to accept mistrust first, but we agree that in 30 minutes or after lunch, we vote on the proposals of the committee that the Supreme Council has made. Then there will be an understanding that today we will finally finish this question, but I fully agree with you that we should then, Vladimir Mikhailovich, agree that we are considering this issue in two parts: both the ruling and the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is up, I just want to give you some information. As soon as I received the material from the committee, there were really five candidates. But I'm coming out of what we have to decide first about the decision, during the break, to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council with the faction leaders to let them know that the committee was working and then the agreed decision to make for your consideration. And now I'm laying the groundwork for the replacement draft, registration number 1185. I'm putting the draft of this ruling on the ground. Dear colleagues, on the basis of this, please let me vote. [[12:54:44]] For 244 For -244, the decision is made. Honorable Colleagues — What Will Be Noteable or Complementary? Please sign in. By factions, please explain. Thank you. Please sign up. National Deputy Kalinchuk, Agrarian faction. Do you have a motive for voting? For reasons of vote, the Pavlovsky People’s Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the personnel issues are voted on once. There is no foundation in general. We voted and the decision was taken. Therefore, there is no need to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u150	The thing is, it's a bad question, and it's a draft decision. I ask you, your honor, to follow the rules as well. Konovaluk. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think it would be appropriate to vote on this decision in general after the break. And separately add to this decision those materials and proposals of the committee that relate to the rotation of the members of the National Council. What's more, it's not just our faction, but it's the position of other factions. So I think it would be useful to vote in general with the addition of the rotation committee proposals after the lunch break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I don't think we have the right to break up. I would like to tell National Deputy Konovaluk that, according to the Rules and the Law of Proposal, the Committee is introducing the application for appointment of members of the National Council by the Head of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council will not work. I've just been handed over to ask these questions. If there's no objection, I'm putting in a draft ruling as a whole. Please vote. [[12:57:36]] For-164 Please explain the factions. Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u153	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you've just probably forgotten that you're going to announce on the issue of making proposals to a decision that was taken on a basis, you've heard one of the proposals, and there have been other national MPs. Therefore, we must conclude the discussion of proposals and then put to the vote in general. This is explained by the fact that a number of factions have not now voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u154	All right, you got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u155	Yes, and as for the proposals, I think, dear colleagues, let's support the suggestion made by the Head of the Supreme Council that, in fact, we are now voting on this draft ruling as a whole, but we are taking into account the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council that a special Conciliation Council will be convened during the break to take a decision on the inclusion in the agenda today after the interruption of the question of the rotation of the composition that belongs to the four. To the composition that we should recommend from the Supreme Council. If, as it were, we, with such a proposal, a protocol commission from the Head, agree, we can vote in favour of the decree in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u156	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u157	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, practically, the vote on the basis showed that the mood and political will of the national deputies to make this decision are there. I support Adam Ivanovich. And as a member of the Freedom of Speech Committee and head of the subcommittee on radio and television, I want to tell you. We discussed it on a committee to calm people down, discuss candidates, it's the head of the Supreme Council's prerogative, we offered it. This list contains representatives of both Communists and other factions. It's a completely different question that we're really going to consider after lunch, and now we just need to confirm our decision by voting on the basis. Now to vote in favour of this decree as a whole. And after lunch, I want us to look at this and not leave the National Council, basically, naked. I want us to make this offer. I ask you, comrades, to vote, and after that we can rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u158	No, we need more work, Vladimir Alexandrovich. National Deputy Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Socialist faction, Seminouk. I support the draft decision, and I believe that it should be put to the vote as a whole and that it should not be delayed with regard to the election of the members of the National Council. Only the main thing is that they go through all the factions, so that their candidatures can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u160	Thank you. National deputy of Nechiporuk, faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Non-Cyprus, 194 constituency. Dear colleagues, there was a question of the rotation of the National Radio and Television Council, in principle, from nothing. And you all see that if you support this decision today and make a decision, the National Council will not act until September. Who needs this: to destroy what is there? Because the President won't introduce his four candidatures, and that's going to ruin the entire structure that works. So that's a question you can't ask until September. And if someone on the committee came up with a fever after the election, let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Time spent on it. Well, respectable colleagues, five minutes, time is running out. If you'll excuse me, please, the Turkish People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland, Turkey. Indeed, the Nakrad needs to be retired today, in any case our quota, because it has become an organ of political censorship in the media. But as for the appointment of new members, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. With regard to the appointment of new members, further consultations are needed. Therefore, today we must vote in favour of the resignation of our representatives in Nacrad, and only next week after further consultations will we include this issue in the agenda of voting for new names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! I am putting together draft decree 1185 on the 2001 National Council of Ukraine Report on Television and Radio Broadcasting. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[13:03:22]] For 246 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you at 15 hours -- I'm making an announcement -- at 15 hours of faction leaders to meet in the room to discuss issues related to candidates for the National Council for Television and Radio. Dear colleagues! The factions indicate. Thank you. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on intellectual property issues in the global information system of the Internet is being submitted for consideration and adoption. [[second reading]] Igor Rafailovich Jukhnovsky reports. Please, Igor Raphailovich, if there is a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u165	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, honourable deputies! This is about making minor changes to the three laws governing the law of the advertising process in Ukraine, namely, the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Industrial Samples. The advertising of these industrial models can be done through the Internet, and it's being introduced here. The Law on the Protection of the Rights of Commercial Signs is introduced as a trademark and domain name, which is the name used to register the computer in the Internet system. The Internet system’s name is very often used in advertising related goods or services. And at the end of the third. The Law on the Protection of Rights on the Topography of Integral Microschemes also proposes to introduce the Internet system as a means of advertising appropriate connections. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The committee, as well as the General Legal Office, are asked to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. I'm voting to adopt this bill in a second reading. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on intellectual property issues in the global information system of the Internet is included. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:06:09]] For 314 Dear colleagues! please vote in favour of this project as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[13:06:33]] For 334 Decision taken. You are being reviewed and adopted by a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Waste, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation. [[second reading]] The reporter will be the national MP of Bronnikov. Please. Just a minute. On the grounds of the vote, please, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u167	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Peter Pavlovich, as we consider this bill at a faction meeting today, we are ready to support it, but members of the committee. Members of our faction, members of the committee working on the committee, reported that the bill had not been discussed at the committee meeting. If so, we do not have the right to consider it today. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u168	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u169	Deputies! Dear President! This is not the law. Law 0972 deals with changing the deadline for the Government to propose amendments to other laws in relation to the adoption of the Law on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations. The Cabinet of Ministers made these changes. Unfortunately, we failed to consider them yesterday and this number 972 law has become obsolete. The Committee therefore proposes that it be withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u170	So what does the committee offer? Take it. Here was an offer that seemed to suggest a deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u171	Take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The committee is proposing to cancel the decision on the draft adoption bill in its first reading. No objections? I'll put it to a vote. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[13:09:22]] For 280 Decision taken. The factions. It is introduced for consideration and adoption on second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Communications Act. [[second reading]] Reporter - First Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Transport and Communications Long Stanislaw Alexiyyovich. Stanislav Alexiyovich, do you need to speak on this issue or do we vote now? Is there any need to explain whether we should vote? Well, please say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u173	This law, introduced by the Supreme Council of the past calling, was considered, adopted in the first reading and considered by the Liaison, Construction, Transport, and Liaison Committee. In fact, the question concerns the definition of the term "counsel." Since worldwide there are three forms of subscriber salary: fixed subscription fee, variable part, that is, wave and combined. As for the change in the proposed law, we go to a clear notion of a combined form of subscription salary that does not limit the application of all possible forms that exist in other countries. A comparative table for the bill is given to you. Taking into account that the definition at the legislative level of the term "counseltary fee" will ensure its unequivocal application by all service providers, please adopt the draft law as proposed by our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u174	Dear colleagues. Is there a question? National MP Bondarenko. I ask you to write down who wants to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u175	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. Dear Stanislave Alexiyovich, the combined payment you're proposing by this law, is a concept that you've just explained. But you tell me if you've ever had to buy a sausage in a store so that the scale on the scales is just up to the seller. And as a buyer, you didn't see how much sausage is weighed. Today, we use a telephone phone without a computer in our apartment, believe it, and sometimes we do not fully believe the reports of the telephone stations about how many minutes we talked about. I would like to ask you: Will the phone numbers be installed on the phone, and on whose account will they be set when using the combined cost of communication?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u176	Thank you for asking. First of all, the whole point of this project is to define the term "counsel." And it does not prevent us from further developing this law. With regard to the monitoring of the length of telephone conversations, the technical conditions for the hardware and software of all versions of electronic automatic telephone stations, projects and contracts for their supply and construction, which were made in previous years, did not provide for appropriate data transmissions, software for detailed monitoring of the duration of real-time conversations. So what we have today is just digital stations, modern equipment, which we have recently just installed, digital equipment, is being made possible. The time-consuming system is stationary equipment and access to information by the technical staff through computer technology. And it's technically impossible to install the counter directly into the subscriber. Therefore, all the work done today on communications networks provides for the installation and retrieval of this information at customer service sites. It's a technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u177	The meters in the apartments will be set on the phones, won't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u178	I'll say again that it's technically impossible to set the counter directly into the subscriber today. And what's more, we have nine and a half million subscribers today, and if we even went to that kind of implementation, the question is, "What are the costs?" Because subscribers today are not prepared to pay $200 for a counter there, roughly speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u179	National MP Domansky, Communist faction. Light up on the board, please, those who want to ask questions. National Deputy Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u180	Please give the word to Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u181	National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u182	I have a question for both the Chairman and the one who reports the laws in the second reading. I want to inform and remind you that the laws in the second reading are adopted in a completely different way than the laws in the first reading. So there's a comparative table for each article, and every remark, if there's no insistence on the national MP who made the remarks, then it takes it off, as it were. In this case, it is very good that there is only one proposal for the law and there is no comment, so we can vote it as we vote the law in the first reading. But I'd like to follow the law, the regulation that if there are amendments, the remarks, when we adopt them in the second reading, we're going to adopt these bills in the second reading, not in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u183	Thank you. People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u184	I ask you to give the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk. But it's a very delicate question. Other forms are actually taken off by this law? Since the form itself is quite cosnosical, it is difficult to understand. And then, Kostinjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u185	I'm saying once again that the subscription fee in the proposal that was proposed, the law did not define the term "bonontary salary", the national deputy Monday suggested the definition of only a fixed part of the subscriber's salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u186	Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u187	One minute, let's stick to a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor! I want to draw your attention to the first reading. The first reading showed that the subscriber's fee is the consumer's contribution to other forms of consumer accounts. The second reading changed the first reading. Why do we change in our second reading of politics, in our first reading? I don't think that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u189	I'm answering your question. In fact, the proposal made by the national deputy Monday refers to the legislative introduction of only a fixed subscription fee. This is evidenced by the fact that other forms of consumer accounting have not been applied to the same services. In this case, subscribers who use small-scale communications services will partly finance the provision of services to those subscribers who use them in much larger amounts, which to us is socially unfair. And this question was discussed in very detail on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are no comments, no insistence, no amendments to the articles, I put the bill to the vote in the second reading. People's deputies, please. Time's up. I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[13:18:15]] For 209 For -209, no decision taken. Out of procedure, please, People's Deputy Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u191	I would like to inform the Ukrainian National Deputies that the Transport and Communications Committee did not agree with these changes to the law. In the second reading, he cannot be accepted because the committee did not vote in favour of such an editorial. This fundamentally changes the essence of the law. He cancels the second-to-second tariff, people are going to pay again, you don't know why. It's a monopolistic policy of the Shrimp, which is protected by Mr. Long here in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u192	Thank you. National MP Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u193	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, I don't understand the opening of the discussion after the decision has been made. The vote was a successful one, 209 votes. This means that the bill is not adopted and in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules is considered to be rejected. There is nothing further to discuss. There is an effective solution. So we have to move on to the next item in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u194	Thank you, People's Deputy Klukkowski. But while we were voting, I was unable to speak on behalf of the Lucenko People’s Deputies. And then he got the word. The bill, I think, needs to be corrected in order for it to be worked out and considered in connection. National MP Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u195	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, especially neighbors from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I understand from the replica that Yuri Ivanovich of the procedure, Yuri Vitaliovich of the procedure, from what's going on, now our colleagues have realized that we should support this bill. Because his point is that we're protecting our double-paying veterans by the same law, and then he's paying the subscriber's fee, and then he's paying the fares he's having. And here it's suggested that you enter one payment, one form, one form. So I think it's absolutely logical to support this bill. Thank you. And vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute. The word for replication has a national MP, Long, and we will continue to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Well, first of all, my opponent probably wasn't at that committee meeting where this issue was dealt with in some detail at first. Secondly, with regard to the monopoly policy of Ukretelekrma, this is a question of making this decision precisely and aimed at protecting the ranks of the population, which otherwise will pay more for those who talk more. So I ask you to go back and uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u198	Honorable National MPs. At the suggestion of the National Deputies, I place a vote on the second reading of the draft law amending the law on communication, please vote. [[13:22:30.]] For 242 Dear colleagues. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on communication as a law. In general, it's like the law. [[13:23:00]] For 244 For - 244 decisions made. The factions. Respectful colleagues are being introduced into the second reading of the grain and grain market bill in Ukraine. Reporter to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk. Congratulations on your birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u199	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of the past vocation in second reading. But according to the Rules, the bills that have passed from past convocations are voted for by the second vocation. I would like to emphasize that grain production, as one of the most important and indispensable food resources, is among the priority sectors of the Ukrainian APC and is to ensure the stability of the economy, the well-being of society and the food security of the States. In recent years, there has been a lot of opposition! This is happening, so the decline in grain production, but the increase in grain production, for example last year, did not lead to an expected increase in agricultural income. The main reason is the constant fall in prices. Last year and this year, it is clear that there is no working market mechanism, no shortage of government regulation of the grain market. You could say that there is no such regulation at all. The draft law prepared by the Committee is aimed at creating legal, economic and organisational conditions for competitive production and the formation of a grain market to provide the domestic needs of the State in food, seeds and feed grains. Increasing export potential to improve grain market legislation in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the principles of the market economy. The introduction of the statutory mechanisms for the purchase of cereals and the intervention fund will ensure the guaranteed yield of agricultural grain producers, reduce the negative effects of seasonal fluctuations in the level of grain prices. The second important point of the bill is the introduction of storage documents on grain, which will make it easier for agricultural producers to access financial resources because warehouse documents can be used as collateral, i.e. to obtain credit in commercial banks. In addition, the bill will contribute to the development and order of the complex production, the commercial grain market, and the civilised market for yesterday’s nonpayment crisis, and so forth. The proposed law was discussed on the committee and voted unanimously. During the drafting of the bill, we'll talk about it, 102 comments and suggestions were made before the third reading, 72 of them counted, 30 rejected. All comments rejected by the exclusion of some agree with their authors at meetings of the committee and the working group. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration support the bill. The Chief Legal Authority points out that the bill can be adopted in a second reading. Part of the comments made by the General Legal Office agreed, part of it disagreed. We offer to accept it in a second reading, to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your attention. I want to say that all the amendments, the comments that were made by the deputies, we have written them separately, and today there is only a remark in the venerable Igor Rafailovich 2 revisions. I would like to give him the floor and vote on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u200	Thank you. Igor Raphailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u201	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! I actually have two amendments. One amendment concerns who will conduct the replacement purchase of grain. In the law, the committee decided that the buying of grain by a mortgage could only be done by a government agent and by persons authorized by him. They're all in the middle of buying grain at the expense of the budget. This is generally unrealistic before execution throughout Ukraine. I believe that the State guarantees the purchase of grain. One. Two. The State guarantees the minimum price for grain to be in the state. And so my first amendment is that, apart from a government agent, there could be other agents of non-state ownership. They all have to go to the competition and this competition has to be organized by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Agriculture has to be responsible for the work of the agents. If there's only one state agent, there'll be a monopoly and there'll be lawlessness. So I'm asking you to accept my amendment regarding the fact that the agents in the pawnshop are government agents and agents who go through the Cabinet of Ministers after the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote the amendment that Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky insists on. She was rejected by the committee. People's deputies, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u203	The committee turned it down. Only a state agent has to be. [[13:28:45]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions. Your second offer, Igor Rafailovich, please. Listen carefully, dear fellows! Igor Raphailovich, please. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u204	The second amendment refers to article 9 of the Law, which states that the State Budget provides assistance and assistance to agents and authorized to purchase grains. I want to turn it off. I want the 9th article to list the very subjects of farming that can be granted state subsidies. Because in the 5th article, the operators are called the producers, the agents, the authorized ones, and the others who are involved in the grain trade. So I want the 9th article to exclude "others who deal in grain trade," so that the state can only provide targeted assistance to manufacturers, agents and authorized individuals. It's got to be listed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, may agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine about this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u207	The committee supports this amendment. [[13:30:25]] For 251 For 251. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft grain and grain market law in Ukraine for adoption on second reading. Please make up your mind. [[13:30:52]] For 346
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u208	The committee's asking you to accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the draft grain and grain market law in Ukraine as a whole as a law. [[13:31:19]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being submitted to your consideration. Dear colleagues, let me make this information before we are determined by vote. On Tuesday, you received a detailed draft of the agenda for the first session of the Supreme Council, which includes 145 questions at the Committee's suggestion. The project was agreed on Monday, July 1, at the Conciliation Council. I will remind you that out of the total number of questions included in the draft agenda of fifteen urgent, thirty - four are requested by the Government to consider ten of the issues of treaty ratification and treaty ratification in the first order. However, when discussing the matter, additional suggestions were made by the national deputies at the session hall on Tuesday. You are presented with a list of these additional proposals for the draft agenda. So I propose now, without discussion, to accept the draft order of the day for the first session as a basis, and after deciding with the vote for the additional proposals in the package. And then taking into account the consequences of voting on additional proposals to adopt the agenda as a whole. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution "On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" Document number 1225. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:33:15.]] For-81 In factions, please give. Ladies and gentlemen, according to what has been suggested, I ask you to listen carefully to what we are about to vote for. I'm voting on draft decree number 1225, on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call with proposals for inclusion and removal, which are further given to you. Please vote on the basis. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:34:07]] For 176 The decision is not taken. In factions, please give. Dear people's deputies, then I'll offer two more options. I ask you to listen carefully. First. I'm voting on the draft Decree 1225 "On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call with proposals for further inclusion of issues." Please make up your mind. Here's these suggestions. Turn-on. [[13:35:03]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the final bid to the vote. Please decide on the vote on the basis of the draft Decree 225 "On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call" and with proposals for the removal of bills and questions. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:35:58]] For-167 For - 167, no decision is taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we move on to the next question. At 3 p.m. at the Conciliation Council, we will discuss this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 28.12.2001. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for European Integration, Chali Alexander Alexandrovich, will report on this issue. You don't? Will you report it, Vasil Vasilovich? Dear colleagues, we have arranged for the reporter to be the man appointed by the President. Unless there's a President's definition on the grounds that a person is on a mission and will be replaced by another person. So please sit down, please, onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovich will be speaking from the committee. And I'd like to write a letter to the government, we've already sent it, another one just to get that person to speak, and an authorized person who's authorized by the President. The Supreme Council is not a doorway. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u210	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, there is, of course, an important question for you to consider regarding the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to remind you that last July 11, 2001, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Implementation of Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. On August 4, that same year, the President of Ukraine returned this law with his proposals to the Supreme Council for reconsideration. On November 29th of last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on my report, re-adopted this law and counted four amendments to the President, i.e. we fully counted the President's proposals on this law. I would like to remind you that 341 deputies — more than two thirds of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition — voted for the adoption of the law. On December 28, after the adoption of this law last year, the President returned this law to us for consideration by the Supreme Council and had already proposed rejecting it. What is the position of the committee? We have considered the President's proposals, and the position of the committee is that we simply have no legal basis for re-examination of the President or the veto before this law. Since according to article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to explanations, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, of July 7, 1998, which was proposed by the President, should the veto amendments be taken into account and voted more than two thirds, the President should automatically sign the law. So today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and honourable deputies, there is no other way to send these documents to the President and this law for resignation. I think maybe I should point out to the Legal Authority of the President's Administration that they simply don't submit to the guarantor of the Constitution in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I think the offer is clear. The committee proposes to adopt draft regulation 0897-p to amend the President's law to sign it in view of the fact that all the observations have been taken into account. If there's no objection, I'm putting the draft ruling on the ground. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:32]] For 305 Decision taken. I ask you to vote in favour of this project as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:59]] For 318 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the prosecution of legislative acts by executive authorities, local self-government bodies and their officials, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 4.01.2001. From the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Anatolia Pavlovich, is appointed. Is Anatoly Pavlovich here? Please, how much time do you need? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u212	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, there are proposals by the President of Ukraine for a law amending certain legislative acts to accuse the law enforcement authorities, local self-government authorities and their officials. This law, according to the President, cannot be signed for such reasons. First. The Constitution of Ukraine sets out a special order for the cessation of laws, acts by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers' acts may be declared non-constitutional, Constitutional Court or repealed by the President of Ukraine. In addition, the law that is being considered is the Complementary Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine with the new chapter 31 "d". It provides for the right of citizens of citizens' associations, including political parties, local centres, which are legal persons to appeal to the court for recognition of illegal legal acts by the executive authority, local self-government authorities or their officials, and for the courts of these complaints. This is not in line with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the civil procedural code of Ukraine, and other laws. The point is that the position of chapter 31 "d" proposed to complement the Civil Code and the Procedural Code regulates issues that are already regulated by the Code. The provisions of Chapter 31 "a" that exist in this Code fully regulate the right of a citizen to be charged with the courts of decisions, actions or omissions of executive organs, local self-government bodies and their officials. Thus, the adoption of the law would result in a situation where the same relationship would fall under two chapters of the Civil Code and the Procedural Code. Thus, the decisions of the executive authorities that will be taken will not be properly decided by the court on the basis of the presence of such collegiates. Furthermore, in accordance with article 248 of the Civil Procedure Code proposed by law, legal acts may be the subject of a judicial charge, which are aimed at regulating a particular kind of public relationship and at repeated application. This also does not correspond to the concept of legislation that exists in the theory of state and law. In addition to these issues, there are some other contradictions that make it impossible to pass the law. In view of what has been said, the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the prosecution of the legislative acts of the executive authorities, the local self-government authorities and their officials to reject, as such, in contravention of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, duplicates the rules of other laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u213	Thank you. National MP Klukkowski, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u214	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! You refer to chapter 31 of the Civil Procedure Code. However, it is known that this chapter is dedicated to the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens, as explained by the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on decisions relating to these citizens, public authorities and local authorities. Please tell me, which chapter of the Civil Procedural Code or any other procedural code should be used to resolve disputes between, say, local authorities and local government authorities, which are very often involved in local self-government? What's the process, what's the standard, if 31 "d" is cancelled?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u215	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that chapter 31 "a" refers, indeed, to charges in court of actions or omissions of executive organs, local self-government bodies and their officials. With regard to the acts that you are referring to, these acts can also be accused in accordance with this article, since there may be different subjects to which they apply regarding the rights of a citizen. I'd like to say that any act can violate the rights of a citizen and in the interests of a citizen, complaints can be filed by different authorities, including the prosecutor's office. With regard to the prosecution of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers, acts by the President of Ukraine, they may be recognised by the Constitutional Court. Unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u216	National deputy of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u217	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear reporter! You understand very well that we need to move more quickly towards the implementation of European standards again. The bill is one of the steps that will be taken to ensure that we have administrative reform and a new European administrative law when we can sue the courts for executive and local self-government decisions. And we need this, without it we can't, because the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees this and, sorry, and the new Civil Code says that all persons are equal. The Civil Code provides for the concept of a person, like the European Convention on Human Rights, whether he is a natural person or a legal person. So this bill provides for the possibility for legal persons to challenge these decisions, and the existing CDC does not allow legal persons to do so -- just physically. So this bill improves the situation. Why is the Ministry of Justice and practically the President against improving the legal situation? To build the rule of law? To give equal opportunities to both physical and legal persons to challenge decisions made by authorities and self - government?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u218	Thank you for the question, Your Honor Sergey Petrovich, but I think you too will agree that if the bill is adopted, it will create certain coalitions, that is to say, certain coalitions will be created in this part of the complaint against the decisions of the authorities. Because what's written in chapter 31 "a" refers to decisions and so it applies to all legal acts adopted by the executive branch. That is, the consignment note is definitely going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u219	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak, the National Deputy Zvaric is behind him and we are running out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u220	Dear Anatoly Pavlovich, it really seems to us that the Ministry of Justice is in the way of creating a mechanism to accuse the actions of power in court. And this isn't the first time, by the way, we have this impression. Perhaps there are some cassualistic points that you have pointed out and correctly related to the emergence of collegiates, but virtually not adopting this law will mean that our citizens, our physical and legal persons will be defenseless against the authorities. And this law is still a step in the direction of making it possible for our citizens to challenge the decision of power. Why does the Ministry of Justice so persistently oppose this trend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u221	Thank you for asking. And I want to say again that the Ministry of Justice, in principle, does not object to being accused of the decisions of the public authorities. But to do so requires a clear, legal cleanness. We cannot, for example, achieve some of the goals that lie ahead of us, but we cannot ignore legal rules. Notice what happens immediately, there will be two chapters that will, in principle, contradict each other. And the judge who's going to decide the case won't be able to clearly identify the subject by which he's going to handle the case. So it's going to happen, there's going to be a clear coalition of what to do, which head to apply. I think that if we really want to make the right decisions, we need to get very clear, and we need to get these rules out of the Civil Code and the Procedural Code. I want to say again that I'm not against this idea that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u222	National MP Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u223	Roman Zvaric, electoral district number 90, faction of our Ukraine. Please tell me, if the President's remarks are accepted, how does the President feel that the right of a legal person can be guaranteed, that a decision can be challenged, that is, the legal and legal acts of the public authorities on the basis of their legality. That's the first question. Now the second one. Doesn't it seem to you that the President has confused two concepts in his veto: the concept of constitutionality and the concept of legality? Of course, no one can challenge the right of exclusive exclusive exclusive right of the Constitutional Court to rule on the constitutionality of legal acts. But this very right cannot be extended solely to the Constitutional Court in relation to the question of their legality. The President does not really know the second paragraph of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that all social relations in the State are subject to the courts of general jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u224	Thank you for asking. Of course, I cannot now take the courage to say how the President would have seen the settlement of this issue, since this is usually the responsibility of Parliament first. But as for the fact that we have to develop constitutionality and legality, I completely agree. And in addition, the Constitution of Ukraine has clearly defined that a certain category of acts concerning them solves this question of constitutionality and thus it is clear that the question of how many acts and acts correspond to the law is also covered. So these questions, they can only be solved within the framework of constitutionality. And so I think that in this case there would be a clear need for an interpretation of the Constitutional Court in this matter. Can the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's acts be brought before separate courts of general jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u225	Thank you, Anatoly Pavlovich. Head of Legal Policy Committee Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u226	Dear National Deputies! Everyone heard the report from the Ministry of Justice. Now go back to the part of the first article 124 of the Constitution, where it is written that the delegation of functions of the courts and the addition of these functions by other authorities or officials are not permitted. And you'll find the right answer to these questions. “ My Life Is Good, ” 12 / 06 At his 2002 session, he considered the President's proposals for legislation and expressed the view that they should be considered inadmissible, since article 55 of the Constitution, without any restrictions, established the right of a person and a citizen to defend his rights and freedoms, guaranteed everyone the right to appeal before a court of law decisions, action or omission of public authorities, local self-government bodies, officials and officials. In the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of October 1, 1998, in the case of the Supreme Court of Arbitration of Ukraine, I quote: "It is set out in section 16 of the first article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine that the President has the power to revoke the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers does not affect the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals and, in particular, the Supreme Court of Arbitration of Ukraine. The constitutional mandate of the President of Ukraine to repeal the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the mandate of the Supreme Court of Arbitration of Ukraine to define such acts as invalid on the basis of legislation are the sole guarantees of legality in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which do not exclude each other. The powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine include the decision on the conformity of the Constitution and the constitutionality of the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not their legality. The said position of the Constitutional Court refers to the entire judicial system of Ukraine, the system of which is the household courts." Thus, the proposal made by the President of Ukraine on the illegality of bringing before the courts of general jurisdiction an assessment of the legality of the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is unacceptable from a legal point of view. The President points out that, according to article 55 of the Constitution, possible appeals to a court with a complaint about the action or omission of public authorities, the local self - government bodies of those officials refer solely to local self - government, exclusive rights, freedoms, duties of a citizen, and not to the unification of citizens, including political parties, are wrong. Chapter 13 "a" of the Civil Procedure Code confers the right to appeal to a court with an appropriate complaint of only natural persons. However, the implementation and protection of the constitutional right of a citizen to legal protection may be subject to the activities of a civil society organization, and this does not conflict with the Constitution or civil procedural legislation. [[unification]] The President of Ukraine points out that the provisions of article 27 of the law and article 1 of the Ukrainian Political Parties Act on the right of recourse to justice are inconsistent only with those of legal personality. According to article 102, section 2, of the Civil Procedure Code, public organizations exercising the rights of a legal person may be parties to the civil process. Thus, the provisions of article 248-27 of the law are consistent with the requirements of civil procedural law. The President’s conclusion that the legislative addition to article 12 of the Code of Master Procedure is not part of the content of the rule is unacceptable, since it is this position that makes an exception to the subjectivity of matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u227	I ask you to finish, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u228	I'm done. A general conclusion, distinguished national MPs. I thought you'd have a lot of fun opening up a new one. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the veto of the President of Ukraine should be overcome with regard to the law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with regard to the charges against the law enforcement authorities, local self-government bodies and their officials. And from that point on, this is a professional decision by the committee, a purely legal decision by a committee that has absolutely no political basis. I would ask you to support all the political forces to defeat the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? The committee proposes to decide how the President can overcome this law. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies would like to be determined by this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u230	The committee's asking for support. This is the protection of the rights of every citizen in the state of Ukraine. Catherine Timofievna, I ask you to support me, just as we have supported the grain law. [[13:59:22]] For-164
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u231	The factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u232	There was no vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u233	Since there has been a technical disagreement, I once again put to the vote a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine for this bill. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u234	The committee's asking for support. [[14:00:03]] For 202
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u235	The decision is not taken. The factions. There is a proposal to send this document back to the committee. For the reasons of the vote, please the People's Deputy. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u236	Sergey Glaucus, faction of the Tymoshenko bloc. Dear Jedi, you have a subfraction of the European Choice, so you should know that you and your President are leaving us in Asia. Because all of Europe has the right to appeal against decisions: both natural persons and legal persons. At the Strasbourg European Court of Justice, our legal persons are already turning, and you're sitting in Asia, you're sitting in Opi, not in Europe!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-04-m0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. At 15 hours of faction leaders, please gather to agree on the issues that we talked about in the room opposite.
