ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. [[10:03:22]] Registered -402 There were 402 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, on December 8, 2002, the National Artist of the Soviet Union, the National Artist of Ukraine Yuri Josephovich Bogatikov, came to life. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, December 10th around the world is marked by the Day of Human Rights. Let me say a few words to the chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. December 10 is a phased event and a date that does not apply to individual nations, one or more states, but concentrates on reflecting all the significance for humanity and for the long-term historical process. It was on that day 54 years ago that the United Nations General Assembly adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For our nation, the constant implementation of this instrument, and then the observance of universal human rights, is one of the main laws of life and the direction of development. We have to admit that this is not all we have done in this direction. And we are determined to follow this course in a consistent manner, demonstrating to the world our openness in plans, intentions and practical matters and our solidarity with all who remain faithful to the fundamental principles of democracy. Ukraine’s awareness of the higher priority and primacy of fundamental human rights for the development of society was reflected in its Constitution, which is based on the fundamental ideas of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for the purpose of building a legal, socially oriented state. The substantial constructive impact on national legislation, and then on the domestic and foreign policies of the State, has on its accession to relevant international treaties, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. In 1998, Parliament elected the first in the history of Ukraine to the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. Such an institution operates in more than 100 countries around the world and is an integral sign of democracy. We are obliged to take a thorough and demanding look at the practical experience already produced in this direction, determine the calculations and errors, and determine the facts of the violations of the legal provisions in which human rights are established. Sadly, this still takes place and requires unrelenting attention and effort to eliminate such phenomena from our lives and prevent them from repeating them. We need to build our future, realizing that the truth on earth is primarily based on respect for fundamental human rights, dignity and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Joofe Yulia Yakovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the departure of the People's Deputies, Majenek Vladimir Vladimirovich and Rimaruk Alexander Ivanovich, from the membership of the Ukrainian Deputies' faction "Our Ukraine" and their membership in the Ukrainian Deputies' faction. [[Applause]] On the exit of National Deputy Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich from the "Our Ukraine" faction and becoming a permanent parliamentary majority in the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly. [[Applause]] On the exit from the "Our Ukraine" People's Deputies of Ukraine, Nasalika and Bartkov. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the second session of the second Tuesday of the month at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held on the day of the government of Ukraine. To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 12 September 2002, the subject of our consideration on Government Day will be the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on the Government's activities in the development of a national recovery strategy and in support of its own production and development of highly competitive electronic technologies, the production of vehicles, aircraft and cars, etc., hardware and equipment, communication information systems, computer technologies, telecommunications, autonomous systems and radio navigation systems, terrestrial and space-based energy-saving technologies based on functional and powerful electrodynamics, etc., as the most important condition for the population's well-being and for Ukraine's status as a developed country. A spokesman for this issue was appointed by the Government as the minister of industrial policy in Ukraine. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship proposes that the Rules of Procedure be set up to give the rapporteur up to 20 minutes and up to one hour to answer the written and oral questions, to take up to 10 minutes to speak to the committee representative, to hold a debate for 20 minutes, to consider the matter within two hours. Is there any objection to that? National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u2	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose that we review this regulation. It may be possible to shorten the answers to questions, but it may be possible for representatives of each faction to come out of this painful question. Please consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u3	National Deputy Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u4	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is such an important question that is being considered today. I support Rudzkowski's proposal. But there's already a week or two of people who've signed up for the performance. That is to extend the performance, discuss it to 30 minutes as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please. Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was the initiator of the debate. As I recall, the committee showed me that they were making an offer to give me a word for the report within 10 minutes. Now I don't hear that proposal, so I'm asking because, really, we've been preparing this question, giving me the opportunity to speak for 10 minutes without limiting the discussion of this very important question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues. National MP Mishur, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u8	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, having nothing to do with the first question to be considered, I want to say that we have one more question, no less important: people are frozen by thousands, tens of thousands. That's why I have an offer like this. On the first question, let’s cut back on time and give more opportunity to speak on the second question, since it is about providing warm housing, education, health care, culture, and other social facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is where we exchanged our thoughts. Let's make that offer. We're not going to take a break at 12 o'clock. For two hours, we are discussing the matter. If anyone insists, then we'll make a deal. Then listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers, the more I had a conversation with the First Vice Prime Minister today, agreed, the ministers present here in the government will report to the chairman of the committee that has this question, and the ministers will be able to answer questions if they arise from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Is there no objection? Then we begin to consider the matter. I invite you to the rostrum to report to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine. Please, Anatoly Konstantinovich. If possible, the time for the report will be reduced by a matter of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the government, are present. It is very important to consider that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken concrete steps in cooperation with the first coalition government to address the issue of one of the key, most important factors in the development of the state - industry. The Government of Ukraine is developing a national strategy for the reconstruction and support of its own production and development of highly competitive technologies, based on the positions set by the President of Ukraine in its 2002 Communication to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "European Choice", the conceptual principles of Ukraine's economic and social development strategy for 2002-2011, which states that the basis for its strategic course is to be based on the implementation of a state policy aimed at the introduction of an innovative model for structural reconstruction and economic growth, the adoption of Ukraine as a high-tech state. The existing intellectual and scientific and technological potential provides a basis for this, and in conjunction with the tasks of European integration, such a goal could be based not only on economic strategy but also on the policies of national consolidation. The accelerated movement along a given path can be ensured with a wide range of complex and balanced applications of high scientific technologies, the achievement of such areas as electronics, adaptations, information, telecommunications, transport and energy, machine-building in all production areas of high-return each. This is what State industrial policy is all about. Taking into account the place and role of industrial policy in society, the government has defined and implemented the strategy of State industrial policy as a fundamental component of state reform policy. In the first stages of the establishment of an independent state, the transformation of industrial stability was a major component of the strategy in terms of a radical transformation in socio-economic relations. This ensured the creation of an integrated industrial complex of an independent state capable of functioning effectively in market conditions, the formation of a new owner, the resolution of internal industrial problems related to the conservation of scientific and manufacturing potential, and the halting of the decline in production. During this period, the Government of Ukraine, along with the Supreme Council, laid the foundation for basic industrial legislation. The implementation of such a strategy within the framework of created legislation has enabled the state to form a viable industrial complex, to preserve the major productive capacities, much of its scientific potential, to stop the decline in industrial production, to stabilize its volume. Unfortunately, stability has been achieved at a low level -- about 50 percent since 1991 -- that does not meet the needs of the socio-economic development of the state. Although measures have led to an increase in output in 2000, 111 percent in 2001 - 114, 106 percent in 10 months of the current year. However, the potential for a stable strategy is virtually exhausted. There was a need to move to a new stage of reform, which is based on an industrial development strategy. It is based on a new concept of State Industrial Policy adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on October 11, 2001. The concept defines the objective, ways and mechanisms of developing the Ukrainian industry by 2011. Ukraine’s industrial complex today is quite large. It includes 8.5,000 large and medium-sized enterprises and more than thirty small, over four hundred scientific and technical organizations. For a number of reasons, including those outside the industrial complex, his overall condition is unsatisfactory. About half the businesses are bankrupt, 13 percent of them have virtually stopped their business. The vast majority of products have a low level of innovation. Its materials and energy capacity are much more likely to be in front of foreign analogues. The productivity of work is five times lower than that of industrially developed countries. The permanence of the core funds has reached a critical limit, and in a number of cases it exceeds 60 to 80 percent. The pace of their upgrades has fallen to an unacceptable level. Small business isn't enough. Despite the considerable amount of privatization of industrial objects, the issues of both private and public property, including intellectual property, have not yet been fully resolved. Separate segments of the internal and external markets, industrial products, were lost. At the same time, the industrial complex is capable of delivering a large number of 50 known macrotechnologies, including. Small ones that refer to the 4th and 5th systems of technology. I would like to stress in particular that, with proper legal certainty, these sectors are able to develop dynamically. Following the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry, Airbuilding Industry and the Promotion of Automotive Production in Ukraine, we today have a significant advance growth in these industries. Yes, at an average rate of growth in machine manufacturing over the 10 months of the current year, 109.5 per cent in shipbuilding is 118.7 per cent, 113.5 per cent in aircraft construction - 116.8. During the operation of the Economic Experiment Act in the mining complex, the production growth rate in 2002 was 120.7 percent. The overall potential of Ukraine’s industrial development can be assessed as high. This is due to the fact that we have significant stocks of individual types of different raw materials. There's a developed fuel energy complex, there's a developed transport structure at a convenient geographical location, there's a pretty advanced manufacturing base and there's science and technology, there's a lot of highly skilled personnel. The market value of the investment industry and industry is about 50 percent. The quantity of the consumer. Ukraine's domestic market for industrial goods is much lower than its potential for improvement in population capacity. The main domestic problem with industrial development is its institutional inadequacy with the modern requirements of over-age domination. This problem is exacerbated by a significant financial deficit. It is essential that there is no comprehensive system of support for domestic production and the imperfection of the system of government and regional governance. This is happening when legislation is not sufficiently regulated, and there is now no comprehensive system of legislation regarding the introduction of a new industrial strategy. The problems noted are compounded by disagreements with the adjacent spheres and relationships with the world market. First of all, it's the inadequacy of capacity, ownership, investment and credit systems and its requirements, and the inadequacy of the payability of industrial consumers with industrial capabilities. The problems in the internal market are the most acute. The new industrial policy strategy envisions the use of modern, efficient market development mechanisms to address industrial and social problems in general. The basic characteristics of the development strategy are fundamentally different from the strategy of stabilization on an equal footing of purpose, its essence, its ways, methods, and instruments, the achievement of the goal, the operation of objects, and the interaction with adjacent spheres. Yes, the level of purpose-setting has increased from industry to society as a whole. Instead of stabilizing functioning, the industrial development of society, the state’s exit to advanced, technologically advanced countries, has become a major goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? You've all stressed the relevance of this issue. Please, keep it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u12	The main objective of the new development strategy proposed by the government is to create a modern, integrated industrial and technological complex in countries that provide internal needs, competitive exports, increase scientific output as a basis for innovation in other sectors of the economy. Long-term prospects, the system of industrial development priorities will change according to the stage of development and environmental change. However, the government has developed the main priorities of industrial policy that will remain unalterable for a long time, including: the innovative direction of transformations in the light of science, technology, the acceleration of the introduction of scientific and technological development; the development of scientific industries, primarily electronic, hardware, information and communication systems, transport and energy engineering with the implementation of these industries in other industrial complexes; the support and promotion of production oriented to the internal market of consumer goods; and the provision of industrial goods to industries of industries that directly address the needs of the population; the agro-industrial complex, food industry, services and so on; energy and resource conservation; the resolution of industrial developmental problems; and the development of industrial development; and industrial development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial and industrial industries; the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial industries; and the development of industrial infrastructure; and the development of industrial, however, as well as well. As a result of Ukraine's social economic development strategy, as stated in the President of Ukraine's letter to the Supreme Council, the industrial complex should provide an annual increase in GDP of at least 5-6 per cent, investment in capital -- 10-12 per cent, real income of business workers -- 6-7 per cent. The main mechanism for implementing the industrial development strategy on the innovation path requires concerted joint work of the legislative and executive branches of government aimed at creating new industrial structures, further restructuring and diversification of production, and innovation. One of the most important subjects of this work should be the regulatory system for the functioning and development of industry in interaction with adjacent spheres. The basic elements of this system are the national industrial development programme of the country and the industrial code of laws, a kind of industrial complex. These documents have yet to be developed, but some work has already been done. The National Program specifies ways and tasks to create conditions for accelerated industrial development in the whole and in particular sectors, identifies the measures of coordinating state-owned irrigation on transformation processes and foresees improvements in market self-organization mechanisms. These tasks are detailed by the system of industry programs and industry-friendly programs. Ukraine’s Industrial Code should provide for preventive legislative security, functional processes, industrial transformation as a whole and its basic components. The structure of the Industrial Code is defined and will be transferred for prior processing to the Supreme Council’s profile committee in the near future. Among the primary components of this code are draft laws on industry, on industrial development management, particularly in the last law, which should clearly regulate the effective market values of the state influence on industrial development processes and the mechanisms for their use. Including the creation of an active management system for regional industrial complexes. The adoption of Ukrainian laws on State support for the development of high technology in Ukraine, on the priorities of Ukraine's innovative activities up to 2006. There is also a need to improve legislation on the regulation of the macroeconomic environment, and the Tax Code requires the introduction of basic provisions on priority industries and the provision of funds to finance these sectors in 2004 and beyond. The new state industrial policy stems from the need to bring the institutional composition of industrial investment into line with the demands of post-industrial society, the establishment of an effective system for combining state influences and market self-organization processes. The transformation of the institutional composition of the industry takes into account that science, large-scale innovation is the basis for ensuring competitive industrial production and increasing production volumes. This requires, firstly, the creation of a new type of integrated scientific and industrial science for the industry, secondly, the integration of scientific and financial potentials, new innovation structures such as technology parks, technopolises, industrial finance groups, transnational companies, etc. In particular, I believe there is an improvement in the scientific supply system, which in industry goes from an auxiliary category to a core category. Scientific and information products from year to year make up more than a fraction of the gross domestic product. In this regard, effective State industrial policy cannot be formed and implemented without adequate scientific support. The government has started work on the creation of a comprehensive system of industrial science, primarily for the purpose of building a forward-looking approach to development, for the formation of state industrial policy, for the promotion of governance decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u13	Anatoly Costinovich, one minute! Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't want to hear this question, let's call it off. I'm asking you to stop the meetings in the session room. Stop the grouping. Let's work! Look, we're being watched by journalists, the country is watching. Well, it's practically impossible to work. Please, I'm begging you, I'm begging you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u14	During the 2002-2003 period, there are plans to carry out a structure of scientific security and compliance with new tasks. To this end, it is proposed to create a national scientific centre for industry and the network of state scientific centres for intersectoral, sectoral and regional orientation. They will be tasked with integrating industry, academic, university science into priority tasks. It's for me. The industrial mortification of scientific developments creates a system of accelerated innovation aimed at. What will be the centre of the transfer of high technology, which will be based on a network that is divided not only by traditional scientific institutions, but also by new innovation structures. The activity of the domestic industrial complex and the experience of the industrialised countries show that without significant coordinating influence by the State, accelerated development is impossible. This requires a substantial deepening of the administrative reform of industrial governance towards increasing functional orientation, the gradual transfer of economic and manufacturing functions to corporate levels, companies, holding companies, effective mechanisms for coordinating the actions of central and regional industrial authorities, strengthening market mechanisms, and self-organizing. That's the kind of work that's going on right now. In the absence of time, I deliberately gave up the task of developing individual industries and industries, but we have a clear analysis of the state of affairs, programs and measures for the further reform and structural reconstruction of almost all industrial complexes. Honourable national MPs, combined with the efforts of all branches of government, have the key to implementing the strategic objectives of industrial development on an innovative path, increasing population well-being and achieving Ukraine's status as a developed country. The government is capable of passing its share of the road. I'm counting on your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Let us turn to questions and answers. Please sign up for the question. We'll queue, if you don't mind, one written question-the answer and one of the national MPs directly. On the board, please. Please, People's Deputy Demyohin, People's Rule Group, then it will be written.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u16	Dear Anatoly Konstantinović, would you say that in terminology, in the example of the draft State budget next year, you could show how the State strategy for the revival and support of Ukraine's scientific production will be implemented next year, what specific proposals were made by the Government in the draft budget? And tell me, what will be the location of this strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear People's Deputies, you know that the 2003 budget has already been adopted on second reading. And today we're going to finish it. I think that all the main provisions set out there have been carefully studied on the relevant committees, on the committee in question, and the amendments and additions have been made accordingly. Naturally, we would like to see more budget funding for those areas that are of a scientific nature, R & D, but given the budget deficit and the one that is being adopted, we have what we have. It should be noted that, given that there is a law in favour of construction, this industry is being developed to date, although in all the enterprises we have in Herson, Nikolayev, Crimea, there are problems that are precisely related to the fact that our enterprises have been largely working to defend the Soviet Union, and today there is and continues to be conversion. But part of the work is done, and you can see that there is a growth rate in enterprises. I think that the issue of dealing with the problems of the Black Sea plant has come to light, there are 61 communes related to the plant where it is located, and so far no decision has been taken on the Ukrainian cruiser and other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u18	Letters, please, questions. Do you have it there?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u19	Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. During the time of market reforms, the production of scientific enterprises has been virtually destroyed: Electronics, Slavotic, Communist, Communist, Electronic TV, and ten or more times the output has been reduced by such industries as engineering, tractors, construction, electricity, etc. [[The City of Kiev]] [[City of Kharkiv]] [[city of Lviv]] Millions of Ukrainian citizens found themselves on the street. They suffer from unemployment and wander abroad. Who has personally been responsible or responsible for these activities? What specific measures are being taken by the government to increase the drinking weight of high - tech products in the general range of industrial products? Part of the questions raised in this question was answered in my report, which contained an industrial development strategy for 2003-2011. It should be noted that all the enterprises concerned were a single complex that worked for a huge Power, the Soviet Union. Today, and these were shown in the graph, we have this industry that hasn't fully formed yet, and you see, there are white spots. But it should be noted that the Government has taken appropriate measures, together with the Supreme Council for Scientific Support, in support of the aircraft and so on. I've been counting. If you're taking a specific Communior factory. Today, the Communar plant is working in close association on all our space programmes, and this programme has recently been approved by the Supreme Council, and has reported in detail on what projects we have and the role of individual enterprises. As far as Communara is concerned. Today, this enterprise is functioning in a stable manner. Naturally, the number of employees has decreased, but scientific developments at the level and I, as an aircraft specialist, can respond that those instruments that are now installed and manufactured by the Communar from scratch, i.e. design, construction, testing in the treatment systems, other systems are of high scientific and technical importance. And it should be noted that here, literally yesterday, our AN-140s and AN-174s were in Russia, where the 32-degree frosts, and today they're flying to Yakutsk, where they're over 50 degrees, they've shown their competitiveness and they're holding up. They do the same in all directions. Of course, you know that a defence development programme has been prepared. This programme has been prepared by a professional committee, it has been reviewed by both the Government and the Supreme Council, and I believe that these measures, taking into account the needs of our Ukraine and the work on exports, will allow for the preservation of the scientific potential of production data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u20	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u21	I'd like a word with Valeria Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u22	National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u23	Thank you. Anatoly Costinovich, I've heard so much, you've read with great power what you've written. But, unfortunately, I didn't hear it. I'm right here, right next to you, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u24	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u25	I did not hear exactly the question of industrial politics. So I'm going to try to ask you some of these problems that are today, questions. The first is the tax system. How the tax system policy will be conducted. For example, the Ministry of Finance today believes that there is some way to limit depreciation deductions in order to increase the income tax base. And economists say you have to do the opposite to make it faster to resupply. You didn't say anything at all. You said you're an aircraft builder, you're an aircraft builder, but there's absolutely no aircraft construction program in this budget, although in previous budgets they've been like shipbuilding programs, there's nothing. You talked about investment projects, so let me tell you, let's say we have a know-how today, like in the electronic industry -- an image computer. There's nothing in the budget, there was no funding for that in 2002.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u26	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u27	We have a know-how like the demethaneization of mines in Ukraine, and you know what the problems are. There's no money in the budget. I'd like you to be a little more specific and land-based about industrial policy in Ukraine. Because you've written some text there, you've read it, believe me, it's a little bit like old, old times. Let us live in new economic conditions. If you don't mind, on the matter of what I asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Thank you for doing this report myself, but today I read it in my own language and I think I am going in and that is why it was, of course, difficult for me to pass on. If you don't understand, I want to focus on the main points that are today, and we've been putting them on posters. We need to change the entire industrial management system. We have many problems and you have highlighted them in particular in your question. We therefore believe that, to date, little has indeed been allocated to the maintenance of science-intensive technologies for industrial development. And today, in the Ministry of Industrial Policy, we have conducted an evaluation in all our research institutions. We have identified the scientific potential that exists, but in 11 years we have not supported it and have therefore lost much. We lose many of our specialists going abroad today. I was recently on a work trip with President Leonid Danilović Kuchma of Ukraine to India and China. We see our specialists working there and what they do. Therefore, in my report, I said that we need to find the necessary resources today, based on the 2003 budget, to set up all the necessary warehouses in 2004 that would allow us to support our science and technology budget next year, and to carry out all the institutional activities that would allow it to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u29	Letters. I'll read it to you to speed up your time, Anatoly Constantine. "An answer to questions about the inclusion in existing technology parks of enterprises that do not produce scientific products and receive substantial tax benefits, namely the inclusion in the technology park of the Institute of Technical Thermophysics of the TPC "Agglomat" - the importer of ceramics and santechnics, as well as the inclusion in the technology park "Ukrifotek" VAT "Ukretelekom" and ATZT "Inter-compact" transport services." This is a question from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u30	Thank you. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law, specific innovation projects do not benefit businesses. So those enterprises that don't develop scientific products, they don't get them. Even if they work in this warehouse. The company’s composition is approved by a government commission, to which are the directors of the relevant ministries and departments. That's why it's all done right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u31	National MP Andrey Schlell, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u32	Dear reporter, well, of course, it's very good that you're trying to speak in your native language, in Ukrainian, but I'd like you to try with the same zeal to stand up for Ukrainian construction -- aircraft building, Ukrainian automobile building and Ukrainian shipbuilding. Because, look, we have the Ukrainian Car Program, but we don't have a car. We have airplanes, but our carriers are buying foreign planes and not using Ukrainian planes. We have shipbuilding, not the Black Sea fleet. So we don't have ships. We're building ships on export. When is Ukrainian science finally going to work for the Ukrainian industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u33	Thank you. That's a very good question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u34	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u35	That's a very good question. I thank you for him. And I want to answer that today the aircraft you've been talking about is being developed and decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u36	Anatoly Konstantinovich, author of the question to the left. This is the author of the question raised his hand, see? He's the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u37	Today the aircraft is developing, as I said, at a good pace. An Antonov-140 aircraft was established at the Kharkiv Aviation Factory for the years of independence of Ukraine. Its design began in the year 96. And you know, he's got a certificate of airworthiness. And today we issue these aircraft in a series of collaborations with the Ministry of Transport. Today we have a leasing company that acquires these aircraft and we express them to Ukrainian airlines. To date, Odessa Airlines has acquired a leased aircraft and has now acquired two aircraft from the Kharkiv Aviation Company. And we also plan for these planes to appear in other airlines -- Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk and other regional centres. It should be noted that this aircraft has a very good export warehouse, and we hope that the latest exhibitions in the Russian Federation - in Krasnoyarsk, Yakutsk - will allow us to export aircraft not only to the Russian Federation but also to others. It should be noted that this aircraft is also being issued in Iran. It should be noted that it is not only the aircraft that develops. Thanks to the efforts made by the Ministry of Transport, today's planned programmes are being implemented, a programme is being implemented to create refrigerant courts and other courts that buy our companies. It should be noted that work on all modes of transport has been very serious today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u38	I'm going to read a written question from the MP's People's Authority group: "What measures are being taken by the government to change the proportion that has happened in Ukraine with investment in different technical levels and, accordingly, to increase investment in scientific production?"
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u39	Thank you. I tried to answer such a question in my report and have already replied that the state of investment and the financing of science-intensive technologies for today wanted better. Therefore, the Government has created a number of laws today, has proposed a number of laws for adoption, and they have been approved. It's the Science and Technology Act, the Innovation Act. These laws describe the provisions that we need to implement with you and extend to all industries and to science-intensive technologies. We therefore hope today that those laws that have not yet been passed in the Supreme Council will be adopted. And we will ultimately, starting this year, have comprehensive support for science-intensive technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u40	Please ask Olga Hinzburg, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u41	Dear Anatoly Konstantinovich. Ginsburg, 161st constituency. As an MP working in the district, this issue, which is being considered today, is of particular concern to me as a social issue. Because support from a domestic producer is primarily the social protection of its citizens, namely jobs and, of course, wages. In this context, I ask you two questions. First. Why is this attitude of the Industrial Policy Committee or the Ministry of Industrial Policy today, for example, there are private enterprises and public enterprises in my town? Public enterprises are a railway today, and they provide jobs and sufficient wages today. And if I have a question to answer, I know who to go to. I'm approaching the minister today, he says, "Tomorrow we'll solve this, Olga Petrovna." If I have a private business, for example. The factories are being abandoned for privatization. No wages, no jobs. I approached you, in particular, at the Space plant, to remove the problem. For the Director, we decided on this issue - and immediately included a privatization plant in the 2003 budget. What kind of interest? Next budget. Support of the national manufacturer. Land taxes were removed from enterprises such as Zirka, Šustinski, there, the military industrial plant and the research institute. It's kind of like a backup. A representative of the World Bank appears and checks the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u42	Olga Petrovna, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u43	I'm sorry. Checks the budget and says we need to take off the benefits. And today, we include these land taxes in the 2003 budget for those factories that carry out the government's orders. What are they going to pay for? And how does this fit into the context of the program you're talking about today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u44	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. You and I have also spoken on a committee of profile. And the issues that you have addressed are very important today, and they need to be addressed. We are today, and the Government is tasked with resolving all issues related to governance in the public sector and in the private sector. This is one of the main problems today. It should be noted that, in my view, privatization, which had been made, had been incomprehensible, had broken out of the business. And today, we need to bring in everything, the legislative framework, we need to bring out the problems that are in line and solve them. I studied very carefully the construction of the city of Konotope, which we discussed with you, with regard to the city of Six. This is a very complex issue, where there are defence industries, enterprises. are in a very difficult situation. And it should be noted that we sent the commission there, worked by the CIA in this direction, we had to study the matter carefully. It should be noted that for many years, the management of the enterprise has not dealt with, as the manager of the enterprise concerned with the management of the enterprise, the growth of industrial production. And as a result, we've come to what you're talking about. That is why the Director was removed from his post. Today, we are taking a number of measures and are about to meet with the new governor and we will go to Šostka to consider all issues relating to this city. I am concerned about the issues of the region of Šestin because they are mainly urban enterprises. And that's a serious question, it's not just about the town of Shastka. Today we have encountered this, and with Maceevka in the metal combination, we face it all along in Donetsk, Lugansk and other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u45	Anatoly Kostinovich, the question is written by the parliamentary group "Democratic Initiatives". I'll read it to you. What concrete steps have been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Act on Innovative Activities adopted in July this year? In particular, what has been done to implement the provisions that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is creating specialized state-owned financial and credit institutions to fund support for innovation programmes and projects, preparing and submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the National Budget Law for Ukraine for the year in question, proposals for budgetary resources to support the implementation of innovative projects through specialised state-owned financial and credit institutions? And what is being done to create the Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? And is it still planned to create such a bank? What is the further fate of the Ukrainian State Innovation Company, formed on 13.04? In 2000, what will be its role in the announced transition to an innovative development model? This is a big question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u46	Thank you. One of the main issues this year was the issue of an innovative company in question and the task of this company was to stimulate the development of high technologies. But with regard to its creation, I think there are minor shortcomings, and therefore we believe that we need, and I have already mentioned it in the report, to establish a centre for science-intensive technologies. This is the place and role of this company in enabling it to finance science-intensive projects. And we must approve the expertise and projects at the highest level. That's what's going on. To date, we have described all the legal, economic, institutional issues of government regulation and the promotion of innovation, given that the Innovation Act was adopted in July 2002. Therefore, within the framework of this law, we need to work within these provisions. The same sets out questions and amounts of special accounts tax and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u47	Oleg Bespalov, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u48	Dear Anatoly Konstantinovich, this is the question. GDP is dwarf, the budget does not have anything practical, and this has been said to you. Motivation for.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u49	Please turn on the Microphone of the Bespalogo People's Deputy. Where else did he ask the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u50	I didn't hear any motivations for private capital in your report either. That's why I have a question. Where are you going to take the money for this program? She's good, she's the right program. Indeed, Ukraine has the only way out of the deadlock today. From an economic deadlock, that's the development of the industries you've been talking about. But I didn't hear where the government was going to take the money. If you're going to make airplanes out of a solid bracelet, ships build out of it, that's not the way to go, that's absolutely right, that's a dead end. It's all been tried. So that's why they don't listen to you -- they didn't listen to the report -- just because there's no answer to where to get the money. That's the main question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u51	Thank you. That's a good question. I believe that the answer to this question lies in the changes that are taking place in our political life today, and I hope that the political issues will be reflected in economic issues. We really can't find any money out of the air. That's why money has to be made. We have a number of countries that work and were at the same level as our Ukraine in 1991. Therefore, we need to take examples, make similar instruments, and make every effort to solve the economic problem. I have already noted that we must develop today, and the Government has begun to do so, namely, those activities in which the budget would be charged. And it is very good to see that our special budget committee of the Supreme Council, together with the Government, finds such a consensus for 2003. But I have already noted that 2003 should be exactly the starting point that will be done to us from the beginning of 2004 with the programmes and projects that will bring money. And such proposals, I think, will and will lead them to the Supreme Council. We will also make all these decisions with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u52	I'll read the questions from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Ukraine’s industrial capacity has equipment that is more than 60 percent physically worn - down and morally outdated. What is the Government of Ukraine doing to restore the active part of the production funds?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u53	Thank you. The question is very serious. It should be noted that Ukraine's machinery today has great and serious capabilities. Industry potential of some 365 industrial enterprises and 57 research institutes. It should be noted that so far there are enterprises and tunnels, escalators at the Bolshevik factory, have been established for Yasinovat Engineering. There is much work to be done, but there is indeed a financial situation that we cannot do the modernization and reconstruction of existing productions. [[city of Kiev]] It should be noted that much has been done in this regard by the High Council for the Refurbishment of the Steel Industry. And we've recently done work at the NNMZ, where we see that the NNMZ plant is able to restructure and rebuild the heavy industry. Therefore, so far, there are programmes, we have them approved and dealt with by the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u54	Yes, the People's Deputy of Veretennikov, the faction of the parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the "Urgent Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Minister! Victor Weretennikov, town of Dnipropetrovsk. I've got a lot of big businesses around here, giants like the South German, the Dniprov machine factory and a lot of others, almost two-thirds of all the big industrial enterprises in Dnipropetrovsk. And in these businesses, very large professionals, very with great intelligence, many of them are now forced to go to the flea market to support their family. What are the plans in the ministry, in Kabmin to support these enterprises or some government program, or perhaps there are other ways of supporting such a reduction in tax pressure? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u56	Thank you. You have heard of it, and on the Supreme Council, you have enacted relevant laws to support the particular industries that you listed. Both the Southern Engineering Plant and the Dneprov plant were the main factories that held the Soviet Union's shield, and so far there are major difficulties, but most importantly the scientific and technological potential is preserved. The space programme was recently protected on the Supreme Council. And it was adopted. That is why I think that the programme lays the foundations for the scientific minds and foundations of the enterprises that you mentioned. Therefore, our task is to enact the laws that I have referred to above, and we must clearly address the issue of the defence order of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, understand the place and role of these enterprises, and also work in the areas, export routes and programmes that have been approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u57	I'll read the questions from the Science and Education Committee. "The Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology Development defines organizational and financial principles for the implementation of science and technology priorities. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a list of state science and technology programmes as early as 2000. At the same time, these programs have not yet been developed. What concrete steps does the government plan to take in the near future to remedy this situation?"
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u58	Thank you. This question has been and is being addressed by our Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u59	It's probably a question to another ministry then, isn't it? To the other department, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u60	It's to another ministry. We'll send it in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u61	Okay. National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u62	Minister, it seems to me that the Ministry of Industrial Policy exists, and we don't have industrial politics. You're a fresh minister. But you haven't expressed any fresh thoughts. We've been expecting fresh proposals from you, radical, promising, efficient, at least that's an impression. I want to give you an opportunity to make it better. In this regard, two questions. First question: What are the objectives of the Ministry of Industrial Policy regarding measures to increase the competitiveness of its producers? Because self-producer support is primarily about increasing its competitiveness, all the more so that Ukraine is going to join the WTO. The second question, it sounded to some extent, but you didn't answer: the main task of the current moment in Ukraine in economic policy and industrial policy, in particular, is to move to an innovative type of economic growth. What are the Ministry's intentions in order to ensure that, in the short term, the next move to innovative investment is made? Ukraine now ranks 133rd in the world by investment rating, and Estonia, where the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recently took 14th place in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u63	The question is understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u64	And because of what measures will be taken to improve the investment climate, there will be a build-up of capital within Ukraine and investment from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u65	Thank you. This is one of the main areas on which the Ministry is working today, and I have already stopped in my report on this subject. I want to say that the competitiveness of the products we have does not match the level. And if we join the World Trade Organization, there will be very big problems, and we can lose our businesses, and that is a very serious issue. A number of measures are therefore being taken to protect the market. And you know what the Government is working today to protect our market, especially the Ministry of Economics. We must, and I have already noted in the report, for the period from 2003 to 2004, choose the areas that we can soon create in order to jump to the next level of our development, based on existing technologies. For example, a machine building. Today we have machines and mechanisms that do not fit in quality, environmentalally, we do not have the engines. There are therefore motor programs, problems and programs for the creation of cars, a number of cars, starting with light, one and a half cubes, two and so on. So we need to create a whole range of trucks, we need to support the bus. And today, you know, in a few enterprises besides Lviv, competitive cars are already being produced, and they are working in the city of Kiev today. That's why we have all the opportunities, all the programs. If you are building a building, you should note that there are no parallels in the world to such machines that are produced at the Kramatar Machine Plant. We're holding positions today. It should be noted that we have seriously missed issues related to coal-layering complexes. And if the German firms we had three years ago offered us their services, this year, when they came to the exhibition, we saw that we had very serious work and showed. That's why we have potential, we have programs. Today, we only need one thing: the joint work of the Government and the Supreme Council -- to create this very network of laws, the legal and regulatory framework, so that we can ultimately do what I said in the report: create a scientific centre of industry that collects these technologies, gives them a road to life, and we must further establish mechanisms for maintenance not only through budgetary funding, but also through the banking system and other methods that are in the world today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u66	National Deputy Homutinnik, please, faction of "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u67	Vitaly Homutinnik, “Regions of Ukraine”, 53 constituency. Georgi Konstantinović, I have a few questions. First on Innovation. The only company in the State that does innovation is a state-owned innovation company. The company's inheritance received 600 million debts from Gosinofond, half of which were already considered unrealistic, and out of 807 contracts, 758 were overdue. I have a question: what, you see in the future, will be the State's policy towards this company, besides the burden that has been passed on to the non-fund? Second question. Is the establishment of the Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development real next year, as the President's annual message to the Supreme Council notes this, is it true in 2003? And question three. How fast is the construction of an aluminium foil factory in Zaporozhye, and is it even going? Thank you. Aluminum foil, the town of Zaporozhye, is a state guarantee building, an Italian loan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u68	Thank you. The issue of an innovative company has already been raised in today's consideration, and I have already replied that the issue of this company was addressed at a special meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers in the third quarter of this year. Naturally, the company was in a very difficult situation, and you sounded that moment. Therefore, the issues of its improvement, its constitution, are being addressed today, and proposals are being drawn up to improve its work. But the place and the role of this company, I think, should adjust the time for today, given the requirements that we have developed, I have reflected in the report, because there is no other way, such as the innovative, investment development of our technology and technology. We must create technologies, fund them with precision and thus have the effect that the economy is looking forward to. I think the documents I'm talking about will come out soon, and we'll start working. With regard to the construction of an aluminium foil factory. I was in the city of Zaporozhye recently, and we visited an aluminum combination. These are very serious issues, but they deserve more consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u69	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u70	Bank of Reconstruction. Of course, it has to be created. This is one of the banks that will allow our science technology-related economy to move forward. I am in agreement with you that it should be created next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u71	I've declared National Deputy Yuri Lucenka, and the time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u72	Dear reporter! Still, we realized that you're the Bank of Reconstruction and Development. But please tell me, which asset is it actually going to be formed from, and when? Three years ago, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers promised this case? Second question. The Cabinet of Ministers will eventually deal with the free operation of special economic zones and technoparks in Ukraine, the first of which will take the lead, the second of which will be released, in one of the technoparks, into toilets. And to do that, it turns out that we had to make economic priorities? And the third question. When will the search for scientific institutions end, and when will the Cabinet of Ministers protect them by helping this special commission lead by Socialist Valentina Seminyuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u73	Thank you. Naturally, all the issues that you have reflected, which are now under the Government's consideration, are being addressed by a number of measures and issues and projects that have been approved by tech parks in order to understand how they work today and we hope that this work will be carried out in the 1st quarter of the next year and that we will put everything in place. Naturally, research-related issues deserve the greatest attention to date. As I said in the report, the Ministry of Industrial Policy carried out an evaluation of all research institutions and others. The stage where the research sector had to survive, we believe, has passed. There is work to be done in all research institutions, we must finance it, and I think this issue will disappear on its own. We're going to need five. I'm sure of it. Since the end of 2003 and 2004, the number of specialists, engineering workers, who will work for Ukraine's economy and create the necessary product that our Power needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u74	Yeah, time's up, too bad. National MP Gurov, please. Then there's the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u75	Dear Anatoly Konstantinovich, well, first of all, I'd like to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister. This time. Second, with the first statement from the highest rostrum of Ukraine, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. And now I want to make the next comment. Here I have worked very carefully, not to mention reading, but to work on the materials presented by the Cabinet of Ministers by this day and by the Supreme Council. And you know, I got really sad. The planes are flying, the missiles. cars, cars, cars. By the way, we don't have a car ticket. Only I don't see one of the main ones - there's no steel industry here. I don't understand. Or those who have formed do not know what high technologies are or have simply automatically lost 27 per cent of GDP, 45 per cent of the currency, and believe that these are not high technologies. I would therefore very much like the Minister of Industrial Policy to answer whether he really believes that the issue of the metallurgical complex does not concern today's agenda. That's first of all, look, you have two secretaries of state, and there's no metalworks.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u76	Questions, please make them clear. Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u77	So please answer my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u78	Thank you. Indeed, I would not like to have the impression that only aerospace, electronic and static industries are those that are science-intensive. Without technical re-arrangement of such an important industry as metallurgical, of course we will not have a future. It should be noted that there is now a draft national programme for the development and reform of the mining complex, and the programme is being considered in the relevant committees. It should be noted that there is a great deal of work in our ministry on the application of new technologies in the mining complex. It should be noted that in Dneprodžinsk the problem of continuous spillage has been addressed by a professional committee with interested ministries and agencies. At the Anakyev Steel Plant, the NMZ plant is now built with kiln-kilsch and a system of continuous casting of the variety protease will be established shortly at the same plant. It should be noted that the Donetsk metal combination now uses technology, a new dusting technology. We know that in metallurgy there is a very serious problem of coke and raw materials, and I hope that dusting will create the necessary prerequisites for saving the raw materials used in the steel complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u79	Thank you, Anatoly Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u80	It's worth mentioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u81	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u82	It should be noted that work is being done in other areas, but in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u83	Please have a seat. Replica by Igor Raphaelovich Yuhnowski Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u84	No, no, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u85	Igor Raphaelovich, you asked for a line, not for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u86	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a few words about the questions you've been asked. You can remember all the questions and the painful or effective response to them, but I wanted to look at the questions that affected the technology parks. Technology parks do not have any financial security from the state, so they should now look for certain means of income on their own, on the basis of which they can develop their activities. I especially want to protect the boiler building technology, or the Institute of Heat Physics, and so that you don't have a bad attitude about it. And then I want to say that you have to listen very much to what Deputy Gurov said. The most important thing for the state is the quality of the metal that we have to release. If there is no quality and variety in our varieties of various metals, we will not have any machinery. And so I'm asking you to pay attention to metallurgy, because without metallurgy there will be no agriculture, there will be no machine-building. Well, if I wanted to ask you, pay attention to the English language.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Please sit down. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's go to the reports. I invite you to a report from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, the head of the subcommittee on machine-building, GDP and conversion, and the light industry of Vitaly Ivanovich Mike. In 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u88	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand how you feel now, and what a shame before the government, in front of those business leaders who have come to the Supreme Council today, for the first time, when they hear that there will be such an important issue and they see that there are 5 percent of the deputies and they are not listening. Moreover, those who were to be here and stand up for the matter that we are considering today. I'd like to say, there are no unions that want us to pay twice the average wage. But when the money is made, the hall will be full, and they will all be divided. That's why we don't have any success. Because there's someone to share, and there's nobody in the country to work with. That's the main reason! The second question I'd like to ask you. We have raised this question today just because there is no other way in Ukraine to solve the issue of introducing new technologies. We've been asking this question for years, but today it's the first time it's been here. I want to give you an example. When we were these days in China, we were just talking about this metallurgical complex of GHS that we passed laws about, and what are the possibilities, I already have today telegrams asking me to introduce technology in China this. We spent eight years with ourselves, including the one who was speaking now, Gurve, to introduce, to ask very carefully to do so. You're asking, where do we get the money for those jobs that we have to do? Let's see, where does all our money go, and what country is the world's tallest investment in strangers? This is our country. Let's see. TVs were released - 4 million. What are we missing today? One hundred thousand. That year, 700 grand was delivered. The kinescopes, they've released 100,000. TV. De 600 grand. TVs that aren't released? Where is the entrepreneur who spent his money on the wind? So it's all going somewhere and it's going sideways. We're talking about equipment, group A. We came to the point that the volume of the equipment had been released while 70 percent had already been spent, and our service deadline was over. We've reached the level of the '40s to '50s. So I took this example: how many electric motors are releasing Ukraine, because the electric motors are showing all of this -- this is all of the mechanics, this is all of the equipment? Less so in the '50s. Are we talking about where to get the money? Here's your money. First of all, you have to save your market. And every country, every nation, is looking for ways to preserve this market. We gave him to you. They gave him up, and you don't have to say someone took him. They gave those who sit here, sitting in government, and above, and below. That's the main reason. If we didn't give it up, today the standard of living would not be $830 gross per man. Poland, Romania - $1,700 per man. We have $830. Now, they say about the money, the minister is asked where to get it for the banks. Do you know how much money is in banks today and we don't get credit? In addition, the production of the necessary products in Ukraine will never be resolved until the financial institutions, the banking financial system, both for industry and for the state, are operational. No money, no money, no money, no money, no money. Only then will it work, the money will be enough then. And one more thing: No one comes to us as a stranger until we learn to use our personal money. I was a Witness in Switzerland when I arrived, and by the time Yeltsina arrived in Switzerland. He asked for $50 million in assistance from Russia. Swiss newspapers reported that on that day seven billion Russian dollars were in the Swiss banks. We need to look at maybe a little bit less or a little bit more, but there are some examples. I'd like to emphasize one more direction: innovation, new technology, as we have it in the country. You take the telephone stations, C-32. How many years it took for this station to work, daytime propellers! She's only started working in recent years. Take the drug to the breathing aids that stand at the exhibition today. Five times cheaper abroad and meet all the requirements of the foreign. How many years it took to prove to the country that the country should receive its produce first! If we don't all understand together that first of all, we need to apply what is being produced in our country, nothing, nothing will make sense. Today, rail transport has begun to use the products of our industry. You see how they pick up factories, electronics and power plants, power plants! And goods that can be competitive not only with us but also with us abroad. So you have to look, first of all, for everything that's going on inside of you, and then look for who's going to help. These are the main points. Here's the question that the government, our ministry doesn't solve all the issues. I mean, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're already in charge of the government. And the time has come when the minister is not a boy to beat, but a minister is a man who has an influence on the finance that gives to the ministry, and he has some kind of finance, he has to be able to manage it. Because who's the minister who doesn't have a chance to help, to put some money into work?Oh, my God! But you went to a good school, you had a lot of experience in life to know about it. And today, in charge of the government, we need and allow the government to work, to be able to work in these conditions. I'd like to say some more things. Not just the government, not just us, but all the ministries: and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine -- should appreciate how it helps our Ukraine. You see what's going on in China's trade mission today. China - 1 billion 300 people - 2 men on a trade mission for 1 billion 300 people! There are hundreds of people who need to be planted, and these people will justify their assignment. There are two men, Russia has a hundred times more people there. And we want to do something. And what everyone needs to understand is what Ukraine needs. One of the entrepreneurs from Austria told me, asked me not to say his name, and I will say so. He said for two years he'd been preparing a meeting at your department, in a sales rep, bringing a whole bunch of entrepreneurs. Instead of showing the level of Ukraine and what it can say, two-thirds of the exhibitions are Chernobyl and one-third what Ukraine is. That's how we're used to asking for this Chernobyl, which we've forgotten is that we have to make money first. I'd like to say that today we're not just going to listen to the government, we're going to listen to ourselves first. And the way we listen to them, what we're going to do is, most of the time, what we're going to do depends on the consequences of the job, rather than what we're going to expect to be helped. The committee, together with the government, looked at the program, supported it. It can do in a lot of questions in general terms, but it gives ways to raise the economy and find a way out of that position. But to do that, once again, I stress that we need to work together in Parliament and in the government. And maybe the arrangements signed today by the head of parliament, the head of government, the president will have some good results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u89	Thank you, too, Vitaly Ivanovich. Thank you. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski with a joint report. In 10 minutes, please. It's better to shrink.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u90	Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I am the initiator of this issue, and you will now understand its special importance. And you're going to see even the mistakes that our scientists and even Black people make, because the main culprit of the state that we are today is not the Ministry of Industrial Policy, but the other branches of government that I'm going to talk about specifically about, who's to blame. The thing is, I always bring people's thoughts here to the rostrum. I want to pay attention. Look, the World Bank book, the quality of economic growth. In this book, all the last places in poverty, all the worst that are, belong to Ukraine. And I say, "Why?" On the other hand, you heard it today. The best achievements in the world are these technologies are Ukrainian technologies. Why are we so poor? Because world statistics show that a country that exports intelligence and raw materials that doesn't develop high technology has to pay twenty-seven times less than developed, and we have that today. Now the question is, how do we get out of this situation before we lose? Europe has recognized -- the best experts in high technology and programming prepares Ukraine. What is the reason? And I just want to figure it out. Now, see why. Here, at the request of the Russian Duma, Russian scientists wrote a book called "The Fall of the World Dollar System." Let's think about it. By the way, I've already advertised my book "The Strategy for the Development of Society." Ukraine and the world." But they don't read anything either. It is in Ukraine that the book Globalization and Development Security, edited by Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, is written. I am opening this book on the role of the World Trade Organization. So here's a table that's going to win from the World Trade Organization? Here's the chart. And you can see, at fifty, a hundred times as far as the underdeveloped ones are concerned, and we today will win over the developed countries. And we're not going to be able to stand a chance if we get into the U.S.A. right now and we don't support high-tech technology. Because the World Trade Organization freezes the state of technology and development that it is. Now let's see why. Now I'm going to show you, I've got a whole bunch. I'm opening a letter from Director General Saturn. And he says to the government, "Help me. I want to export scientific products." And who's in his way? Tax, customs, everyone's in his way, and no one's helping him. And here in this book of the World Bank, it turns out that the government, for example, the US and its businessmen inside might be fighting, and on the outside it's one team, and not the way we have it, they're destroying all of them. It was Kinach Dubini's job to figure it out. There's nothing. So I'm going to ask the new government to figure out and help out this low-tech technology. I brought it in my pocket for the press. [[I'm talking to journalists.]] He's a digital tape recorder that doesn't have analogs in the world. All voice commands. Why are you buying everything abroad today? I'm not going to count others, but look, today they're talking about an innovative company. Here's the Donetsk CD. It has developed overcrowding materials that have no parallels in the world. Who's destroying him? It's an innovative company. Because she did not give him all the money, but now she takes it away and destroys it to the end! That's why I have a specific offer. We need to eliminate such an innovative company, make an innovation fund, and pass it on directly to the Ministry of Industrial Policy so that there is no such problem. I'm going to open this note that the government has given, and I'm going to show what our problem is, what our government is doing today. I'm opening it. [[To be seen better, glasses need to be taken.]] Innovatively -- I already said -- they're destroying. The aviation industry is kind of good, but notice, only 50 percent is your own ship. And the board is 80 percent of the cost of the plane. So we gave our value to other countries. Are we able to make the ship? I brought here a book on the gyroscopic systems, which is shown in the review: the best results in the world and Europe have Ukraine in this direction. But the aviation industry does not take any action, and everything is ordered abroad. First problem. Especially autonomous navigation. Everyone's going abroad. And he has to do what he does. You see, the contribution of aviation is already high in technology. The metallurgy they were talking about. Ukraine is the author of 5 discoveries in the field of metallurgy. None of them were introduced in Ukraine, Germany and Japan alone. Here's your reserve, where to fix all your efforts! I'm opening another chapter. Shipbuilding. What will be our builders? Mostly the hulls, and the ship's back on board. America’s task is to solve the problem of electric power by changing the speed of rotation in 20 years. Ukrainian scientists have solved this problem. Why do our shipbuilders buy all the equipment abroad? He's got his own! Our builders, the automaton factory, received a state award for a gyroscopic device, for a gyrazimut, a gerasimut compass. Once again, everything is bought abroad, and there's a national bonus, and there's a foreign purchase -- that's what the paradox is. I want to go through again. There's energy. I was a participant when Julia Timoshenko held a meeting as an energy-efficient scientist. I'm saying in Germany, in the United States, in energy, 40 percent of the equipment is electronics is functional and powerful, in ours is 1 percent. I'm looking at programs -- nothing. Here in this room, I gave Prime Minister Kinach a request twice why Skrnaftogaz sent a letter not to buy his gas counters and others, but to buy abroad. Energy, by the way, 60 percent of appliances buy abroad when 100 percent can be their own, and better. See! That's why all sectors have to work. We know a lot about the success of our liaisons, the Crucifixion and all that, but the smallest order for our manufacturers, even, you see, I've shown you that there is no analogy in the world. Who does? Our Ministry of Communications! So today the problem is to turn all our industries into their own production, as is done in other countries. The Ministry of Economics is doing the most harm today with its wrong policies and the financial and monetary system. I'm one of the names of this financial and monetary system: today in the world, this is the World Bank data -- today, 320 trillion dollars in the world is going around the world, and goods are going to be 40, that is, the security of the world's goods is 8 to 1, and in Ukraine, the amount of money is 6 times less relative to our GDP, that is, you see, the reverse system again. So until we change the policy of our Ministry of Economics, that is, government policy, until we change the policy of the financial system, we don't look at the real sector of the economy, and we give interest rates that destroy production, nothing will happen. So I support the idea that Minprompolitics need to develop an appropriate national programme, to approve the law, and to direct the efforts of all ministries to work for their industry, so that the same metal industry does not take abroad, but to give to its metallurgy. So this, by the way, is also the energy efficiency of technology. Well, in the end, the most terrifying electronics we've ever talked about here, it goes to the last chapter. Most of all. Check it out, ma'am, 1 bracelet in the electronic branch is 100 bracelets in the budget. One kilogram of microscheme costs three times the cost of a kilogram of gold. Why do we walk our feet and destroy it? What's more, I'm surprised that, really, when we did an electronics exhibition in Ukraine, none of the foreigners came because they're afraid of Ukraine as a competitor, and the government is ruining our capabilities. So, your honor, this is the Supreme Council, by the way, adopting my bill, and I was the author of the principle of re-establishment of the electronic industry. At the hand of the Mineconomy, the President vetoed it. Moreover, the law on supporting the production of their television sets has been repealed, that is, the struggle against government production. So we need to change psychology, we need national interests to be more globalized, because globalization, and I've shown you examples that it's not because developed countries are acting on one scheme, and we are acting on another. Why is there only development in a globalization-free zone? Look, China, Japan, that's different. Therefore, respectable ones need to see the world. And I'm talking to Ivan Fedorovich, he's out, Kuras, let's get our scientists together, let them wake up. Well, you can't be like this without the ability to work, well, as if you're being vilified, you can't see what's going on in the world. We need to act in the interests of the nationals. And I support these proposals that the Minprompolitans and the government are saying that there is a possibility that you can, now, support new technologies, new projects in the new budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u91	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Valentin Ivanovich Landik, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Demiochin. Dear colleagues, I ask you to abide by the Rules. 20 minutes for the show is time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u92	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Government Members, Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of a State Strategy for Restoration of Own Production Support in Ukraine deserves attention and remains relevant today. No one can help us survive but ourselves. No one will build a society if we do not take matters personally. But if we analyze the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers over the past 6-7 years, we'll see that virtually nothing is done in this direction. Legislation has been adopted to encourage the production of cars in Ukraine, to take steps to support the shipbuilding industry in Ukraine and others, but there is still no Ukrainian car, and the shipbuilding industry is barely living. The slogan "Keep the domestic manufacturer" remains a slogan. State institutions both purchased imported goods and purchased and worked for the economies of other countries. We forgot that in order to live better, we had to make one bracelet of wages for one bracelet of industrial and food products. What support of a domestic producer can be discussed when a manufacturer in Ukraine is far from inequitable with a foreign producer? This is about a significant reduction in the value of many of the goods imported into Ukraine at their customs office. This is meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, sugar, refrigerators that we produce against the Soviet Union three times as many. In that year, $1 million was produced. Knock. TVs, washing machines, and other household appliances that are imported into Ukraine at no cost to avoid paying taxes and taxes on the added value. Experts estimate that some 5 million dollars are not available for Ukraine’s budget each year. The availability of many customs controls and the uncontrolled transit of goods through Ukraine does not allow this work to be quality and effective. There is no prior declaration on imports of goods, and the free trade agreement between the Ukrainian and Lithuanian governments allows some commercial entities to import goods without payment of import duties. At that time, the experience of the customs authorities of Russia and Belarus shows that the problem can be solved if they care for their country. At the beginning of this year, the Russian Customs Committee, according to which a large number of the most important goods imported into the territory of the Russian Federation, had established prices, I would like to point out: both for meat and two dollars, and for agriculture and up to 80 cents, and for lemons and mandarins, and for refrigerators $300, no less, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Russia can join the world trading organization much sooner than before. I'll prove it anyway. On February 4, this year, Ukrainian industrialists worked with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Customs Committee, but until now there is no similar decree in Ukraine. Perhaps many heads of state institutions in Ukraine have an additional income in their pocket, and the State Budget does not interest them. On the basis of the foregoing and with the aim of supporting the domestic producer, we propose to immediately introduce oriented import prices for food and industrial goods by analogy with Russia, to limit the number of customs where food and industrial goods will be scattered, to introduce a previous declaration of food and industrial goods imported into Ukraine and to control their transit through our country. Fourthly, to propose a system of import control for household appliances, while raising import rates, we offer 2003-2006 to work under the slogan: "Buying Ukrainian products -- helping your family, your budget, your state." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u93	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we've got 24 national deputies on the show, and one of them's already on the floor. I'd like to follow the rules. People's MP Demyohin. Prepare Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u94	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the People's Deputies, members of the Government. The issue discussed today on Government Day is of great interest. He was interested in the fact that we should be aware of the impact of the proposed strategy on the economic policy of the State, which it would take on that policy. I will focus your attention on just one, fundamentally basic, normative aspect. The technologically civilized world has shown that more than 90 per cent of GDP is critical to the economic function of science. Only under such a condition will the country's scientific and technological capacity be truly integrated into the State's economy. With the lower scientific intensity of GDP, that is, what we have today, the scientific potential is only a knowledgeable function. Regrettably, the Government is not assessing how far behind we are on this indicator. Without such assessments, the recovery strategy for science-intensive production would not be constructive. It's also an interesting question in form. Would a strategy for the resurgence of science-intensive production acquire legal forms that would ensure full responsibility for the implementation of the strategy? If such a responsibility were to take place, perhaps the number of strategies and concepts would be established at the minimum necessary level. Will there be a long, long government, and parliamentary, multi-strategy and concept of its true expression in specific planning documents? You are well aware, dear colleagues, that the Constitution provides for a very specific document, which is the Economic and Social Development Programme of the country. I will focus on the sectoral aspect of the programme. Let me focus on two sectoral issues: construction and construction. They accumulate national scientific and technological capacities. Construction and automotive can be the engine of the national economy, it is enough to remember, and it will not even forget the examples of Japan and Korea. For many years, Japanese and Korean shipyards have produced two thirds of the world’s total tonnage. It is hard to believe that as early as 1969, more than half of the entire ship’s sinking in Korea was made up of wooden vessels. So if he gets an intelligence in government, he can make a quick success. The start-up technology conditions in the Ukrainian construction are higher than the Korean ones. The construction is also an indicator industry for the implementation of an innovative investment model for the economy. The construction of a highly export-oriented industry. Here we can make full use of the legislative capacity of special economic zones and priority development territories. In conclusion, I will move to conclusions and proposals. It seems that, for the time being, we are dealing only with elements of a strategy to revive national science-intensive production, but there is no reasonable sequence of actions to achieve the strategic national objectives of technological modernization of the economy. If there is political will, and this begins with the rules of interaction adopted today by the Supreme Council of the Coalition Government, the existing agreement may form the basis for the development of a State strategy for the resurgence of science-intensive production.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u96	It is proposed that the Government further develop the implementation of this strategy. Establish a strategy, in fact, primarily a resource-based system of responsibility for implementation. Finally, ensure the restoration of Ukrainian construction and automotive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I'll turn off the microphone in three minutes. Discussment is not working. Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u98	Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The question of developing a national recovery strategy and supporting its own producer is very appropriate today when people manually dig up sugar beet and harvest corn from the frozen earth. This is the result of reforming the agro-industrial complex, which has completely strained its own manufacturer. Today, in the agricultural sector, technical equipment has decreased by half. 80 percent of the technicians have served their age, no fillings. The compensation from the State Budget for the purchase of peasants is meager. According to experts, it takes 400,000 tractors and 80,000 combines to get to the 1990s. In addition, there is a great need for shimmers, cultivators, plows. In Kirovgrad, over 100 years ago, a company called Red Star was created to produce agricultural engineering, seedlings for grain, corn, beetroot and vegetable crops, loaders, self-propelled mowers. By 1991, 13,000 workers had worked there. Even outside the former Soviet Union, the agricultural engineer of his own production used high demand. Today, some 3,000 workers work there. The permeability of the core funds is more than 90 percent. The question is, can such an enterprise provide for the needs of the peasant in the agricultural sector and restore its own production? Of course not. In the direction of combining over five years, it works, when you could say, the Lan concert of Alexandria. During this time 145 combines have been produced and implemented, which have won the authority of peasants. And this factory with the transition to the market economy, like other businesses, is hardly working today. There are constant difficulties, stagnation, or complete downturn in the supply industry, poor rural buyers, and Ukrainian commercial banks do little to secure medium - and long - term loans. In order to hold on to the water and take into account the needs of the country in the harvester harvesters, the Lan concert team has embarked on a resurgence of its own production. Unfortunately, the producers' good intentions were not supported by the government and the President of Ukraine, but instead of allocating the costs of the Lan concert, they're being purchased abroad by the Jondiri and Casey. The factory walkers didn't beat one threshold, but it's useless, and today the factory doesn't work, because there's no way the clans will share the portfolios. And it's springtime, and we're going to be looking again for money to get someone, not our own manufacturer. Dear government, please tell us by what time will Ukraine be picking from the world’s waste dump? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u99	Thank you for your time, even saving time. National MP Masenko, Communist faction. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u100	Dear fellow national MPs! In my view, the interesting question today is that the government's work on developing a state-owned recovery strategy and supporting its own production. Well, if there's support, it's still clear, but there's rebirth. So it was. Some, on the other hand, have ruined their own production and have not shouldered any responsibility. There was no war or natural disaster, and our own production collapsed. And now we're asking the question that somehow let's regenerate it, look for scientific potential, money to look for and recover. And in my opinion, if we first found the culprits -- those who destroyed our own production -- we would have done our own domestic production faster. I read carefully the materials and the help provided by the Cabinet of Ministers until Government Day and, as I looked up, in all directions, in all areas we have something going on. But really in practice we say we can't see with our eyes and see where our own products are. And first of all, I agree with Pavlovski Mikhail Antonovich in the sense that where you don't drop out, it's all objects and goods of import production. [[I liked his report.]] Where is our production? And we don't have to go far, so let's go to the President's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Supreme Council. The cars are imported, the TVs are imported, the office is imported, even the equipment that is installed in the sanus. In the rooms where Deputy Karpov discovered the frauds with the count of ballot papers, and it's imported. Where is our domestic production? Deputies! Dear members of the government! Let's go back to the face of this problem! And then when the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council will watch national television, ride domestic cars, then our production will develop, believe me. And as for the attitude of power, I would call that local example. Here is the need for us to prepare our own productions and scientific technologies, and we have millions of students who have not yet seen what a computer is. As the prime minister or president arrives in the Poltavsk region, the computer class is given. There's still plans for President Ludmila Kuchma's wife to come there, maybe something else will bring her to school. So let them not go abroad and just go to school, but even though there will be computers and children in schools who will see what it is, we may also have scientific technologies to develop. What's the question? They say there's no money. Dear friends, we've set a minimum of 342 bracelets, and why don't we set a limit on income? We've seen those declarations here in the Supreme Council, 10 million dollars of revenue per year. Where is the limit, and how long does it take for a person to stop at a limit? So how do we solve these issues that I'm talking about, that's when our own production is going to develop, and that's how it's going to be at a dead point.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u101	Rachansky, next to Hinzburg. Please follow the Rules. Is there a Rahansky? Hinzburg. He doesn't have Hinsburg. Fucker? Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u102	Fucking Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The question raised today by the Supreme Council is very relevant. The Communist faction repeatedly asked the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers questions about the development of a national programme to support the domestic producer and the development of high technology in Ukraine. In the third call, Communist MPs Kruczkov, Doroguntsev, Tzekalin and others introduced a draft Ukrainian law on State support for the development of high technology in Ukraine. It was accepted in the first reading and our task, the task of the Supreme Council on the 4th call -- to consider and accept this project as a law. You know, the President of Ukraine is thinking about this direction of our domestic economy and in his letter to the Supreme Council back in 2001, "The internal and external situation of Ukraine" in the section "Industrial politics" was tasked with the Cabinet of Ministers in 2001 to develop the concept of State Industrial Policy and to start its implementation. But as we can see, it was all purpose, word, and in fact nothing was done. It was particularly supported by the President that there was a need for real state support for the country's high-tech and national economy and, above all, space, aviation and information technology. You know what's been going on since then, after his intentions for a year and a year and after his so-called independence for 11 years, the country's economy continues to be based on the forces left over after the collapse of the Soviet Union. In the last 10 years, there has been virtually no restoration and reconstruction of the core funds, and they continue to grow older not only morally but also physically. This trend is characteristic of all businesses in the economy, but it's particularly acute, it's a problem in the strategic sector and in the field that determines scientific and technological progress. Yes, in the fuel-energy complex, the thermal power plants worked for 96 percent of their resources. You could call the other directions of our economy. Look, today the production of metal presses is at 30th year level, tractors - 30th year. At the same time, the share of machine-building in the industrial structure is reduced from 30 in the 1990s to 10 this year. In this regard, I think that both the government and the President of Ukraine cannot bear it any longer. So I think that today's consideration should put the dots on what a domestic producer requires serious support, and our decision should serve to restore a domestic producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u103	Gureev, please, Vasil Mikolaiovich. Next Rodionov instead of Rahansky. Look, is it there or not? And we've given you our word? It's okay, it's okay. You're next.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, when I consider this important issue, I would like first of all to draw your attention to the fundamental task for which the State is pursuing State industrial policy. And these are structural changes in industry. And when honourable MPs raise questions and ask questions primarily to the Minister or the Cabinet of Ministers, I would like to say that all industries are important to us, but we need to understand that the main task of public industrial policy is to keep the positive pace in metallurgy, in chemistry, in difficult industries, ahead of the pace to develop machine-building, in scientific industries -- the light industry with rapid circulation of capital, woodworking, food. Although it refers to another little sphere. Dear colleagues, metallurgy, chemistry is Ukraine's main export potential. And we have to support them, but in very different ways, as we in our time passed the law on supporting the steel industry, when problems arose, it was 2.5 years ago. And you know, thanks to the position of the deputies, we have a positive solution to this problem, and today we have a strong branch that supports our trade and payment balance. Machine building. It's a scientific defense branch. What do we have today, dear colleagues? Debt on a government order for work and the technology of the power structures is now 150 million dollars. What's the status of this sector? What is the status of this sector, scientific research institutions, enterprises? They practically broke down. What's the answer? Today we have a program supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the development of weapons in military technology. And that's the right position. But the next step, honourable deputies, is to consider the urgent features of privatization of the defence industrial complex. Specialities, because we have institutions, and intellectual property has not yet been appreciated in our country. and I want to say two words literally after the shipbuilding. Nine powerful shipbuilding factories, adopted at the time when Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko, Prime Minister, was a normal law on industry support. Support was provided through the budget. Today, there are nine vessels, fishing vessels of the fishing industry. The 61st Communicator stopped ordering the Greek customer. We don't understand if we don't budget this funding, do we lose our native fleet? We didn't get a penny in the budget. It's not possible to vote for this budget or it's very difficult because we're going to destroy the whole sector. Financing conversions and research programs in machine construction, funding volumes. The budget provided 25 percent, 23 percent funded. Already today, 20 million in 2002 are projected, in fact, 10 million are funded. The level of funding of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, not the Ministry, and all the programs are 18.7 percent. I mean, honourable colleagues, with no more time, I want to say that much of the formation of state industrial policy depends on us, on budgetary policy, on the financial policy of our state. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u105	Rodionov, please. The next one is Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u106	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, as an electronics specialist, I would like to illustrate the current state of scientific production in industry. We, the people's deputies, recently had to meet with the directors of the electronic industry. And I want to say that the optimistic tone in the report is not true. Electronics, as has been said here, is the direction that determines the intellectual reserve of society, the intellectual development of society. For example, I'll remind you, maybe someone has already forgotten: in Soviet Ukraine, there were only 176 enterprises operating in the Ministry of Electronics. They only produced 316 million pieces of microscheme, they produced 500 million dollars of produce. There were 250,000 engineers, workers, and others working there. This product was competitive because all domestic military equipment was equipped with this product and was in line with world standards, the standards of the United States of America. And it is no coincidence that they are still chasing the Ring today, and they cannot understand how it is that in Soviet times such weapons have been produced in Soviet Ukraine that they cannot reach this level today. That's a first. Secondly, as it may have been, it has already been said that this complex lies, as they say, and finally. The Director of the Amounts Factory, who produces microscopes of the world level and microscopes that need to be handled simply by no scientific institute, says that no copies of Ukraine have been ordered in recent years. If they survive, they survive through orders from Russia, China and other states. I mean, we don't need this product. She says that we have also lost this potential in this case. And the last. Because that capacity speaks for itself. The scientific potential tells us that we have lost the intellectual development of society, we have lost our jobs deliberately, we have lost our wages, we have made the living conditions of the Ukrainian people worse. This is exactly what the 1948 United Nations declaration defines as genocide of its own people. And if we want to build a cellar there, it will be right if it says in this cellar that the current power that has led to the destruction of Ukraine's economy is responsible for this genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u107	Thank you. Hinzburg Olga Petrovna and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u108	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. For me, first of all, it's like talking about the social situation of our citizens today. So the support of a domestic producer is jobs and wages. I'm always paying attention to my district, this is the city of Konotop, the city of Shastka, this is two major industrial cities, where many industrial enterprises, engineering, military factories, railway factories, the car repair plant, this is after the release of high-pressure reinforcements, the Svema factory, the Shastkin factory and others. And all of these factories have been in state property for a while, and for a while now they're in private property. And the complex issues that arise and arise today are being heard by the employees of these enterprises and factory directors today, and they think: Today the Supreme Council is likely to make some informed decision, and tomorrow or after a while we will hear and receive the support of the state. And so if they're not, why are they talking about it in the Supreme Council, whether they have too much time, or maybe they're saying it for some other matter there, they want to take our eyes out again. And the director of the factory who's listening to us today is waiting for what they're going to decide. As an MP, I come to the county and I'm asked, "Dear Olga Petrovna, have you been at the hearings, and what decision have you made?" And I'll tell them, "Dear Directors, don't create illusions, because nothing this Supreme Council can accept because most of the Supreme Council today voted in favour of a government programme where, like, three or four tapes are written to support a domestic producer." Once again, our country’s budget will be voted on Thursday, where 17 percent will be rewritten or 20 percent will be supported by a domestic producer. And it is time for the newspaper to publish who today is voting in favour of a domestic producer, voting in favour of today’s State Budget. I got some numbers today. You're going to vote for what you're going to vote for. Look. In 2000, 151 doctors and science candidates went out to countries with more attractive scientific conditions, 11 percent more than in 1990, and in 1995-2000 alone left Ukraine 270 doctors and 640 candidates for science. Now, just a little bit longer, I want to tell you. The criminal activity of the rulers has led to the complete destruction of the branches that are the basis for the scientific and technological progress of our country. Thus, the production of metal presses in 6 months 2002 accounted for only 413 pieces, or 2.2 percent since 1990, or 7 percent since 1940. And so on. What do I see the reason for, and can we resolve these questions? We just have to decide. I've always made such a promise to myself. On this platform, I'm going to say, "Only we, our Supreme Council, are going to solve these complex issues by showing political will, because it's going to be even worse behind us." And the voters who supported these deputies, I'm simply inviting us to accept this budget, so that our voters, our businesses, can feel it in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! She insists on Karmazin. He's next, if we give the word to Karmazin, we're done, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u110	Thank you. Thanks to the national MPs who think they can't do this without Carmazin. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear government! Of course, the question we are considering today is of great importance. I'd like, given that I've only been given two minutes, to touch on such an extraordinary issue right now as technology parks. Look what's going on. In Russia, there are 60 technoparks nearby, in China there are over 100, and we have 8 on paper. And look what they're doing! Look where the money went from tax! For import from the Russian Federation of Wings of the Aged 40 Years ago by Volga! Don't you know that? I'll open your eyes if you don't know. What, there are no other suggestions from our scientists, engineers, managers? Yes. There are dusty materials in the parks, science equipment. Sumi. An environmental park in the Donetsk region. Textile is Herson. Marine technology and technology are being explored from the mining of the world’s oceans and the Azores of the Black Sea. But it doesn't go through all of that in the corridors of power. As you think, if there are three legal persons in one physical person: the president of a working tech park, the head of a commission on state support for the activities of technology parks at Kabmin and the vice-premier of Ukraine on humanitarian issues. Do you think they'll go under this roof? There will be support. Who am I talking about? About our former colleague, ours, and then government official Vladimir Seminozhenko. Dear friends! But let's put ice on it and say, if we want to be not a banana republic, but we want to be a civilized country, we need to look at technology in a completely different way. Thank you. My time is up, but the time has actually run out for those officials who are so mismanagement. And our time is yet to come! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like to speak to Nikolaynko Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u112	Nikolainka, Head of the Committee of Science and Education. I would like to contact government representatives today, a two - question companion of Misalica. First, and to go to the government in general, we have a staffing problem today of the 449,000 people who were engaged in the science field in the 91st year, in fact, there are two and a half times fewer people. We have science doctors getting older today, science candidates, we won't have anyone to move this science unless we raise our salaries to keep our staff policy going. And the second is the informational co-existence of the economic growth of our economy. If we don't implement the state information program today, then yesterday we met how we do it in the Uranus KPI, we'll never get out of place. This year we allocated 1 percent of the school computerization from the budget. Is it possible today for each ministry, department, to provide its own information and information program? It takes a state-owned information program to provide a new modern information product for all businesses, all VUZs and so on. These are two moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u113	Of course, finish, please. The closing words of the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Anatoly Kostinović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u114	Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished members of the people, in closing, I would like to thank you all once again for the fact that the Supreme Council has begun its work on industrial matters. The interest of the deputies is reflected in the large number and diversity of issues. Not everything that goes on in industry today pleases me as a minister, and I hope that the joint work of the Supreme Council, industry, deputies and committees will allow us to reach the levels that our society today requires. Comments, proposals will be analysed, used to further the development of the economy and the well-being of peoples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Shufrich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u116	I'm out of procedure. Thank you. I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues, as described in article 3.3. 6 Each of the MPs and groups has the right to speak on the issues discussed in the Hall. So I realized that the Socialist Party and the United Social Democrats were not given a word for the speech today. We're sorry about that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u117	You and I have taken time to consider this matter. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Rudkov microphone, please turn it on. One minute. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u118	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I still insist on my first question. You need to be able to speak to each of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u119	No problem. Shall we put to the vote a continuation of the consideration of this matter? But we do have a very important issue ahead of us regarding heating. We've agreed with you, we've been discussing this for two hours. Time's up, we've moved on for 15 minutes. Thus, according to the agreement, we conclude our consideration of the matter. Please, the PSC, the other MPs are working on a decision to be made for the plenary session. Let's get this over with. Next question: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 22 October of this year, "On measures to provide heat to residential buildings, educational facilities, health, culture and other social objects burning from centralized heating networks". Reported to the head of the State Committee on Housing, Samchuk Grigory Mihajlovich. Please. We agreed on it all the time. Who. They can come out, they can interrupt, and we're looking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u120	The honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the question that is being considered today is certainly of great importance to both our citizens and Ukraine as a whole. I would like to point out that the government is fully responsible for ensuring this year's heating season. All possible arrangements are being made for the organization and financial security of the uninterrupted, the thermal supply of housing and social facilities, and the provision of services. Every month, starting in July of this year, the issue was discussed at meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers and at selectors’ meetings, with the participation of central executives and local authorities. Sadly, however, it was not possible to avoid letting things go. This is rightly pointed out in the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to do so today. In order to finance the uninterrupted provision of housing funds and social facilities, the accounts for the services provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were adopted by Will 11.11 of the current year, No. 1693 "On the transfer of budget accounts for consumption of electronics". The regulation provides for the calculation of the balance of budgetary allocations as defined in the cost of these budgetary institutions and organizations for the current year, with the inclusion of NAC Naftogaz and NEC Energoatom in the State Budget, which is estimated at 1.10 this year. The Cabinet of Ministers also adopted another decree of 31.10 on the redistribution of annual subsidies from the State budget between local aid budgets and subsidies to the population for energy, natural gas, thermal supply, water supply and communications services, which will allow more fuller calculations to be made for services and subsidies to the population. The implementation of these decisions will enable the government to improve the financial situation of the thermal and water-supplying organizations and enterprises, to ensure budgeting for energy consumption. With the aim of eliminating emergency situations in residential areas, assistance has been provided from the State Budget Reserve Fund in the amount of 5.7 million dollars to the cities of Kirovograd, Pervomaysk and Stahanov Lugansk region, a village of the city type of Stepnoorsk district of Zaporez. The decision to provide such assistance amounting to almost 1.9 million dollars was made in the city of Rowenka Lugansk and the Zurupina Herson region. The government created an interministerial commission to prepare housing for work during the autumn-winter period 2002-2003. In each city, committees have been set up to check the quality and cost of housing services, consider the issue of debt repayment for residential services, assist citizens in the formulation of subsidies, and provide an explanation to the population. The newly created government has already initiated weekly selectors’ meetings on the issue of the heating season, in which Minpalevenergo, Statelocomhosp, other central executives, district, city governments, and other central authorities are taking part. The monthly monitoring of housing and utility bills and energy management is carried out every month, as well as daily operational information in the event of emergency situations in residential and utility facilities. In the third quarter of this year alone, it was possible to reduce the debt of 240 million people for services. In our opinion, it will have a positive impact on the overall situation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on November 28th on the restructuring of population debt for residential services. It's worth noting that the last few days of action have made it possible to improve the situation of those areas where there have been serious irregularities, including in the Žitomirsky, Odessa, Sumskiy region, Kharkiv, you know, there was a situation where it was unlocked, there were almost 150 areas of the population, and now these issues are all taken and taken measures, and the heating process is going smoothly. Sevastopol has 16 buildings that did not burn down last Friday. In general, 99.9 livestock works on December 9th, 99.7 residential buildings, 99.9 preschool facilities, in the same amount of school facilities, are burned down by a percentage of the hospital. We've got information all over the building. It's basically a disaster, and in a number of feces, we're dealing with the supply of gas limits. And we keep it under control every day, so that as soon as possible, all of these questions will be removed. It should be noted that the heating season takes place in extremely difficult financial and economic conditions. A number of heating facilities do not work because of the absence of natural gas limits. For example, in the Dnipropetrovsk district of Sinelk. Two boilers, resulting in a fire of 46 houses for the day. According to yesterday's information today and tomorrow, there will be arrangements to include these houses in the heat. Despite the positive trend in natural gas payments, debts of about 170 million in October, in Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Chernigiv, the gas debt continues to rise. A serious conversation took place last Friday at a selector’s meeting with those leaders in the areas where such events still take place, and urgent action was required to be taken to eliminate them. The debt of water-supply companies is water-supply. Unfortunately, electricity consumption tends to increase. The state of payments to energy companies is primarily linked to the non-payment of consumers for housing services received. As far as tariffs are concerned. As you know, honorable national MPs, according to the legislation in force, namely the Law on Local Government Administrations and Local Self-Government, are set up by local executives and self-government agencies. Today, these tariffs do not compensate for the full cost of housing services. Since the beginning of the year, more than 500 million dollars have been incurred by residential utilities in nine months. On the average, in Ukraine, the cost of heating services is 66 percent, from 30 to 50 percent, of fuel and energy resources, of water supply, of water supply. So in order to ensure the continued operation of businesses, it's important that the financial model is working away from the impact of the industry, which is what our new committee is currently working on. And in the near future, such proposals will be made to the government. In line with the mandate of the President of Ukraine at the beginning of 2003, Minfin, DPA, the Antimonopoly Committee and our committee will be subject to a thorough review of all housing and utility enterprises regarding the economic feasibility of service tariffs. It was necessary to complete the work on improving the existing regulatory framework, which should provide conditions for the transition of economically sound tariffs to residential services, transparency, and the definition of component tariffs for these services. We have already developed a new set of tariffs in the water supply sector, which is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Antimonoline Committee, and registered in Minsk. It provides for tariffs to have an investment component, it provides for a mechanism for the economic interest of enterprises in energy conservation. This will enable companies to store money and direct it primarily to energy conservation. This order is now processed in the heat supply and will soon be approved in its proper order. We're also developing in other areas. We also need support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the adoption of important legal acts, namely the new edition of the Housing Code, which is now being considered by the government and will be brought before the Supreme Council in the near future. Amendments to the Ukrainian Business Act, article 23 of which stipulates that local authorities should compensate businesses for differences in tariffs where they are confirmed below their own value. A significant improvement should be made in the financial situation of water-consolidation enterprises The Act on the introduction of a cash tax method for VAT on these enterprises, which is already under consideration in the Supreme Council. The government keeps under constant control the issue of the continuous passage of the heating season. To conclude, I would like to thank you, honourable national deputies, for your attention to this important issue. And I'm sure the government and our housing committee will take all the steps we can take to make it a normal season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I feel like you have a question. Please sign up. 10 minutes for questions and answers. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Lechchenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u122	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Gregory Mikhailovich! In fact, the structure of tariffs has a significant share of the cost of energy carriers. So didn't the government consider the issue of reducing this cost just so that these monopolistics that supply gas and that sort of thing would lower prices? That's the first question. And the second. How many families in Ukraine have been evicted from their own apartments for not paying housing services because they don't have the money to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. For the first time in terms of energy efficiency in utility. Indeed, it is one of the most important issues today that needs to be addressed at the level of government, the state. I've already said that water supply and heat, first of all, reaches between 30 and 50, 60 and more percent. In Luhansk the water supply. The cost of water services and sanitation is more than 75 per cent when in the world practice this component reaches 12-14 per cent, up to 20 per cent in developed countries. So this is the reserve that needs to be activated today in order to reduce the cost and the end result of the tariff. We're now working on special measures, a financial model for energy-saving technologies. We need the money. So I said that in shaping the financial model of industry stability, we define this as a priority, as a new tariff formation, and we also prepare targeted proposals for regulating energy prices, taking into account the price formation of housing tariffs. Soon these proposals will be made to the government. What about eviction? None, I believe, of any family yet has been evicted for rent and housing services in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u124	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU. Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u125	Thank you. Gregory Mikhailovich! Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU, town of Zaporozhye. And I have a question about the city of Zaporozhye. In my opinion, the behaviour of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine today, which shuts down or limits the supply of gas to the population, is very similar to that of a government racket. If you're talking about taking parenting measures, I think winter is not the period of the year where you can do this kind of parenting. Please tell your assessment, Head of the State Committee on Legality, the so-called NAK Naftogaz faxogram of Ukraine on the volume of gas supply in boiler rooms, such as the city of Zaporozhye, where the city has given up all its urban property, the payment is 126 percent, and the gas is not available, and the city is saved by the boilers of industrial enterprises that provide oil for these purposes. Your assessment of the head of the NAK Naftogaz Committee of Action of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! We have to understand and my evaluation is very simple. And we have to pay for the energy supply, and we have to pay for the housing services. There can't be such a picture of us lending both our services and NAK lending us gas. I'm saying again that right now we're on the committee working out the general rules of the game, as I call them. So we want to sort -- once again, I'm saying, energy prices by tying them up with prices for residential services. In the near future, we're making these proposals to the government, and now we're working them off with the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u127	National deputy Bunny, please. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u128	Honey, the NDP faction. Please pass the word to Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u129	Dear Grigory Mikhailovich, you've been asked about the tariffs. I'd like to make it clear. What is being done by the committee today is for all these losses on heat and water supply. When will the situation change so that the consumer does not pay for all the losses that occur in these two networks? What is being done in this direction is your committee, except for those orders that you claim today. And yet by the heat, you said he was only in the process of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u130	Indeed, the technical state of the systems in general in the housing sector is critical and particularly alarming today in the state of the networks in the water supply and heating sector. It should be noted that dynamics are not in our favor either. There is a constant increase in the percentage of accidents on the network. We have already reached two accidents per km of network per year, which is more orderly than in developed countries. Today, there is an emergency in the water supply networks, up to 30 per cent of the network, of almost 38,000 kilometres of networks. We change every year to 300 kilometers, so if we change at this rate, we're almost 100 years old. I therefore reiterate that today, on the basis of the reform programme approved by the Government at the beginning of the year, the Committee has developed six strategic reform directions, which also includes improvements in the management system, which includes the development of a financial model for industry stabilization. This is an integrated approach, and we are confident that by working out the normative framework, we will bring our networks to order. So far, this is really the situation. And what's more, it won't be delayed for some time. We have set ourselves, the Committee, a task until 2005, to stabilize the situation in the industry, to prevent an increase in receivables, accounts payable, and to take measures to self-finance the industry. The parallel committee is now working fruitfully with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. You already know that a project is in place to modernize the water supply system in Zaporozhye. You have virtually recently ratified the World Bank Treaty on the City of Lviv. On our way out, we're getting credit for the town of Herson. I literally returned from Paris the day before, where I held talks with representatives of the World Bank and the European Bank on the involvement of additional resources in the thermal supply of Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Curve Horn and 5 cities, where the worst state of the European Bank in the water supply, sanitation system. That is, the comprehensive measures that we will take will have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u131	Grigory Mikhailovich, you have a wonderful Ukrainian language. I think you can answer, everyone here will understand you, in Ukrainian. Please, National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u132	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Gregory Mikhailovich, I'm not burdening you with the question of whether you're forming tariffs or not, I know you're not involved in this, and they're not even asking you how to raise tariffs or not. I only have two specific questions for you. First. Did you personally give any orders to shut down 20 PTUs from the heat supply of 31 PTUs, this is official data, and from the heat supply to shut down 21 schools and where 50,000 children are in the cold today? These are methods of training, perhaps on the part of your committee today. That's the first question. And the second question. I just got back from Pavlovgrad. Have you given appropriate orders for those who do not pay for their consumption of gas today to turn off the gas? And they're single mothers, multi-child mothers, pensioners, and then they're running after all of these turn-offs, and they're still paying them 100 bucks to hook up. Are you personally involved in this or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u133	I am fully responsible for the fact that no such assignment was given to disengagement of objects and the social sphere, and neither I nor my deputies on the committee gave shelter from the facilities. I, more than that, had not been given commission and government. I don't know what that information is. On the contrary, last Friday we held a selector with the new Vice-Prime Minister Hajduk, where there were all the district leaders, cities, districts, and no one was giving that direction. The question was, I am responsible for what I said, and the question was to take immediate action to complete the heat leak on those objects where they were still shut down. According to our data, only two schools are burned in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u134	National Deputy Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u135	Dear reporter, tell me. Please, what's your position on the heat billing system? I mean that system that's now quite massively being introduced into a number of places in Ukraine with links to certain letters from the Ministry of Energy and Kabminowski. And this letter that you know about collective responsibility, collective pay. As a result, direct agreements with users, with residents, are not made by heat-supply institutions in a number of cities, such as Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the Lviv, the direct agreements directly with the users, the residents, and they are forced to sign such agreements with operational buildings, the well-known buildings, as a result of which there are a whole series of conflict situations, they are virtually eliminated, the cooperative funds that should go to repairs and so on. This is done in force with links to certain Kabmin documents. What is your position, and are you willing to support the transition to maximum individual agreements?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u136	We have a simple position on the committee. In fact, today in a number of cities, payments are being collected by someone who has put in place. My personal opinion is that a person should not run around on many suppliers and pay for his services. So the question of working out the improvement of the housing management system is that we are now going to be launching customer services, as is done in many countries -- in Poland, in Russia, the same. And the first pilot project we're already working on with the Odeskikkonka and Odeska observatories. There will be a client’s service, which will conclude contracts to provide services with the population, associations of the owners, and associations. On the other hand, on a competitive basis, contracts will be made for the provision of utilities. And the collection of payments will be done through the customer service, if you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u137	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is headed by Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko. Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u138	An empty tank, a faction of the People's Democratic Party. I would like to address the honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, how interesting the question of the state of the heating season. Well, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we agreed yesterday at a meeting of the Coordinating Board that there would be government representatives. I looked in the bed -- one Shevchuk Vasil Jakovic from the NDP faction present in the bed, so the government isn't interested in considering this decision, and we're looking at it. That's the first question. The second question was, yesterday I had a two-hour meeting with the head of the State Committee on Housing. He is a trained man who has great experience. I have one question, and I want to tell you that I've come to know the next job and this committee, and I'm going to be a case, and the committee that I lead is related to knowledge. I could say that we need to solve two of the following questions and not address this issue again. The government is responsible, will be responsible for the situation, as well as local councils. The first question is the government's information to take to the knowledge, what they've reported, because it's not the government manager's report, and write down the government's decision to vote on Thursday to put forward a comprehensive housing reform programme for four months. Today. It's not the season, it's the future, because we're going to listen again. I just want you to pay attention, today, the complete inadequacy of public service tariffs for this job. Today, tariffs are 50 percent of the actual costs that are being spent on utilities today. And if this system isn't adjusted, you can't do that. This can be done at the same time as wage increases, with higher pensions, so that the system is balanced. Today, the system of utilities. The municipal economy is unable to provide quality services for the provision of heat, water, water, gas supply, and the economy of all energy resources. So the committee has prepared a draft regulation, and I would like us to be sure to support it, including by supporting the ban on the previous payment of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine for the provision of utility services. And I'd like to ask you to support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. We've heard the information, we're not discussing the information. Wait a minute! Please calm down! Can you give me a chance to say it or not?Oh, my God! Do not abuse your woman’s right, please calm down! But we've got eight people. I suggest that if we have such a need, we take 15 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? We're not voting. Please. But 15 minutes. Taras Chernobyl, please. Get ready for Carmazine. I ask you to speak briefly to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, in fact, the problem of heating, as well as providing any other services, always comes up in a very painful way just when we're talking about it late -- we have to do it. I'd like to talk less, and I'd like to say just two facilities, two problems that arise in places that are being encountered by both the utilities and the residents directly. Municipal services and cities themselves have a problem of completely unorganized cooperation with NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and not yet defined by the end of priority policy, resulting in no normal rules of play. And here, I think, is the task of both the relevant State Committee, and the Supreme Council -- still, to establish those rules. And I think we're going to add it a little bit, we're going to reflect it in the corresponding draft, and obviously in the future, we're going to have to make it a proper rule of law. As far as the inhabitants are concerned, we will also need to regulate, at the legislative level, those aspects that relate to the provision of public services, especially the provision of heat, precisely in relation to their constitutional standards: appropriateness, inadmissibility of solidarity, and so on. In general, a number of places, particularly in Lviv, are carried out by things that are legitimized by some flimsy letters from Kabmin, which allow urban utilities to require residents to contract non-individuals, which give direct direct responsibility and the ability to demand the same services individually and in court order, and otherwise, while the requirements for making agreements with residential cooperatives are met, with prominent buildings that create an automatic system of mutual responsibility, community service and essentially put those structures in a deadlock. In the city of Lviv, there was in fact a rebellion against the owners of cooperative apartments. I hope that the State Committee here will provide appropriate assistance in order to remove the legal commissions that have arisen in this regard and to ensure that normal system calculations are restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine, Reverend Volodymira Mikhailovich. You can see that today we need to dissipate for all the questions that there are, the head of a committee that has no reason to be dissipated on these issues. He's just one of the chains. He has to report here today, as a minimum, Deputy Prime Minister of Hayduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u143	Deputy Prime Minister Haydur is ill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u144	So another Deputy Secretary, thank God, we have three of them, you know that. But on behalf of the government, someone has to speak up. And besides, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that this is where the entire TEC, all the representatives, doesn't share money and don't make bonds now for 3.5 billion under the desert, under that Nazibank they want to take, and here they have to sit. And here's to the execution of the decree you signed, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. She did not comply with that decree. What we're going to say is that they don't know what's off the heat and the military and the schools, the PTU, the whole city. I'm not gonna call it yesterday. The kids didn't go to many cities in school. And today we're told that there's no information about it. The roots of all of this lie right here, in this order, which was made out of the "For Service Use" griffon, which is a special secret. This is a single act by the Minister of Finance of the former Yusk, who, in fact, restricted the budget by one order for official use. That's how interesting the lines are. For energy-saving measures, the inter-branch is minus 12 million, and there was still a minus 12 million. We have people dying all the time now. So in order for them to die even more, the question is: fire-fighting measures and participation in the elimination of the consequences of emergencies -- minus 10 million, the material and technical security of the State Fire Department, which is funded by 20 percent -- another 10 million. Well, at the end of the day, to save no one -- minus 55 million for cancer patients, minus 55 million for tuberculosis patients. What do you think? Who are we going to turn on, what we're looking at, your honor? It is a program of extinction, a program of genocide and famine. So I think there's also a complete mismatch of tariffs, which is what the majority of Mr. Desertacco said, and all the other questions have to be one estimate -- not a satisfactory estimate. And what was taken into account was not accepted, other proposals today in the hall of the moon cannot be made if we are representatives of the people, because the people give an unsatisfying assessment of what is being done in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u145	Anatoly Frost, a faction of Communists, prepare for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u146	Dear Chairman! Dear members of the government! The issue, indeed, is being addressed in the walls of the Supreme Council today. I just got back from the county, and I've got a lot of telegrams coming to me, where voters are asking about the power outage at a time when it's cold. These are the voters from next door, even my district. The region, near the Herson region, is illegally privatizing the skyline, shutting down the heat. People can't get drunk or warm. Similarly, a telegram came from the residents of the Yakimiv district. Four hundred people today are completely without heat. And the story of this question is the following. Two years ago, he approached the government, addressed the minister of the agro-industrial complex Anatolia Kirilovich. Anatoly Grigorovich Kirilenko. Ivan Grigorovich, I'm sorry. I went to different places. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy has always written off that "your request for compensation for own expenses incurred as early as 1990 for the construction of the gasification of the village of the South Branch of the Institute of Mechanization and Electricity of Agriculture reports once again that the costs are costs. They did, they ran the gas." It seems that all we have to do is count to the state with the organizations that did this work. But it hasn't been resolved for three years. And for today, residents are forced to continue to freeze. "Please assist us in resolving the issue of the thermal supply of the South branch housing fund "IMES" located on the territory of the Yakimiv Village Council of the Zaporozhye Region and subordinated to the main IMES of Ukraine, the village of the city type of Glyvah of the Basilk district of Kyiv Region. [[Director Lisicki]] [[Director of Goukov]] Up until now, the housing fund has not been set on fire. Right now. The director of the branch is on leave, the deputy of science is released, and the deputy on the farm is only working for three months. Debt accounts for the gas used in this settlement, amounting to 42,000 dollars. The boiler is neither state nor equipment. So I'm talking to the government, I'm talking to the officials who are responsible for this area of work to give immediate attention to the Yakimiv district of Zaporozhye. A few would like to say about the government's receipts and the gasification of the Wessel district of Zaporozhye. I'm lying here, and I've already been on the walls of this Supreme Council. What a disrespect for the Prime Minister. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh has commissioned the allocation of the funds that have been invested in the 2002 budget for the gasification of the Wessel region and Stepnoorsk for the present year, only 100,000 have been allocated and almost 8 months have passed. I understand that you may not respect the deputy, you may disrespect, I know, there are citizens of our Ukraine, but the Prime Minister who gives the commission and the money in the budget must do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u147	National Deputy Alexandrovska, prepare for Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u148	The distinguished Presidency, respected colleagues, surprised me that the information we heard would return, in response, that at the moment only one school had been shut down, that is, the only budgetary organization that was not heating up today. I do not want to question this fact, perhaps at this point in time, knowing that the Supreme Council is considering the matter, something has really happened there and everyone has been connected. But I want to say that in Ukraine today, people of Ukraine are simply being bullied by budgetary organizations. We have three areas in Harikov last week: Kominternovsky, Czervonozadski and part of the Vrunsk region, from the heat. Do you represent?Oh, my God! And it was official in the press in Kharkiv that they did this consciously because they were heavily indebted to gas, as we heard in that information today. But what's the reason why these gas debts are such, and why do our authorities allow themselves to be ridiculed by people? At a negative temperature, they said that we still turned off until it was too cold to show what we would do if we didn't pay for the gas. And at what price do we get gas? We have a gas company in Harikov Shebelinka, and if I'm right about that, I have information last year, the state gets $8 per thousand. At what cost do we pay for the gas that comes to utilities? At what price do we pay for the gas and the electricity we receive from the people who receive, return, housing and utilities? You can see for yourself that someone makes a very good living on this price difference. Therefore, the first is indeed a tariff policy; it must be regulated in the State; it must not go past the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Electricity tariffs, gas tariffs, gas prices should be the same as those for the population, i.e. gas and electricity supplied to housing and utility services should be tariffs the same as those for consumption by the population. Let's move on. I want to tell you, in the press, it sounds like we have a very large shadow economy. 40 per cent of the budget is back in the shadows. The same means, they are not the people of the heavens who fall upon our heads. The shadow economy is production, it's shadow production, it's production that consumes water, it's production that consumes gas, it's heat, it's electricity. 40 per cent of the economy works in the shadows. That means our housing and utilities are serving a shadow economy, and who's paying for it? Pays the people. The people whose wages are poor today, their pensions are miserable. Today, pensioners who have received a pension allowance of 3 bracelets are deprived of a grant because they have exceeded the threshold. Today, pensioners pay not 15 per cent of their income but more for housing and utilities. We need to review the entire grant system and figure out where that money is going. So I would like to acknowledge the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in implementing our decision as unsatisfactory. And here I'm surprised by the Desert Shadow. He was the Prime Minister, then why he didn't say that it was necessary to raise wages and pensions, and today he finally realized it by a deputy. I have the hope that, indeed, the Supreme Council will give a fair assessment of our Cabinet of Ministers and recognize the work as unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u149	Thank you. People's deputy Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u150	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I just want to talk to you for two moments. The first point is that all the disadvantaged people who suffer from the cold still feel that the central authority is to blame. But according to the laws of Ukraine, "For Local Government Administrations" and local self-government tariffs for residential services are set up by local executives and self-government authorities. Even more significant increases in tariffs took place in 2000 -- almost 40 percent -- and now the Cabinet of Ministers has sent us an appropriate letter to the Supreme Council, saying that there is no increase in tariffs. That's not true! In the summer and autumn of 2002, there were numerous protests in the Kyiv region against the rise in housing tariffs. A total of 14,000. The signatures that came to the Cabinet of Ministers and the district government. Answers received. They realize that more than half of the recyclables and district subordination cities this year have seen an increase in housing tariffs. What kind of monitoring is the lie of the Cabinet of Ministers? People feel that someone should be responsible for the abuse that is taking place over the population. That's why I want to say that. According to the same letter from the Cabinet of Ministers, about 5,000 were checked to the Supreme Council of Ukraine during 2001 and the first half of this year. enterprises with the question of the correctness of the prices of housing services that are provided. And in 2044 enterprises, which is 50 percent, there was a violation of government price discipline. Why did this happen? Because they've all gone into public property or private property, and they're primarily about profiting, not providing the population with what they have to provide. Before the draft ruling. I ask you in the draft ruling in the second paragraph, where there is constant monitoring of the heat status of housing, to add the following sentence: "To result in such monitoring twice a year to be given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine," so that every MP is aware of the results of this monitoring. In general, the decree should not be taken into account. The results of the government are considered unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. Showtime's up. We've still got it. One minute, dear fellows, we have three national deputies on record. If the people's deputies have proposals for a draft decision, one minute, if necessary, they'll argue. Please turn on the microphone. But one minute, please, because we have to keep working. And Nikolainka will be 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u152	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro I was the initiator of this decision, so I think the government has done something. A part of the debt owed to the budgetary institutions has been repaid, and repairs have been provided. The government finally pointed out that there was no need to look at the increase in housing and utility tariffs. And the president even understood that, and he said we wouldn't raise it, they're just going to lower it. And you have to lower it down, and why I'm saying you have to start with a monopoly broker. Well, as far as the situation is concerned, the decision is being made with little or too many questions, the extinction of people, the whole microregions, the cities are not being burned. In Chernigov there were even streets covered by people. Only the authorities then paid attention to the matter. I believe that the decision is not implemented, so we need to continue to implement it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u153	Thank you for your attention. People's Deputy Kirilchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u154	Thank you. Kirilczuk, Yulia Timoshenko faction, Volin. The question is archival. You can't give a different score like "unsatisfactory." We don't have systems here, and just now, you see, they're going to develop tariffs, check whose account the geysers are paying for, the greenhouses on the streets, the fountains of hot water. It all pays for the population. But I have a motion for a ruling that can't be judged by a person who's holding a salary, pulling it out, not knowing what it's got to pay for, like facts, or cutting off light and gas, as it did in Volina in Lutsk, where an 80-year-old woman and her daughter, after she was cut off by light and gas, froze up, and their apartment became a grave for them, such facts must be reflected in the decree. I read specifically: "Live houses, living quarters, apartments where people are permanently registered: war participants, pensioners, incapacitated, unemployed, minors or single persons whose total income does not exceed the fixed subsistence minimum, for debts that result in no subsidies or wages being paid, cannot be held liable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we're just the ones who signed up. Well, please! Please, Matvienkov. Do you have a proposition for a verdict? We are. Let's make specific suggestions, let's not show how we love the Ukrainian people. In fact, we don't make the decisions we need, we turn all of this into general conversation. Matvienkov, do you have any suggestions for a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u156	Yes. Yes, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't want to take up time. However, I would like to have specifically instructed the Cabinet of Ministers to consider its decision 619 of 08.06.1996 on the basis of which, on the basis of this order, when hot water is turned off for consumers, it is no longer 9.8 cubic metres per gas, but 18.3 cubic metres per se. I don't want to, I mean, spend time on it right now. But I am simply asking the Cabinet of Ministers to address this issue carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u157	Thank you. Nicolanca, please. Then Pell-pants.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u158	Nikolainka, Hersonian, Socialist faction. I have an offer for the second decree proposed by the Desert Man. Banning skyrockets, including privatized ones, from electricity to consumers, especially citizens who regularly pay for energy consumption. And the Henprosecutor's Office will verify the power cuts to those citizens who pay for electricity, and it's legally shut down this current, for example, the Hessonneblanergo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u159	People's MP Pecklusenko. Then there's Eshchenko. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u160	Respectable colleagues. I believe that such a decision cannot be taken, and I propose the establishment of an immediate working group of three elements: the Cabinet of Ministers, the representative of the Supreme Council and representatives of local self-government. By Friday, they should offer us concrete measures to keep the country warm. People are freezing today. And we have to listen to this question every week, Tuesday and Friday. And on specific proposals. The hungry doesn't understand. Today we have to figure out the average country temperature in housing, it's 8-12 degrees. And so that this temperature is in the Cabinet of Ministers and we have it in the Supreme Council, that's when things get better.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u161	National Deputy Yeshchenko, please. I ask everyone else to submit their written suggestions to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u162	Fucking Communist faction. I ask you to add small cities to the resolution. A city like Vatutino in the Cherkas region is freezing. We have repeatedly raised this question. And so the government has to take into account those small places that have been destroyed by reconstruction, primarily the destroyed industry, the destroyed agriculture. And today people are freezing. Please consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we've all taken the rules. Time's up. I'm asking the National Deputies to submit their proposals to the Supreme Council Resolution 2499 project for this document. I would ask the committee to work on taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the people's deputies so that we can make a decision on Thursday, but a decision that is not an active document. Let us turn to the next question. Out of procedure, please. What's the procedure? Please don't interrupt. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u164	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there will be a request from the Minister of Industry, and there were also two speeches that failed to make a sound, to include them in the Government Day material.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u165	Thank you. I'm asking the national MPs who haven't been able to speak, to give their written speeches, we're going to add to their transcripts. Thank you. The draft Law on arbitral tribunals of arbitration is being introduced. Is there a reporter? Please, Mikola Vasilovich. The committee offers 15 minutes for this project. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention, we have to schedule our meetings today to discuss all of our issues. Five minutes and ten, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u166	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Today, an unusual bill is being tabled. He had long paved the way to the session hall because it was about creating a very important institution for civil society. You and I are used to the fact that in order to deal with private or public disputes, we appeal only to the state. But you have to understand that civil society, a developed society, is a society that provides an alternative only to state institutions to deal with disputes. That is why the draft Law on arbitral tribunals is being drafted and brought to your attention. What's the point? It can't be said that the current legislation does not regulate these relations at all today, because in Ukraine today the provisions on arbitral courts, which were adopted in 1975 in the Soviet Union, are a certain addition to the Civil and Civil Procedures Code, where it is envisaged that certain types of civil courts may be conducted, let's say, third-party independent of the State. But these are all illegal normative acts, and as far as I know, in society, sometimes relationships arise when unethical participants use this phenomenon. That is why a proposal has been made for the drafting of the Law on arbitral tribunals, which would regulate these relations at the legislative level. As far as the basic provisions of the law are concerned. Bringing your attention to the next one. Dear colleagues! Who has the right to set up an arbitral tribunal? Natural and legal persons have the right to form an arbitral tribunal. Two types of courts are envisaged: permanent arbitral tribunals, which have exclusive legal personality, that is, all-U.S. public associations, associations of enterprises, commodity exchanges, and some others, that is, those organizations and institutions that do not seek statutory profit, that is, they should act as independent institutions and allow arbitral tribunals to act on them. These courts are also referred to as chamber courts, that is, they are created by legal persons and act as their own departments or with the status of a single legal person. The second type of arbitral tribunals are, so-called, one-off courts. Ad-hok. You know this practice in the Supreme Council, we sometimes make one decision, we make an exception for one case of Ad-hok. The right to form ad-hok courts have both natural persons and legal persons, but taking into account the signs that I've been talking about. That's the first one. What cases will be under the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal? The draft law is that the arbitral tribunal is subject to any civil and economic dispute. I would like to highlight, except for that. The arbitral tribunals cannot deal with cases of non-regulatory legal acts, the arbitral courts cannot deal with public disputes, the arbitral courts, including tax cases, cannot also consider disputes related to the State secret. [[i.e., disputes involving the State, public authorities, officials]] Finally, the arbitral courts cannot deal with disputes with one of the subjects of government, local self - government, or administration. These are the limitations that apply to the handling of matters. Who could be the arbitral judge? The bill is based on the fact that the arbitral judge can be a loving natural person, chosen by the parties to a relationship who would like the matter to be considered by the arbitral tribunal. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following. The draft law follows that if the matter is being considered in a single way, the person who has taken the trouble of considering the matter should have a higher legal education. If the case is dealt with in a college of judges, or at least three, the presiding officer should have a higher legal education. This proposal in the project comes from the fact that the outcome of the arbitral hearing is a decision and this is a decision, a court decision will then be enforceable on a general basis, as the decisions of the state courts are being implemented. And then it should be legally literate, and accordingly requires knowledge, professional knowledge in the field of law. In conclusion, I would like to say that the arbitral courts provide that the arbitral courts are constantly open to state registrations, that is, those created by organizations and registered as legal persons. They also direct the Ministry of Justice and the regional authorities of the Ministry of Justice to report on the creation, statute, regulations. I mean, all the documents you need. The same arbitral courts, which are formed without the rights of a legal person or on one case, should not pass a national registration, but merely send reports of their creation. And the last position is that of judicial self-government. The project also provides for the formation of an arbitral chamber that includes all the judges. The arbitral tribunals, on the basis of the arbitral agreement and in accordance with the regulations of the arbitral tribunal, refer the interested persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? If so, write down, even though our colleague was persuasive. Please turn on the board. Please, Andrew School. We had a five-minute deal. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u168	Dear reporter, of course, here I think everyone here will agree with me that this is necessary, that this law must be adopted. But you can tell me how directed these arbitral courts will be, just as the judges now run are, will certain objectivity in their actions be established?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u169	Thank you for asking. One of the advantages of this law and, in fact, the creation of arbitral courts is that interested persons have the opportunity to choose a judge to whom they trust as a professional or in terms of social public authority. So, naturally, much of the cases will be taken out of state jurisdiction, from the jurisdiction of public courts, and considered at a perhaps more objective level, at least the parties will feel that they trust the arbitral judge. By the way, it's supposed that the arbitral judge, the draft law comes from the fact that the work done by the arbitral judge is considered creative, and we wanted the national deputies, in particular, to have the opportunity as authoritative people, as socially authoritative people, to also act as a third-party judge in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u170	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! I will certainly talk about the pros and cons of this law in the speech, now I'd like to hear your justification for making changes to the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax, amending other legislation, bringing in the legislative field, sub-legislative legislation that will have to be amended to perhaps more than a dozen. I only care about one thing: how can we say that there can be any language in Ukraine, but nowhere in the law does it say that it should be in Ukrainian. That's how it's coming out of your bill. I'd like us to understand that, and all the deputies understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u172	Thank you for asking, my dear fellow! As far as making changes to the tax law is concerned. The bill is based on the fact that arbitral courts are created, not for profit purposes, but for the purpose of carrying out dispute resolution functions. Therefore, it is natural that the law provides that they should be exempt from taxation, particularly by adding value tax, because there is no profitable activity. All the costs received by the court are directed solely to compensation for the costs of the court’s execution and payment, which is actually the remuneration of the judge in charge of the case. And I think from this point of view it's completely in line with the philosophy of modern Ukrainian tax legislation. Now, as far as the law is concerned. You are absolutely right that all the sub-legal acts that must be adopted must be reconciled more faithfully, if a law is to be passed, must be consistent with this law, including amending the Civil Procedure Code, the relevant provisions that exist, and so on. And the last question about the language of introduction. And in this particularity, in fact, the third view that if, for example, two persons of ethnic origin, whether Germans or Greeks or Russians, many of whom in Ukraine, want their dispute to be considered by a Russian, whom they know, acknowledge, and they are more comfortable with the process being conducted in Russian, for example, they have the right to do so. However, you have rightly noted that the decision of the court to be executed in public institutions, particularly in the public execution service, should be made in a public language, and this would be legally binding with a view to its elaboration if approved in the first reading in the second reading. I see you're pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u173	National MP Gavriluk, People's Rule Group. It may not be in English, but it may be in English. And then he'll be completely satisfied, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u174	Dear Mikola Vasilovich, I may ask an incorrect question, but I want to hear the answer: How do the courts of general jurisdiction and the courts of commerce react to your bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u175	It's a case where, I'll be completely honest, we worked, a working group that prepared this bill, it was made up of representatives of the High Court of Commerce in particular, except for the public organizations of the Law Association, the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and so on. That is, the position of the courts and the courts of general jurisdiction, particularly the Supreme Court, which have made their observations and proposals to the draft law, is to support the need for this important institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u176	Yes, we still have a national deputy, Yeshchenko, to make everyone happy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u177	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, we discussed your bill at the Committee on Industrial Policy and supported it in the first reading. But my question was, will it not be on the committee: will there be no alternative to the arbitral court of commerce? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u178	You realize that there is an alternative, and this is exactly what this law does to enable the very subject of economic activity to make a choice. This will to some extent even create competition in a good sense between the State courts and the arbitral courts. I think the state courts are going to feel this kind of pressure, and that's good, because other drugs to improve the efficiency of the courts are still nothing but competition. But together with how I want to emphasize this again, there are a whole range of categories of cases, and especially public-law disputes, and others that can be considered exclusively by public courts. So the work in state courts is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u179	Thank you, colleague. Let's move on to the discussion. Time's up. All those desiring have already asked the question. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Of course, those who are tired of dealing with cases in domestic courts today, those who are tired of the extent of corruption that prevails there, today who are expecting something else, will certainly benefit from this arbitral court, which now colleague Oneschuk wants to have legislative support. I think that the adoption of this bill is a positive thing because it is aimed at introducing the very new foundations of the dispute resolution institution, because the arbitral review as a way to resolve private disputes is an important component of the modern legal system of defence and does not conflict with part four of article 55 of the Constitution. The only thing that needs to be worked out in this law, and the contentious situation that is, is that the work of the arbitral judge turns out to refer to the so-called creative. I understand what this is all about. Comrade Oneschuk, I ask you very much: let's delete this item, and I'll tell you why. Because today there is the Constitutional Court of the State. So many of the members of this court are members of the International Court of Justice at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and consider their work creative. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can imagine it's a creative activity! It's a job for money, ladies and gentlemen! What kind of creative activity is this?Oh, my God! What's the point of being creative?Oh, my God! If the word "make" is true. So I think we should make these changes here. Of course, the law should be adopted in the first reading. But in order to make changes and to make changes to the laws proposed in this bill, there are a number of laws that go: both the value added tax and the Business Income Taxation Act. Here we need to think very carefully, and we need to come to a conclusion, at least as to the conclusion of the budget committee, at least to the conclusion. Why? Because we're entering a very thin area. And another thin sphere. We compare the decisions of the arbitral tribunals with those of Ukraine, which is a big difference. And we have to tell you how much they're going to pay and here they're going to predict the executive service for making these decisions. And at what rate they're going to pay. We have to support the executive service actually for making these decisions. Let's assume that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u181	27 seconds will be less than next time. Please, Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u182	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear colleagues, I welcome the idea of adopting the Third Court Act. However, one should note one’s colleague on excessive bureaucracy of regulation of a sphere such as third-party litigation. I think we should go from this one correct idea that arbitral courts or arbitral tribunals are an alternative to the state, i.e. it sees in detail and imperative attachment to the principles of civil and commercial procedural rules an attempt to subdue the sphere of arbitral jurisdiction to the state. Just like the creation of a state-wide consulate of the third and third-party chambers of Ukraine, it's pure water bureaucracy that's uninhabited in this area, and the organization of arbitral tribunals of legal persons is like a company that can lead to an affair that is similar to numerical non-profit funds and organizations. And the last murdering argument. The bill is very detailed. However, it does not mention the basic legal rule of the arbitral tribunals — the arbitral tribunal’s decision has the same legal force as the state court’s decision. This is supposed to be article 1 of this bill. Next. A general wish. The bill should be simplified to comply with the provisions of the International Commercial Arbitration Court Act. Throw out long lists of cassualistic devices and move away from the idea of subordination of arbitral tribunals or arbitral tribunals. This is very important for today. What about specific suggestions? The bill's terminology database is not working. Instead of the term "temporary arbitral tribunal," I think we should consider the "ad-hok arbitral tribunal" as adopted in international rules. Next. Instead of "the position of the arbitral tribunal," I think we should use the "rule of the arbitral tribunal." These terms are in principle especially given that the bill includes. in its sphere of regulation and international commercial arbitration. Next. As far as article 2 goes. It raises doubts and concerns about the creation of the Third Chamber of Ukraine, since such an organization of the Apriori foresees the existence of some subordination of arbitral tribunals, which is unacceptable in the context of the very principle of the arbitral tribunals, i.e., again, alternatives to the state courts, which have already been referred to above. Next. As far as article 5 is concerned. It is necessary to exclude from the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals cases related to the renewal of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy. It calls for a denial of the position of part three of article 13 on competition between the provisions of the third agreement and the rules of the arbitral tribunal to apply regulations, regulations, rules, that's what I'm quoting. A third agreement by definition cannot provide for a rule of introduction, so it cannot compete with a rule or rule. And we need to change part three of Article 28. I think that after the additions that I'm going to hand over to the authors, maybe the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u183	Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u184	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Yuri Pavlenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian Youth Party. The low legislative and regulatory provisions of Ukraine contain provisions that provide for links to the resolution of civil or commercial matters by the arbitral tribunals. To date, the status of the arbitral tribunals has been approved by the Act of the State of Arbitration since the year 75. Thus, there is an urgent need for the adoption of the relevant legislation regarding the arbitral tribunal. The draft law introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mikola Onichuk, sets out the basic tasks and principles of the arbitral tribunal, its organization of activities, the procedure for dealing with cases, the question of the execution of decisions by the arbitral tribunals, and their self-government. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to some issues that can be addressed in preparation for second reading. In particular, the bill should clearly define the legal status of the arbitral tribunal itself, which by article 1 is qualified as a non-profit organization. In view of this, we need to find out that the courts can either with or without the status of jurist. It's an association or an association or another form of activity, because they can't be directly referred to the judicial branch of power. We also need to agree with the Scientific Expert Office on the elaboration of articles 6, 8, 12, 18, 50 and 54. But the main thing is that we need to find out in the bill what the outcome is in the arbitral tribunal, who is responsible for the execution and, more often, for the failure of the arbitral tribunal. The bill states that these issues are dealt with in accordance with the law on executive conduct. Today, however, the practice has shown that more than half of civil court decisions are not being implemented. And if there's a thousand more people in the State Executive Service, and I'm sure there's going to be no less, the decisions of the arbitral courts, then it's hard to talk about the effectiveness of the court's decisions, given our legality. So I'm proposing a bill by Mikoli Onichuk on arbitral tribunals to be adopted on the basis of the following substantial revisions to his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law on arbitral tribunals has been considered. [[arbitration]] As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. I'm announcing a draft Law on the State Enforcement Service. A professional committee suggests that this issue be discussed and discussed for 25 minutes. Reporters and co-reporters - in five minutes, answers to questions - in five minutes and discussions - five minutes. Please report to the head of the State Department of Ukraine on the execution of the sentences of Vladimir Anatoliyovich Ljovczyn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Competing People’s Deputies! All present! The bill has been prepared in connection with the creation of the State Department for Execution of Punishment. In recent years, the system has created an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework that regulates the specific issues of the criminal enforcement system, which consists of 26 regional authorities, 180 institutions that now hold more than 198,000 prisoners and prisoners, 162 and a half thousand persons sentenced to non-freedom sentences. In addition, we have two primary schools and one of Montenegro’s secondary staff. Further reform of the criminal enforcement system, the basis of which is being implemented in conjunction with European co-operation projects, requires improvements in national legislation on the activities of organs and institutions. Such an act is proposed for your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Enforcement Service, which is developed by scientists, practitioners of the criminal enforcement system and the involvement of interested ministries and authorities. The draft law defines the legal status, tasks, functions and legal principles of the organization and activities of the State Enforcement Service. It has accumulated domestic experience and recommendations from world institutions, European institutions, non-governmental organizations, related to the functioning of the criminal enforcement system, the legal, social protection of its personnel, as well as a number of new norms that will fill existing gaps in the legal regulation of the organization and the work of the organs and the administration of penalties. The bill consists of six chapters, which contain 26 articles, 28 articles. It defines basic tasks, legal principles, principles and organization of activities, the general structure of the State Enforcement Service, its mandate, the mechanism of interaction with State authorities and local self-government, the principles of international cooperation in the field of the execution of criminal penalties, the bill defines the criminal enforcement system and its components as a whole. The bill also regulates the issue of monitoring the activities of organs and the enforcement agencies. In view of the need to eliminate compulsory treatment from chronic alcoholism in the LTP, which contradicts Ukraine’s commitment to comply with international human rights standards and the Constitution of Ukraine, it is determined by the final provisions of the bill that the medical and labour professions and enterprises of these institutions operate in the criminal enforcement system for a period of legislative settlement of the treatment issues of the categories of persons. The introduction of the Ukrainian Act on State Enforcement of Penalties does not require additional costs. The funding of the State Enforcement Service will be carried out within the limits of the expenditure allocated to the Ukrainian State Budget for the maintenance of the criminal enforcement system. The adoption of this law will be a very important step towards improving the legislative framework for the activities of organs and institutions of execution, will be an objective prerequisite for deepening reform, raising the level of the State enforcement service, and will provide a social reorientation of its activities to quality new work, taking into account international experience, the principles of humanism, the rule of law, democracy, justice, differentiated individual influence on the convicts. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on the Legislative Enforcement of the Law Enforcement Authorities support the bill and conclude that it can be accepted as a basis in the first reading. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Please put a name list on the board. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u188	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, this bill is certainly to be supported. Please tell me, should appropriate amendments be made to the Law on Local Self-Government, it is meant that some place on our committee was subject to such a bill, amending the Law on Local Self-Government, in that they would control and observe the execution of these persons' punishments at work?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u189	This bill does not need to be amended by the Law on Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u191	Solidarity, the Party of Fatherland Defenders, Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, I am certainly glad that this law will finally be done, and so we will complete the reform of this legislation. As I studied this bill carefully, I did not see it indicate that the State Department of Ukraine is establishing a public enforcement service on the basis of the execution of sentences. I did not see it established that the State Enforcement Service was a successor to the Ukrainian Department of State for the execution of punishments in respect of its rights, obligations and obligations. I also didn't see how that would be in the context of those budget events, the underfunding and the job provision of the special contingent. I'd like to hear the answer to that question right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u192	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. Indeed, the questions you raised are right. And I would like to point out that the adoption of this law is the basis for further steps towards reforming the system. He goes in a package with other laws, including the Criminal Enforcement Code. And when these two laws are passed in general, these are the issues that you're talking about, they're going to be solved in a complex. We have 134 and 12 agricultural enterprises, only 146. These enterprises, they are designed to ensure the involvement of convicted persons in socially beneficial work, as opposed to national enterprises, which aim to earn more income. We've got a target that doesn't matter. The main thing is to ensure that the condemned are able to support themselves and be able to acquire a specialty for subsequent adaptation in society after liberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u193	Sergey Drogunzov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u194	Volodymyr Anatolyevich, please tell me, what percentage of those convicted in your institutions are involved in the work? That's the first question. The other one. How much money does it cost to have one convicted person in your institutions each year? And the third. Are you satisfied with the authority to carry out the punishments provided for by this law, such as the right to initiate permanent release or the insignificance of the convicted person in these special institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u195	Thank you for asking. So it's about authority. In this law, those responsibilities that are prescribed are sufficient for the ministry to act effectively. Second, regarding the value of keeping the condemned. On average, keeping a convicted person dependent on who he is costs the state up to 120 dollars a month. The next question is regarding the employment of convicts. We now have 75 percent of our standards in institutions of execution and punishment from investigative isolation. Well, to compare it, in Russia, it's 40 percent, and in countries, let's say, far out. Far off, this percentage is even lower. Well, that's enough to satisfy us completely, because we think that all those convicted except the sick, the disabled, have to work to compensate for their maintenance and pay for the alleged victims of crime. And we do this work with the help of the government, with the help of local governments, we run the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u196	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u197	Dear Vladimir Anatoliyovich, it is known that the new system of things also requires the training of the appropriate personnel. In the West, there has been some experience in the formation of professionals who not only know the basics but also teachers, sociology, medicine, and so forth. Is the bill currently under consideration the need to form such professionals, because without it any system is doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u198	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that the reform of the criminal justice system in Ukraine has been going on for 11 years. It began with the Cabinet of Ministers' decision and in this decision, in this concept, one of these main directions of reforming the system we have put in place to prepare the personnel that are qualified for this system. [[88 From July 1991]] For that we have, we have created, we have prepared all this for us before, Russia, now in Ukraine we have created our own base. We have two primary schools for the younger primary staff. We have a high school in Chernigov for professionals. Kharkiv Law Academy Jaroslav the Wise, we made a deal, she prepares 100 lawyers for us, prepares highly qualified, 100 lawyers for the system. This year I signed a deal with the Rector of Kharkiv University. They're starting to prepare for us, before the Kyiv Institute of Internal Affairs, now the University of Kharkiv will be preparing 25 psychologists a group, and the following year, 30 social workers. We're in these teaching programs and in those subjects that we're studying, we're in charge, so to speak, of teaching, of psychology, of communication skills. We've given up excess, so to speak, militaryization, militarization, in return, we're studying international standards of human rights. And the experts from the Council of Europe who did the study, by the way, we have a joint program with them on this issue, and they've responded with approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u199	Thank you. Time's up. For the co-report, please National Deputy Sergei Anatoliyovich Ivanov. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u200	Deputies! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft law on the State Enforcement Service. The bill provides for the definition of the status of the State enforcement service, its structure, powers, functions and tasks, the legal principles of the organization and the principles of activity, the subordination of the service and the mechanism of its interaction with the authorities of the State and local self-government, the principles of international cooperation in the field of the execution of criminal penalties, the legal status and social protection of personnel, the requirements of staff and its responsibility, the order of financing and material security and the legal regime of the property of the service. Considering that the bill is aimed at further developing a legal basis for the State Department of Ukraine to carry out penalties for the implementation of a single state policy in the field of criminal punishment, the Committee on Law Enforcement decided to approve the bill and submit it to the Supreme Council on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a coconspirator? If so, write it down so that no charges can be made. Light up on the board. Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u202	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I asked Vladimir Anatolyevich, he didn't answer me. Sergey Anatolyevich, here's a question for you. Since interaction is not a mere verbal interaction, and this is the implementation of some regulations that will be adopted by law, please tell us, do you not need to make appropriate changes to the Law on Local Self-Government? I mean, local budgets will have to be allocated to ensure that local self-government authorities perform the functions that will be laid down by this law. Does it not provide for such a procedure regarding the Law on Local Self - Rule in the future? Because then this is going to affect the local budgets. Today they say: "No money needed." And tomorrow, they're going to give us directions to predict these costs in the local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u203	Excuse me, I'll give you an answer in Russian. The fact is that the law makes it very clear that the source of funding is primarily budget money, the second is money that will earn the system itself, and the third is money that can, not necessarily, but can, be financed by local authorities. This is the term laid down in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u204	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u205	People's Deputy Bulba, Socialist faction. I have this question, they said before, an army is a school, after which, in principle, the doors of many institutions, including state and educational institutions, and so on. It looks like we've got a zone like this right now, and we're already raising even the heads of government. You think maybe after that you don't have to make any changes, even if Ljovczyn is still raising us, maybe the president. So this is about whether there should be, really, some fundamental changes, maybe they don't need them?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u206	Thank you. All these changes are primarily related to the fact that the Department was previously under the Ministry of the Interior. It's coming out today. There was a need for a basic law. As for whom, how, and where, let history judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u207	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Let's move on to the draft law. The word is Carmazin Yuri, the faction of "Our Ukraine", to prepare for the Overriding.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine. Of course, the fact that the legal status, structure and order of the enforcement bodies are legally established is positive. I've already asked myself that I see the negative in this bill. What should be noted is that the State Department has established a public service, and it must be recorded that it inherits rights and duties. We certainly need to bring this bill into line with other laws. In particular, the project sets a probationary deadline of up to one year when employees are hired. This position is not consistent with the Labour Code, which states that the term of the test cannot exceed three months, and in some cases, by agreeing with the relevant union committee of six months, the term of the test of workers cannot exceed one month. [[This is article 18th.]] We need to reconcile this, or we're doing an unconstitutional thing today. Next. I believe that the bill should remove such things as references to certain separate approvals by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In general, I think it's going to be very difficult for the Department of Execution today, because the government is in general instigated by the terminology that has gone from your department, in particular, to the government meeting to call it not a government meeting, but, in other words, a similar type and so forth. So I would suggest that we exclude from article 7 that the marginal number of employees of the central apparatus is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to suggest from article 12 that we delete that the position on criminal inspection is confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And in general, this law can be adopted. Why can this be removed? Because we have the Law on the Common Structure and Number of Criminal Enforcement Services of Ukraine. And that law is enough. Another time I pay as a debt, Mr. Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u209	National Deputy Vasil Nadrag, People's Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! In general, I have a positive appreciation for this bill, but first reading, so little time, and if you'll excuse me, in detail. First. I agree with the questions that have just been answered by a colleague, but there are also suggestions. Article 1 of the bill does not define an enterprise, an institution for the execution of sentences. Lack of terminology is an opportunity to maneuver somehow, but I think it's appropriate for the law to write something unanimous. Next. The list of article 10, paragraph 6, provides that enterprises in the penal system must be able to account for income earned for special funds, which is a contradiction. Contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for Governmental Authorities, under which government authorities are prohibited from creating non-budgetary funds, to have non-budgetary special accounts. [[Article 3]] Next. The bill states that the State Enforcement Service enterprises are given the advantage of engaging in specific types of work, services and supplies of goods for public purposes, which do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Business Act, which states that the law creates a level playing field for enterprises irrespective of the form of property and the organizational form of the enterprise. [[paragraph 7, article 10]] Next. Paragraph 9 of article 10 of the draft law provides that the State Enforcement Service does not extend the operation of article 1, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on Businesses in Ukraine, which provides that an enterprise is a legal person. In such a case, the bill does not recognize the legal status of enterprises and conflicts with article 10, paragraph 2, of the same bill, where the establishments of enforcement are legal persons. Next. The bill recognizes that the State Enforcement Service can only receive material assistance from a certain category of institutions. [[Article 13, paragraph 4]] This restriction, I believe, deprives the State Service of the possibility of execution, of receiving material assistance from other legal and physical persons. And the last. The citizens of Ukraine are scheduled to receive it from the state’s housing fund. In view of the fact that article 26, paragraph 2, of the bill provides for a guarantee under which the family of a deceased employee of the State retains the right to receive a residence, which is granted in turn to private property within three months of the day of the death of a person. The transfer to housing in this case is not a legal terminology, so I think it is appropriate to state that housing is provided by the State Housing Fund with the possibility of its privatisation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-10-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! Thank you, too. The draft law, the review of the draft Law on the State Enforcement Service, has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, you were given a survey of the Ukrainian National Deputy during the morning's registration. The survey is organized by the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the decision of the working group to prepare for the closed session on the implementation of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you, honorary colleagues, to return the completed questionnaires today to the registration tables no later than 16 hours. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to check with all the MPs for their polls. This is essential to optimize our further work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
