ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn the system on. People's deputies please register. There are 321 national deputies registered in the hall. Please give me information on the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. We continue to consider the issues that are set before the creation of the Supreme Council committees. Before I move to the agenda, I would like to announce that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy head Sergei Petrovich. Let us welcome him on his birthday and wish him creative and political longevity in good health. [[Applause]] Let me make an announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and the decision of the Ukrainian deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the expulsion, as well as of the withdrawal from the parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" of Ukraine's national deputies, Bondarchuk Sergija Vasilovich, Burjak Alexander Vasilovich, Galijeva Ernesta Eduardoovich, Long Taras Aleksijovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihailovich, Štrbanje Vladimir Petrovic, Jaroslavska Oleksija Vladilenović. [[Protocol 5 of 28 May 2002]] [[Applause]] Next announcement. In view of the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and his deputies are not part of any parliamentary faction, I report the withdrawal from the faction of the "One Ukraine" of the national deputies of Ukraine-Litvina Vladimir Mihajlovich and Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich and from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine-Zinchenka Alexander Alexiyyovich. [[Article 4(4) of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[united]] In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations, I inform you that the following national deputies are hereby authorized to represent the deputy faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine: Andreszuk Boris Pavlovich, Necíporak Vladimir Pavlovich, and Shepetin Vladimir Leonidovic. [[united]] Dear National Deputies! Today, according to the agenda, we were to hear a message from the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to be able to present a statement to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, roadside Alexander Viktorovich. [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u2	Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[electoral district 213, Kiev]] Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, after the speech, a word of procedure will be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the following letter: "In connection with my participation in the pre-planned international action on 29 May 2002, I ask that the deadline for submitting the President's letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external status in 2001 be postponed. With respect, President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. 28 May 2002" [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich. I think we'll accept the President's request. [[B in m in s a l in]] One moment, please, out of the procedure. The Communist faction gives the floor to the national deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! At the very beginning of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council, we confirmed the order of the day, in which everything was clearly written down. We agreed with the statement that the President had already made to the Supreme Council that he would address the Supreme Council after the decision had been taken on the issue of the election of the Supreme Council leadership, that is, we had already made concessions to the President. Now we decide to do it the second time. How long is this going to take? The most pressing internal problems facing our country today are less important than the ones it is dealing with. And another thing: on what grounds, Your Honor Chairman, did you now give the floor to the representative of President Zadrodzny from this rostrum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u7	Thank you. People's MP Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u8	Ukrainian national deputy (rich-mandatory) State-wide constituency, SPO. The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Our faction was deeply concerned about the fate of the governors who suddenly disappeared from our hall. Have they had normal health since last night’s celebration? And isn't it also related to the President's inability to come to the Supreme Council today just with your coat of arms that happened yesterday? Question two: as long as the President treats the public-elected body with contempt? Not only did he personally not welcome the Supreme Council of Ukraine but he did not send his telegram to congratulate him. Not only did he send the worst representative of "the only Ukraine" to be a speaker as a fact of contempt for the Supreme Council, but he did not show up again today in the Supreme Council. To what extent will you abuse the national will? [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u9	Thank you. Any more procedural questions? Ladies and gentlemen, I offer information from the National Deputy of Ukraine of the Road, the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to take note of and move to the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voices from the hall. No, answer the question.]] This must be a change in order of the day, and she's voting. You must put to the vote the question of making changes to the agenda. You had the night to study the Rules. Please act by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce the decision of the Communist Party's deputy faction. "According to article 4.2.2, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Communist Party of Ukraine's Communist Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports expulsions from the faction of Potok Mikhail Alexiyyovich. The leader of the Simonenko faction." [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Today it is suggested that we consider the question of choice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u11	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you need to calm down. I'm asking for your attention! I understand that you're in a bit of an unusual state right now, but every session of Parliament on working days, this is provided by the Rules, starts with an hour of so-called separation, when they have the right to speak to factions, individual deputies, committee heads with those reports that they provide for their programs and perform their functions. That's the first one. And the second. We have concluded one question, we have chosen Parliament's leadership. So to say that we're in the process of dealing with one question, you can't. So now we have to take the time to make statements and actually make statements from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! The word from the procedure is asked by the national MP Medvedchuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u13	Ukrainian national deputy (mandatory national constituency, SDPU(o)). The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States). Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Alexandre Alexandrovich, do not mislead the leadership of the Supreme Council and the people’s deputies. Under normal circumstances Tuesday, representatives of MPs and factions have the right to speak, and on Wednesday, they have the right to speak. Under normal circumstances. We are now working under different conditions, on a daily basis, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on organizational matters. So, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I invite you, as chairman of the session, to announce the next question -- the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads -- and to move forward with the order of the day that we approved by decree (Applause).
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to calm down. By procedure, the National Deputy of Cibenko is asking for the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u15	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear Chairman! I understand you're the opening director. It's from the President's Administration that you could say, "I've decided so, and it will be so." In Parliament, there are usually other motives. The faction therefore insists that the vote be put to the question of changing the order of the Supreme Council of the day. So today it has been said that today the President cannot address the Supreme Council. We have to figure out if it's going to be 5, whether it's going to be 8 or 10, or whether it's going to be a break. So the point is that today we have to make a change to the agenda, and more specifically, to determine the day when the President will speak here in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u16	Thank you. Since there are so many who wish to speak out on procedural matters, I ask the national deputies to sign up. Turn on the "Race" system. Please sign up. Please explain the results. National deputy of Ukraine Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u17	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Dear Victor Medvedchuk! You are absolutely right in accordance with the Rules to request that a sitting be held in an approved order of the day. I would like to remind you that the address of the President of Ukraine is now in the agenda. This question is not closed. We've heard the president's information in this room, now we need to discuss this information and decide whether to change the approved agenda or to confirm our decision. That's the first one. The other one. There's always been practice, it's been done before, at least when the President's report was given in advance so that the national MPs can get to know her. That is why I view this as contempt for Parliament, not as any other issue related to the President’s failure to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u18	Thank you. The Kafarsky People’s Deputy. The next is the national MP Rudzkowski. Deputity. [[not introduced]] Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Deputies! As for the position that has now arisen with regard to the discussion of rules of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you so much for your respect for the woman. Please don't take this time, 42 seconds, into my performance. According to the Rules, we are today discussing the issue of the order of the day. We have information. Clearly, international meetings, such as those of the presidents of the nations, are always planned much earlier than even the meetings of the Supreme Council. Finally, yesterday, the Supreme Council was elected. In our previous call, it took us more than two months to plan our trip early, obviously, the President couldn't. Therefore, the suggestion is to take the information to the knowledge and move on to the next question of the order of the day. Considering that only 245 deputies have submitted applications, they have identified which committee they would like to work on, it would be advisable to take a break so that all deputies can submit statements according to the fractional quotas offered to us today by the Supreme Council's apparatus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u21	Thank you. National MP Rudzikowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u22	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u23	Please turn on the microphone of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandra Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! What Sergey Sobolev said is absolutely true. This is provided for in the Rules, and a change to the agenda should be voted on briefly. And since this is a requirement of the Rules, I believe that is to be ensured by you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The other one. Victor Medvedchuk knows the Rules well, and I know it, and everyone knows it, especially who remembers the winter of 2000. That statements and statements are foreseen on certain days, if this is the case under normal circumstances, is already recorded in the amended Rules. Today, however, conditions are unusual - Parliamentary leadership has been chosen. And from this point of view, it is up to the leaders, their colleagues, to the electorates to be represented by different political parties. So you have to take at least half an hour to perform from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. National Deputy Lukjanenko Levko Grigorović, Yulia Block Timoshenko Please turn on the microphone of the Lukyanenka People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u26	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Before the election of the Supreme Council, we were moving in extraordinary situations, these were extremely extraordinary situations, all of which were broken: morality, rule of law, order. But finally, we have guidance. Since the first period of emergency in the Supreme Council has ended, it is only natural to allow the factions to speak now and also allow the deputies to speak for at least 30 minutes to assess what has happened since May 14th to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u27	Thank you. National MP Mishur, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u28	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Mr. Chairman, I'll give the floor to Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek, but I want to say that Kafarsky is the deputy head of the Counting Commission, he's sick. And if someone uses his card, that's the first signal that "the only Ukraine" uses someone else's cards. Please pass the word to Simonek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u29	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of Ukrainian national deputy Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u30	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially I would like to address the representatives of the mixed or assembled faction, or the one-Ukrainian faction. I would like to remind you that during your participation in the last two years, there has been a coup d'état in the Supreme Council. With the participation of the leaders of those factions or political parties that brought you together, in the winter of 2000, there was an upheaval that we already know about. Whoever was at the head of the coup will tell the story. Perhaps after the coups from one chair they moved to another and took office in certain political or legislative structures in the state. I'd still like to warn you: think about what's going on right now. There is a terrible phenomenon: you have privatized the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a criminal capital. And we all witnessed what you did to the Supreme Council. I think in a month or two you'll be eating what you've cooked. You'll have to be responsible for everything that's going on in Ukraine. I'm talking to the chairman, there's the Rules, there's the agenda. There is a question, and as chairman, no one has given you the right - neither the Rules nor the Supreme Council to change the agenda for today. Please put a question to the vote. If it does not pass, then announce a recess, find out when the President will be here and be able to speak, and we will continue to consider the order of the day. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're in a difficult situation right now. Now, you go to the Supreme Council and ask for two days to take a break to study the Rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u31	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, for the recommendation. I think we're going to do it together and we're going to do it. The word has the national deputy of Ukraine, Orobec. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u32	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 222, Kiev]] Dear colleagues, in all parts of the world, after the election of Parliament, the government has the privilege of speaking out of the highest rostrum. We're being ignored. It is not only to the highest authority of the State but also to the electorates who have delegated their representatives to Parliament. The logical question is: Why did the President of Ukraine today refuse to attend the Supreme Council? In my opinion, the President of Ukraine is simply ashamed of the fact of the blackmail, the bribery of the national MPs who have won the Speaker's place. I don't think he's going to be able to come to this rostrum unconsciously, because he's going to feel all the condemnation and shame of Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to follow the rules. From the procedure, please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u34	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Dear colleagues, I think we have taken too much time to discuss a very clear procedural issue that requires a vote, first of all, if we are changing the agenda, and this is determined by our Rules. And secondly, we've already entered the normal stage of our work. And today, there must be some time for the representations of the deputies by the record. But I think we can do a full-time speech today, because today is the first day that we can make statements from factions. I would hate for this tradition to be interrupted by the election of the new Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. Generally, the proposals focus on two procedural issues. First. To vote on the definition of another term for the President's statement with a letter to the Supreme Council. And the second. Take 30 minutes for speeches, statements, phone calls from factions and national deputies. If you don't mind, we could stop the speeches and vote on these two questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, I'm asking you, is there an insistence on coming up with procedural issues from factions? People's MP Tihypco insists. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Tihypak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u36	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] The "One Ukraine" faction, the "Hard Ukraine" party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have seen today that the President will not be able to come because an international meeting will come before us. I have this offer. Since the next question needs further consultations, I think we could have the Chief of the Supreme Council negotiate with the President today and determine when the President will be with us and let us know. But at the same time, we could consult each other about the distribution of committees. So I have an offer to announce a recess by Tuesday, to consult six factions, and then to work productively and agree with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u37	Thank you. By procedure, Paul Mokchan. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u38	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] He gives me his word. Please turn on my microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u39	Please turn on the microphone of the people's representative of the Red Army.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor! Accept my sympathy for such difficult initial moments in your new job. I would like to say that this second question that you want to announce and put to the vote as a procedural one is not procedural. The right to speak from factions and individual deputies has long been established in Parliament, this right won over many years of democratic work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and so your attempt to put this question into procedural order so that we can each win this right for ourselves is illegal. I understand that statements by individual factions may be grading that are unpleasant to your ears and to your "patron" ears, but please take your courage and listen to them. Not only will this statement be made to you, but it will be made for the entire Ukrainian society. So I urge you not to overstep the right laid down in the Rules. This right has been granted to the Supreme Council not by you or by you to cancel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u41	Thank you. The procedure requires the words of the national deputy, Matthew. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u42	The Communist faction. First of all, my dear colleagues and chairman, I would like to ask the faction, on behalf of the faction, to answer one of the main questions of the organization of our work. Is there direct radiation now? If it is, which channel is it? That's the first one. The other one. Trying to narrow it down to questions that have been raised by the national MPs, as you understand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, will not lead to anything positive. That's why we insist that you put forward a motion for time to speak with the President of Ukraine for a vote. Then, perhaps, there will be an opportunity and a topic for exchange of thoughts and statements by factions. Therefore, after this resolution, the vote will give 30 minutes to speak from factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u43	We found out, thank you, the radio broadcast is happening on Radio Rocks. A word from the procedure is requested by the National MP, Mr. Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich. Please turn on the microphone. And after that, I propose to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Sergey Tihypco was not exactly accurate here, because the president's work regime under the protocol is determined by the President himself and his administration, not by the guests who come from abroad. [[And you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, know better than anyone.]] They adapt to this need of the President. And if there is a statement by the President today with a public message, any diplomat would consider it an honour to ask to be present on this occasion. And notice, we don't have any representatives of the structures that should be involved in this action. Clearly, you would ask the Parliament to be able to find out the situation and then provide objective information about when the president will speak. We don't have to take breaks until Tuesday, because we understand what we have to do. Take half an hour for statements from factions and proceed to the procedure defined by the Rules. Because all the deputies in accordance with the decision of the Preparatory Group have already written their statements of willingness to work on the committee. So the question has already been clarified. What's more, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the kind of resentment that you're going to have to hear here -- I know from your experience -- you're going to listen to them anyway, so it's better to do it from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the factions will come from the factions. Practically all the factions in procedural matters spoke. In fact, there are two suggestions: first, to inform why the President is absent today and to decide on the time and date of the President's statement with the letter, and second, to determine how to take 30 minutes to make statements with statements, reports from factions. Dear people's deputies, the last of the procedural issues is the People's Chamber of the Klukkowski faction of our Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u46	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. First of all, I want to make a point to the presiding officer, who gives the floor only to those deputies he knows in his face. I think it's a bad start. Maybe we should study the photos. The other one. I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure require a decision, not a procedural one, but a vote of 226. So if we're tossing agenda issues, we need to draft a decision to change the agenda, make it, give it to the deputies, discuss it and put it to a vote. As long as there is no such decision, we must keep the order of the day. If there is no possibility for objective reasons - if the President has given priority to meeting with Lukashenko instead of being in the Supreme Council of Ukraine - then a recess should be announced until we can discuss the draft decree. There can be no other rule, our Supreme Council is operating in the Ukrainian legislative field. Therefore, I ask you very much not to allow any violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your constructive suggestions to the People's Deputies of Klukkowski and other people's deputies who have made their proposals. I would like to inform you that the meeting in Montenegro with the President of the Republic of Belarus was scheduled by the President of Ukraine in advance and that it was not known when a decision would be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous issue. Since this meeting could not be postponed, the President of Ukraine wrote to the Supreme Council asking him to move his speech to another time. If there is a need to vote on this, let us vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since there were suggestions that a draft Supreme Council ruling should be made on this issue, I would ask you to do so. And then we're going to look at this in the right order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable national MPs, since we found out with the first question. [[B in m in s a l in]] We ask the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to clarify the time and then make appropriate proposals. The second suggestion was to take 30 minutes today to make speeches, statements, and messages to the national MPs. Let's figure out, because today we're working according to the agenda, and by the Rules there are 30 minutes on Wednesday, so I'm asking the people's deputies to determine by voting on this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, what are your suggestions? What's your offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Well, there are no suggestions. We have to finish the first question and then move on to the second question. Right? Dear National Deputies! We're talking in principle about the same things: now the Supreme Council is tasking us to prepare and draft a decree amending the agenda that the President is unable to deliver today's message. Is there a need to vote for such a proposal? Dear National Deputies! Since you don't need to vote, you're going to have to hand over the verdicts, and we're going to prepare and submit this document for your consideration. Deal? Dear National Deputies! So let's figure out what we're going to do next. According to the order of the day, we should consider issues related to the committees of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] However, there is an offer from factions to take 30 minutes for speeches, statements, and messages. So let's figure this out. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We come from the fact that according to the Rules we can take 30 minutes to announce statements, messages and speeches. Please determine the order in which we're going to make these statements, statements. There's an offer -- only from factions. Do we have a deal? Is there no objection? Moroz Alexander Alexander -- from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please prepare the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u48	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, first of all, I join Basil Redney's words. I feel for you now, it's true. I mean, honestly, even if I'm in a different mood, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Here, jokingly, colleagues offer. We have a few heads of Parliament sitting in the hall, so let's organize sessions, but now the courses are all paid, keep in mind. So let's see what you can do with that. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a joke. And a statement from a faction of that meaning. "On May 28th, the next campaign of the regime came to an end in the direction of usurpation of power. Contrary to the will of the people, representatives of political forces have been brought to Parliament’s leadership and supported by less than a fifth of the citizens in the elections. Rape, threats, bribery, and treachery have led people to win. A perfect image of authority in the Ukrainian State, where people with an unclean conscience are at the head of its branches. The Socialist faction in Parliament, with its programme and its commitment to the electorate, will stand up for it by taking advantage of all the possibilities offered by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the Rules of Parliament. We understand that the full realization of our purposes is only possible when the system of power changes. Our efforts in this direction will be energetic and consistent. The faction claims to move to the parliamentary opposition to the majority organized yesterday, and invites duly tuned deputies from other factions to cooperate." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" is given by the national deputy Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich. Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u50	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Dear National Deputies! For ethical reasons, I must at the beginning of my speech welcome the elected presidency and authority, the "For Jedu!"the faction of SDPU, with the convincing killing that took place yesterday in relation to the position, honour and dignity of some of the national MPs who are sitting in this room. In fact, it was your victory. [[Applause]] I have a heartache about what's going on. And I'm convinced that now the heart is stammering in millions of Ukrainians from what happened yesterday in this room. I will pray that he will send to those who did so a sense of responsibility that they put on themselves yesterday. God forbid they'd understand that. Yesterday the country lost, yesterday it lost morale, yesterday it lost democracy. Dear National Deputies! Let me make a formal statement to the faction of Ukraine. "Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! On May 28, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was appointed. The Head’s election procedure was replaced by the forceful imposition of the “three. ” Under pressure, blackmail, bribery, and threats, the authorities were able to run a single legislative body. The administrative resources, which were used cynically during the parliamentary elections, were used brutally yesterday and in the walls of Parliament. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has actually become a unit of the Presidential Administration. Yesterday, people came to the governing body of Parliament to represent the outsiders of the electoral campaign. In spite of the intense pressure and totalitarian misinformation in the media in March 2002, voters were given an assessment of these structures. But yesterday’s events again demonstrated that the authorities in Ukraine do not count on the choice of citizens. Today, I apologize to those 6 million 188,000 voters for not being able to protect democracy. And I'm sorry that the seven Ukrainian national deputies who came to Parliament for the list of "Our Ukraine" or for the support of our bloc in major districts proved unworthy of their electorate. Yesterday, seven people betrayed the electorate, betrayed all of us. "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of excluding them from the faction. We have cleansed our ranks of unstable people who have not endured the first political test. At the same time, I would like to thank those one hundred and twelve brothers who have endured the faction's stand despite threats, blackmails and numerous tests, who have not supported the abuse and choice of the Ukrainian people. We warn the authorities -- we'll protect our supporters. We can't defend ourselves -- we'll call for help from the Ukrainian people. On Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a new leadership, which means that two political forces and the holding companies -- "To Yedu!" and SDPU(o) actually usurped power in Ukraine, took full responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. In the hands of these political forces, Parliamentary leadership, government, local authorities, and they were officially supported by the President." The rest of the official part of our statement will be placed in the media. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u51	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Communist Party’s national deputy has the floor for speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u52	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Dear colleagues! I do not think that the leadership of the Supreme Council appointed yesterday can ensure the normal functioning of Parliament, and that is why. I'm not going to talk about how they bought and bought votes. This is understandable, there is no other possibility under the current regime. I will not say that since yesterday, there is simply no need to talk about the separation of power in Ukraine. That's understandable. I will not say that two political groups, for which only 20 per cent of the population of Ukraine voted, took the lead of the Supreme Council. I will not say that Mr. Litwin has set an absolute record: in the first second of his tenure as President of the Supreme Council, he has violated the Rules. Yesterday, he was not right to speak, and the meeting time was up. That's not what I'm talking about. I'll tell you about a friend. I'm an MP for the third call. I had to hear many candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council. And all of them, more skillfully, were less skilled in trying to show their tolerance. Someone was lying, someone was honest, but it was. Mr. Litwin has issued a confrontation. And that's scary. Even the terminology was used all the time by the military. I was scared when I listened to the Lermontov quotes. I cannot imagine him as the President of the Supreme Council. The head of the Landscenecht task force can: at six o'clock, pick up, then breakfast, send out the needs, then from eight to sixteen -- rob the civilian population of the conquered country, then rest. And within the framework of the President of the Supreme Council, I cannot. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich is so fond of Borodino Lermontova. When I looked at all these applause yesterday, at all this joy, I also remembered the Lermontovs: "and it was heard before dawn, as the French rejoiced." Once the gloating's over, we all know it's the old Smolen Road. [[Laughter, applause]] God give it to the Supreme Council, not to Ukraine as a whole. And the last. On behalf of the faction, I propose to declare a minute of silence on democracy in Ukraine and to establish the Constitution, which is enshrined here, until constitutional order is restored. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement from Julia Timoshenko's block? None. Dear National Deputies! The "One Ukraine" faction and the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine did not take advantage of their right to speak. [[united]] So let's move on to the next one. Ah, Julia Volodymyrically, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u54	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, what are you doing right now? You can't do that. We are in mourning, but we have pride. Dear friends! I want to say that yesterday, of course, the joy on the faces of a group of people in Parliament was noticeable. But it's not a joy, because it's a complete loss, and you lose because our Ukraine was given a three-way yesterday: Kuchma President, Kuchma Prime Minister and Kuchma Speaker of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] And in fact, the responsibility for everything that's going on in Ukraine is clearly closing in on Leonida Kuchma and his environment, because you can't even call it a team. [[And even "For Ukraine's One!"by casual encounters with people in the districts, she saw how difficult it is to live today]] And I would like us, knowing how power works, to share the responsibility of what happened yesterday, because you and I had a chance for two weeks, and we have to admit it. We need to draw conclusions from this, because if we put our trust in power now, we will continue to be hostages and leaders in this process. So our part of the responsibility is on our shoulders. Our glazing, our disagreements, our two-plan policies, when they tried to act on several fronts, led to the artificial or artificial formation of the authorities over the past two weeks. We didn't know who we were on the lists, we didn't know what kind of means the authorities were working with, we didn't know how they were going to abuse the deputies? We knew all this. And that's why our responsibility is. But now the question is, what do we do? This is what we need to focus on. The first thing I'm offering. To recognize and conclude that this is not legitimate leadership by the Supreme Council, because it has not been chosen on the basis of honest, democratic, transparent policies and does not rely on the trust of people. So we must now initiate a process that will put everything in place, that is, initiate a signature assembly to respond to this leadership of the Supreme Council. The other one. We have to work very clearly on the committees now. We have a chance not to lose leadership at least on the committees. And that is our goal today. I'm going to call four and four non-fractional deputies: 222 today we have four non-fractionals. We have the opportunity to do this, not to lose that chance. And the third thing I'd like to suggest. If we fail to change the proportions of leadership, it is certainly not possible for the authorities to wait for the proper work of the Ukrainian State without a reasonable distribution of authority. And so if we can't do that, I urge the "four" to raise people to public disobedience to these actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u55	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically. Dear National Deputies! The "One Ukraine" faction and the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine did not take advantage of their right to speak or claim. [[united]] So let's move on to the next question: picking heads and first deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We're moving according to the order of the day. The question is yes. Make an offer. Dear National Deputies! We need to make a draft decree. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's exchange thoughts with the procedure. People's MP Matthews. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u56	The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I would like to remind you that, following your signature as Head of the President's Administration, a letter was sent that we should move the statement with the President's annual letter to a later date. We were looking at this in the Preparatory Group. So today it is a matter of voting that we make changes to the order of the day that we have approved. [[We remind you again.]] You are obliged to prepare a draft of such a decision at the time of the faction’s statement. If the apparatus has not been able to prepare such a project in this time period, you cannot do so, then announce a recess in order for such a draft decision to be prepared and we will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u57	Thank you. Who will be speaking from the faction of "Our Ukraine" on procedural matters? People's MP Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u58	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 120, Lviv region]] Thank you. "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In fact, you're contradicting yourself because half an hour ago you were commissioned to prepare a draft decree that we should consider and vote after the faction statements have been announced. But that was not done. So I propose that this draft decision be prepared and given to the deputies so that we can vote on it. If he is not there, I support the deputy of Matthew: let us call a recess and then act in accordance with our Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u59	Thank you. Who will come forward with procedural questions from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine? National MP Rudzkowski. Please. Turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now probably no draft decree is going to win 226 votes. Would it not be appropriate for you to contact Leonid Danilovich, inform him that the Supreme Council requires his statement in accordance with the Rules today, and in half an hour inform the Supreme Council of the position of the President and then move on? Then we will understand, respect the President of Ukraine of the Supreme Council or take the position that was and in relation to the Supreme Council of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u61	Thank you. From the faction "The One Ukraine" is the national deputy of Zarubinsky. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u62	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I thought all the suggestions on the right, on the left, on the center, were basically very similar. The MPs want to find out, first, when the President of Ukraine's speech is coming, and secondly, everyone thinks about how committees will be divided, who will join what committee, and so on. I want to remind you once again that for some reason, only 245 deputies out of 447 have applied for membership in a committee. [[Maybe they didn't hear what my colleague Suprun said.]] I suggest you do it this way and put two things together. First. A representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Alexander Zadrodzny, to find out possible ones that fit the Supreme Council, the time and date of the speech in the Parliament of the President of Ukraine. The other one. Ask the national deputies for this break, which may continue, provided that by 10 a.m. tomorrow, they immediately submit their proposals on what committees they want to work on. So we could actually find a compromise on two issues of the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u63	Thank you. People's Deputies are on the road. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of the Roadway.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I tried to contact Chernigu, but now the meeting of the presidents of Ukraine and Belarus began. I have an offer that comes out of a general agreement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have determined the order of work by a decree which provides for the President's letter. The next issue is the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads. As far as I know, there is no draft decision to provide for the election of committee heads and the first deputy committee heads at the secretariat. [[I just checked with the secretary.]] So there is a real opportunity to resolve this situation by agreeing that the next meeting of the Supreme Council, in agreement with the President of Ukraine, will begin with a letter from the President of Ukraine, to take a break until the next meeting, but to use this break to hold consultations on the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads. And in order to start a discussion of this issue, because the preparatory working group has been working, but not yet elected, to give the floor to the national deputy Karpov, who would inform about what was done in the working group. Then you can take a break and start the next session by listening to the message and by choosing the heads and first deputies of the committee heads if appropriate agreed proposals are prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u65	From the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the national deputy Lukyanenko. Please turn on the microphone of the Lukyanenka People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u66	The Julia Timoshenko faction. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. The roadkeeper made a very reasonable suggestion about our program of activity. I support him. Indeed, we need to take a break now so that the factions can consult and determine for themselves regarding future committees and their heads. After discussion in factions, we need to allow factions to meet and resolve the rest of the issues. I think we're going to have to spend the rest of the day on that. Tomorrow I will begin my work by listening to the report and suggestions that will be made by the factions’ leaders on the basis of the discussion. But, of course, tomorrow should begin at all by listening to the Presidential message.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u67	Thank you. An address from the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Please turn on the microphone of the Medvedchuk People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you and the national deputies who do not beat themselves in the chest, who respect each elected national MP and their right to choose. I think those who shed so much tears today because of what happened yesterday should learn to lose. If they do, they will stop talking about the issue that is currently being discussed, because to refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the constitutional right of the President. This is not the Supreme Council's right to hear, and this is the President's right granted to him by the Constitution. We know from practice that the President is either speaking his own message or sending a written message. Hence, discussions are now about whether to contact Chernigu, to contact the President, and why an international meeting is taking place, why the President is not in the Supreme Council, all outside the Rules and beyond the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if not for yesterday’s events and not for yesterday’s victory over democratic forces, this question would not be discussed today. See? I am supported in this, and I am very grateful to my colleagues for their support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u69	Peter Mikolaiovich, do you have anything from the faction? Please turn on the microphone of National MP Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u70	Thank you. The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention and attention to the people's deputies who have just spoken, to the fact that it is the President's right to speak with a letter to the Supreme Council. We're not discussing the President's rights right now, nor are we meeting him. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let us respect the people’s deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u71	Excuse me, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u72	We're not discussing the President's rights with you right now. It's his right under the Constitution. We're discussing the agenda with you right now. I would like to draw your attention, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to the fact that, in implementing the President's right, you personally addressed the Supreme Council as head of the President's Administration with a request to change the agenda, to change the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council and to hear the President's speech after the election of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council then went to meet your address and the President. Today the Supreme Council has a well-established agenda, and it seems to me that you, by deliberately delaying this procedure, have begun to despise the national MPs, who do not require anything special from you. You are now required as chairman to comply with the Supreme Council Rules and the approved agenda. We have a question -- is this a report, say, a presidential statement to the Supreme Council? Please vote on the issue of changing the order of the day. And don't rape just the Supreme Council with procedural issues -- it's been a long time. Please don't violate the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u73	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I just want to say one thing: Honorable National MPs, I would ask you not to accuse me of violations that I have not yet committed. Last one. Regarding procedural issues, please identify yourself in factions. People's MP Mokchan. Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP. We agreed, your honor, that on procedural issues there would be one statement from the factions. That's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u74	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The "Our Ukraine" faction of Victor Yushchenka's block. Ukrainian People’s Movement Your Honor is presiding! Dear colleagues! I would like to answer Victor Vladimirovich Medvedchuk about transparency, honesty, the principles of democracy and all that was said. How much does that cost? Did you know yesterday morning how these actions rose at the end of the day at the moment of the vote? Don’t use these phrases, you know what these terms are worth. Now, let's talk about the proposals that are echoing here. We literally need to define today exactly the date and hour when the President will address Parliament, and consider, to the whole of society, the whole nation with his message. This needs to be voted on right now. If this is tomorrow, the road to Montenegro is short, the connection with President Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know very well how clear it is. You accept that, please, and now we're going to vote. That's it. And let's put a dot on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The draft decree has been prepared. We brought it in, I'll read it to you. You've commissioned the Presidium to prepare the project, we've prepared it. Dear National Deputies! Let me read out this draft decision. I'm asking the secretariat to reproduce and distribute a draft ruling as soon as possible. In view of the need to reproduce and familiarize national deputies with the draft decree, a 30 - minute break is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to invite you to the conference room. We're continuing our work. You have been given a draft Order No. 1114 amending the agenda of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call to the period prior to the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everyone familiar with this document? Since this issue has been discussed, let us proceed to the vote. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please make up your mind on this. "For" - 30. [[B in m in s a l in]] I got it. Dear National Deputies! Please explain the factions. Attention! Please. Let's move on to the next question: the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. For a report on this issue, please contact the Ukrainian National Deputy Karpov Alexandr Mikolayovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u77	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that when we consider the issue of the election of the heads and alternate heads of committees, the Supreme Council Committees have decided to approve the previous number of committees: 23 committees and a review committee. [[Unlike the proposals of the working group that proposed to approve the 27 committees and the control commission]] At the same time, the Supreme Council did not decide on the subject of committee knowledge, which is a requirement of the Committee Law. No normative decision has been made on the work of the Privatization Supervisory Commission. The Supreme Council also decided on the number of committees. The minimum composition of the committee should be ten national deputies, with a maximum of 25. To date, we have 236 statements by the National Deputies about membership of the Committees. At the meeting of the working group and then of the working group, we came up with the idea that procedures, mechanisms, principles, quotas and everything else should be in agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. Today, such approaches, principles, mechanisms, logic, and algorithms are not defined. As a result, I propose to announce a recess until tomorrow for consultations on the formation of a package of heads and first deputies of committee heads and mechanisms, the principles of the composition of steering committees and the committees themselves. In this regard, I repeat, take a break until tomorrow for consultations on this issue, and the Chief of the Supreme Council to gather now legitimately existing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Conciliation Council to discuss this issue, to consult and to work out proposals for specific discussion by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, two factions, the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, will be announced for a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're continuing our work. In accordance with the Rules, I would like to sign up for a question to the rapporteur. Five minutes is taken to ask questions. Please sign up, distinguished national MPs. Let me explain. The word has the national deputy of Ukraine Ckitishvili. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Tskitishvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u80	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 106, Lugansk region]] Deputies! It's the only Ukrainian faction. Please pass the word to Bandurke.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u81	The word has been given to the national deputy of Bandurka. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u82	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Election District 176, Kharkiv Region]] Dear colleagues! Dear Head! There are 443 deputies present today. To distribute them on committees, to identify positions of heads, substitutes, first intercessors -- this can be done as a result of the joint scrupulous work of faction leaders, representatives of MP groups who are inside factions. It would be appropriate to take a break until Tuesday, not to waste time, sit down and take the head in the hands of centrists, left, right, the entire MP community, and prepare questions about committee formation regardless of who voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Alexander Markovich answered a question he had asked himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! The next question is asked by the national deputy Kirilenko. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u85	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine"]] Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a question for you as for the chairman: we have not solved the question about the President, whether he will have a speech or not. Along with the fact that we got 30 votes in favour of the draft ruling that the presidency passed, you pretended that a decision had been made, and you gave the floor to the deputy Karpova. Having nothing personal against him, I would like to know, after all, what has been decided with our President and you -- will he have a word today after his meeting with the Belarusian dictator, will he still not have a word? That's the first one. And the second point is the presence of Deputy Karpov in the rostrum. You have 226 votes, as Ukraine saw yesterday, split into two factions, put to the vote now, and resolve the issue of committee heads and the first deputies. Why a break, why do the consultations seem to be open until Tuesday, when the issue can be resolved by 226 votes? I'd like to have an answer for both the President's first position and the Karpov deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u86	I'm asking the National Deputy Karpov to answer a question that concerns the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Since the question of the general order is asked, and we are talking about the procedure, regulations and organization of the work of the Supreme Council, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in deciding on the agenda, the Supreme Council did not decide on a specific date for the President's speech. That's the first one. The other one. The President's right to speak in the Supreme Council is his right. The President must decide for himself when such a speech will take place in the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, sorry, when we accept the agenda, there is not only a sequence, but a schedule of meetings and agendas for a particular day, absolutely correct. But tell me, who could have known that there would be a positive vote yesterday, not sooner or later? That's why we didn't have a specific date. This should therefore be the subject of final negotiations and arrangements. It's about committee division. In fact, there are two ways of dealing with these issues in procedural practice. The first scheme provided for in the Rules is when decisions on the election of committee heads, the first deputies and the overall proportional representation of all bodies of the Supreme Council and international delegations take place under this procedure. There is another scheme when a parliamentary majority is created that determines how the committees are distributed, and assumes responsibility not only for the leadership of the Supreme Council and for the position of the Supreme Council, but also for the committees, for their activities, for their leadership. So there are two schemes for solving this issue. They both have the right to life. I think that those who are willing to join in the constructive work of the Supreme Council should be interested in having such consultations held and that the appropriate distribution should take place on the basis and within the framework of these consultations. So from the very beginning, there was an offer to hold consultations and postpone meetings, to take a break and start a meeting of the Supreme Council tomorrow at 10 a.m. Although I am firmly convinced, with experience, that in such a short period of time such a problem, sadly, cannot be solved on every side of the world. Therefore, it takes more time to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. The time taken to answer the question is exhausted. Thank you. On procedural matters, the people’s deputy, Matthew. Please. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u89	Thank you. The Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and your colleagues who have occupied these places alongside you! Since the first day of your new job, you will consciously break the rules of employment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if you don’t complete them cynically. There has been a successful outcome, although it may not be suitable for some, but there has been an effective vote on the draft decree, which has been made personally by you - the Head and the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council. He was supported by 30 national deputies. So we haven't solved the main question. We don't have the right to go any further in the daytime without the support of your draft decision. Next. Would you please answer the question, on what basis was the word now given to Deputy Karpov? On what basis? The preparatory group that I am particularly a member of, and the leader of, is our colleague, comrade, deputy director of the Communist faction Martinyuk, has made no decision on this issue. How can we ignore the basic rules, even ethical rules, of working in Parliament? Thus, the Communist faction insists that the chairman enforce the basic law of the Supreme Council’s vitality, that is, the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u90	Thank you. I also ask you to follow the rules. The word is given by the national deputy Karpov. Turn on the microphone of the Karpov People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! The basis for giving me the floor is the procedure for dealing with matters in the Supreme Council. This procedure foresees that when a matter is not resolved, the Supreme Council automatically, and it has always been, goes to another issue. That's the first one. The other one. As to why I reported. You know, Valentin Grigorovich, the working group that reported on this issue was me. I have previously reported this issue in terms of the general approaches that were being considered at the initial stage. Now we've moved directly to this issue, and that's why the word was given to me. There was no other decision made by the preparatory group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u92	Thank you. On procedural matters, the National Deputy of Assadchev. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u93	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 220, Kiev]] Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to say from the procedure. The Constitution does not state that the President has the right or the right. The Constitution clearly spells out the constitutional powers of the President, which he is obliged to carry out. [[Article 106]] I'll read it. "President of Ukraine: Ensures State Independence." And so on. The second point is, "It refers to the people and with year-on-year messages to the Supreme Council." So the question of order of the day is not a simple question. It's not a question of whether or not the President's right. This is a matter for the President to exercise his constitutional powers. That is why we are obliged to resolve it now, because it is the exercise by senior officials, including the Supreme Council, and the President, of our constitutional powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u94	Thank you. The last of the procedural issues is the People's Deputy Lucenko. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u95	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We are now witnessing how yesterday, by force of exile, the majority planted their speaker, who from the first second completely disregards the Rules, completely disregards the rights of the national MPs and seeks only one to agree with their positions, to please the President and that group of persons who are responsible with him for everything that has been done in Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, insists that we are now considering the issue of the day's order, which is intended to listen to the message of the President of Ukraine. There was no other order of the day. Therefore, please follow the Rules, and consider this matter. And last of all, I'm going to say that besides the red clown of Ukraine today, I guess I got a white spider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-29-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! The time spent on procedural matters is exhausted. In view of the lack of suggestions on principles, the approach to the formation of parliamentary committees, the election of committee heads and their first deputies, in view of the fact that four factions did not arrive today at the Conciliation Council meeting, which was scheduled to take place at 9 a.m., I propose that in 15 minutes the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council hold a Conciliation Council and that I invite the factions to this meeting. In this regard, honourable national MPs, I announce a recess until 4:00 p.m. [[Applause]]
