ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:54]] Registered - 417 There are 417 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to schedule a meeting today. At about 11 a.m., you'll be given a draft budget by the third reading. The Budget Committee and the government have been working all night, and now this document is multiplying, more specifically, multiplying. This is the order of our work. Since there have been so many requests, we should vote on the questions. Then work according to the schedule of meetings. As soon as the draft budget is made available, we will return to the draft budget. Is there no objection? I'm out of procedure. I see. Please, Turkov. I see it all, my dear fellows. We'll talk from the procedure for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday there was an unprecedented coup d'état. We ask the faction to give the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko to inform the Supreme Council of the cynicism and the crimes that are taking place in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u3	Well, please. Just within a minute of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! I wanted to inform you about what happened yesterday. Yesterday, the Voice Court was looking into the case of those young boys, 20 to 25 years old, who were caught on March 9 during protests at the President's Office. Yesterday 15 people, I want to draw your attention, these are actually the best guys of our nation who weren't afraid to go out in the square fighting for us to finally become citizens. Yesterday, they were given four to five years in prison to all who were taught at the Academys in the universities of Ukraine, which are the best in real life. I want us to understand that each of us has children, we have grandchildren, and we want you to take on the situation that took place yesterday in the Vocal Court. Yesterday, one of the boys. Please put your cell phone down! I just don't have a conscience! At least for one minute, stop your business! I'm asking you. Yesterday, one of the guys in Kiev's colleges just set himself on fire because the sentence wasn't just unfair, it was just the destruction of 15 young people. The point is that when this man was self - inflamed, our deputy Volintz tried to protect this child because he was a child. And it wasn't easy, Volinca, the Berkuts beat him, broke his ribs. I just want you and I to think about these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u5	Thank you. By Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", head of the National Association of Writers. Dear legislators and honourable voters, I would like to announce with regret that tonight the heart of an outstanding Ukrainian has ceased to beat, though Russian - speaking poet Leonidas Viacheslavy - laureate of the national title of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, a Ukrainian poet named after one of the stars in the universe. He was an outstanding man, no matter what he wrote in Russian. He always stood in defense of the Ukrainian language, the Ukrainian spirit. And his last books were written in English. I offer to stand up for one minute and honor the memory of this outstanding man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I ask you to honor the memory of Leonid Viacheslavski for a minute. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Yeah, let's go. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Five minutes off and we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I want to report that 12-13 numbers in Helsinki, Finland, will be held by the World Assembly of Parliamentarians on the question of the development of science, investment and technology. I'm invited there with an introduction to this symposium. I want to ask the honourable deputies who have some innovative projects in their businesses and so on, to give me literally on one page such an advertisement for their activities or the activities of their institution, where all the addresses and bank addresses of your institutions would be there, too, so that I can advertise them there, at this global conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u9	Just a minute. Rudzkowski, please. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes of procedural questions. Well, Rudzkowski raised his hand earlier, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u10	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order not to disturb the situation in the hall, I suggest you give the commission, have the Minister of Internal Affairs report what took place in the court hall and how they could have beaten up the Ukrainian national deputy. This is the first time. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the secretariat an order to do so. Well, leave him out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u11	Well, I can't give it to everyone! I can't give it to everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u12	Vladimir Mikhajlovich, that Thursday's vote be held only by those who were considered last week, otherwise the national MPs, are now in the hall, most people don't know these questions. This must be done, as it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u13	Well, I'll give, well, not all of them! Please, Boris Bespali. Well, please, take your seats. Don't lose your job!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u14	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we have just learned that there are things that unite us all, such as the memory of our famous Ukrainians. Another thesis has just been said: All of us must be united in respect for and compliance with the laws. All must obey the laws. But criminal criminals enforce the law of coercion, even though there is such a procedure as pretense. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am precisely in the voting procedure. Several times in this session room, the question may not have been sufficiently raised that some of our esteemed colleagues, whom we respect very much, should still be required to exercise their parliamentary powers. First of all, we're talking about Vladimir Szczerbany, the Suman Governor, there are MPs who connect their work with their work in the Cabinet of Ministers. And I think that those who are legislators should not wait for a court decision. If you have to help them do this, take a look. And we're turning to the faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, bring the matter to order. And if someone doesn't, help them get the right orientation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u15	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Peter Simonenko, please. I would like to point out that that's where we set the time for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u16	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to express a strong protest against our faction in connection with the actions taken by the law enforcement authorities and, above all, by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which continues to harass and is said to be simply a shock to the people who participated, or at least an attempt to participate in the protests of the fall. People's calls to investigators continue. They come to apartments at night, and people are intimidated by something else. That is how I strongly protest against the actions of the Attorney General, who to this day is sending threats to the people’s deputies to come to the Attorney General’s Office in connection with the admiration of the office of the President’s Administration. As we all know, no one took the President's office. And they say, "If you don't show up for questioning, we're going to attract you with the same, let's say, militias and other power structures." Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. You know about this problem. It is necessary to put an end to this system of law - enforcement agencies that work for political orders. And with regard to the President's press conference yesterday, I have no doubt about it, but it only provokes one outrage at the words that the President used using the folklore of anecdotes. This not only offends but demeans not only us national MPs but also the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Please, Karmazin. Well, wait, there's a sure turn. We made a deal. We took five minutes. Please don't rape me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u18	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will be discussing the Law in our third reading on the State Budget of Ukraine. For two weeks now, as my parliamentary request to the government to abolish the illegal order of the former Yusko Finance Minister, who, by himself, exceeded his official authority, has been sequestering the budget for almost 2.5 billion dollars. I demand, once again, that today, before the state budget vote, Prime Minister Yanukovich's information on the lifting of this. This is the first time. It's different. Today, we have to be briefed by the Attorney General of Piscos about the beating of the Volinz national deputy. If we let one of these happen just like that without an order, it will happen every day. We can't go there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u19	Okay. Thank you. Please, School and Matthew Valentin Grigorovitch and all. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on December 11, the Rules Committee discussed the draft calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council. So I'm making an offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to include this draft decision in the agenda of the day, which is from this issue, and to make a decision today so that our colleagues, all the national MPs, will be able to navigate properly and make plans for work somewhere during the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u21	National deputy of the school. And that's it, we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! I realize that most people are completely indifferent to what happened yesterday in the Vocal Court. Most people don't care, there are national MPs present, the fate of their fellow national MP. And just so it doesn't happen to him, whether he's beaten or dead, everyone here is counted from their point of view. It didn't touch me, so it's okay. And I would like to ask you all here honestly to answer the question, "Do we care about the fate of those young people who for nothing have been completely unjustifiably sentenced from two to five years in prison, where they are 28 years of age?" And you're saying that there's guilt there, that there's something proven there, is just as absurd as in this same state as talking about the existence of a law. In the same way, they can treat your children in an illegal way. And I demand in this room that there be an investigation into the fact that a national MP was being beaten and that there be an investigation into the criminal activity of the Justice of the Gaussian Court of Holika, who, contrary to the law, put people in a position of logic and thereby violated the oath of a judge. I demand this, I hope that the signatures will be collected for his resignation and for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! I'm making an offer. Corresponding to the speeches and statements made today during the discussion of the procedure on procedural matters, first of all, to appoint the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Vasiliev, along with the relevant committees, to study the matter now. First. Ask the Minister of Internal Affairs to provide information all the way. The other one. Dear colleagues! Ask the Minister of Internal Affairs to provide relevant information to the Supreme Council. Calm down, please! The other one. Along with the relevant committees, learn how to study and consider the situation. Whether it is to create a special commission or to assign one of the active commissions or to assign a committee to deal with the matter. I'm asking them to process and make proposals by 12 o'clock. As for the order of the day's third session. Now I'm going to ask them to make proposals. Deal? Dear colleagues, have you been handed over? I ask that you now vote to include in the agenda and accept the schedule of the third session. Is there no objection? Calendar plan, sorry. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, yesterday you all received a draft regulation on the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with all the indicators for holding both plenary meetings and weeks for committee and factions, as well as for working directly in the constituencies. The proposed draft calendar plan takes into account all requirements of the Rules for holding twice a month plenary meetings, one week for committee and factions, and the last week for organizing and carrying out work in relevant constituencies. The committee also considers that many holidays will be held during the third session of the Supreme Council. So the calendar plan is designed to make these holidays work mainly in the constituencies. In addition, we took into account the fact that there should be a leave in accordance with the law and the Law on Status, particularly the National Deputies. So it's proposed to close the third session on July 18th, and to start the fourth session in accordance with the Constitution we should be with you on September 2nd. Therefore, I would like to make a decision on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u25	No objection, dear colleagues? I am voting to include in the agenda the issue of approval of the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:23:00]] For 392 For 392, the decision is made. I am voting on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. Please vote. [[10:23:26]] For 397 For -397. Is there a note? Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no comment on the schedule, we have confirmed it, we have accepted your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u27	No, we just accepted it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u28	That's how we haven't voted in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u29	No, we didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u30	So then I'd like to ask after we vote in general, I'd like to introduce a little trailer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u31	Please. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a whole as a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. Please vote. [[10:24:18]] For 377 Decision taken. Out of procedure, Alexander Alexandrovich, please. I see you staying.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You made an offer there after what happened today. Since we have a temporary commission of inquiry headed by Gregory Omelchenko, who deals with such a type of issue, it would probably be right if the Supreme Council had entrusted her with this issue now, first. And secondly, since the people's MPs have been mutilated, the police officers should be called here for information after 12 hours of the minister and the Attorney General. And we would do this, let's say, in any way, to respond to the problem that exists today, because it's not the first case and, you know, you have to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have now asked, let Hennady Andriyovich, gather together, negotiate and make the appropriate decision, taking into account your proposal that we are one and then another, and will make what decisions they are making, including with the heads of the professional committees concerned, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the demands of the Ukrainian National Deputies. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Viacheslav Kirilenka, Alexander Goodima to the President of Ukraine, for his reaction to the status of diplomat to the action of the extraordinary and authoritative ambassador of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:25:55]] For 139 The decision is not taken. The National Deputy of Yavorowski to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Smyrnov on numerous electoral complaints about the inability to obtain a Ukrainian citizen's passport because of the lack of form, resulting in social tension and severe dissatisfaction with the actions of executive authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:32]] For 226 Decision taken. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the renovation of the National Museum in the city of Berezan, Kyiv district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:57]] For-152. Decision taken. Mikoli Pisocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the request for a position in the state holding company Luganskwogil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:26]] For-144 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister in response to a request for funding of the construction of a school in the village of Balashovka Breznov in the province of Ravensk, provided for by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated April 19 and October 14, 2002, number 551 and number 1537. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:07]] For-162 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the incomplete financing of Montenegro's vocational and technical school number 5. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:34]] For 180. Decision taken. Jaroslav Jódzik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of the students' degree social protection fund. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:00]] For-167 Decision taken. Vladislav Otroszczenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the medical corps of the City District Hospital, whose construction is provided by the Chernobyl building program. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:27]] For 202 Decision taken. Sergija Slabenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in expenditure from the State Budget for 2003 to the needs of the Volin Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:53]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Paul Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the resolution of the issue of the military town of the disbanded military unit into the municipal property of the territorial community of Korosten of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:20.]] For 190 Decision taken. Raisie Bogatyrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the accounts of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine with the state-owned company Luganskoglgresa for the coal supply in 1998-1999. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:55.]] For-142 Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the discreditation of Ukrainian Armed Forces veterans who were released from reserve in 1994. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:23]] For-188. Decision taken. Petra Toločka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that took place at the National Museum of National Architecture and the life of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:51]] For 199 For 199, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on State Service, violation of citizens' rights to public service. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:19]] For 132 For - 132, the decision is made. Sergija Slabenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the court to execute its decision on the acquisition by the executive debt service, the financial compensation for the property of military personnel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:49]] For 118 For 118, the decision is made. Sergija Slabenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the court to execute its decision on the acquisition by the executive debt service, monetary compensation. Oh, they've already voted on that, haven't they? I'm sorry. Georgia Kruczkova to the first Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine on the authenticity of the content of the conversation with the President, as contained in the book Who Is Who? I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:33]] For-149 For - 149, the decision is made. Sergija Slabenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, in the face of dissatisfaction with the response to the request for the condition of the provision of disabled persons by cars. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:01]] For a hundred and 194, the decision is made. Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, for financing the renovation of the Johno-Frankov Central Hospital. [[Kruc, Grigorovich, Budžigan]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:28]] For 202 For 202. Decision taken. Valentina Seminyuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the terms of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Mladov on mutual recognition of rights and regulation of property relations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:01]] For-173 For 173. Decision taken. Jury Solomatina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the improper execution of the Kyiv City and the Volosivian District in Kiev by the State Administrations of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" in part of the right of the National Deputy of Ukraine to request and request. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:36]] For-160. For 160. Decision taken. Anatoly of Seminoga to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltava District of the Court’s decision to recalculate the pension of Major Korjak. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:05]] For-93 Z-93. Decision taken. People of Kirichenko to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the debt from the regressive payments of the workers of the mine of the Ukraine Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:33]] For 196 For 196. Decision taken. John Stoyk to the Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine, president of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences, on the illegal use and refusal of spoiling the land of the research farm Horostkovsky. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:03]] For 106 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the financing of the state’s Mirgorod Grenade plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:30.]] For 124 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin, Sergey Ratushnjak to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Order to release Olga Rybak from office as judge of the Solomon District Court of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:59]] For-137 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the power train movement on separate Southwest railway stations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:27]] For 181 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine for Land Law Violations in the Valley Region of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:51]] For 158. Decision taken. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the financial and economic activities of the State Enterprise "Trophymov Research and Training Farm" of the Odessa State University. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:20]] For 134 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in criminal proceedings on the fact of possession of the property of an academic 22 housing cooperative. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:46]] For-154 Decision taken. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the burden of responding to a parliamentary appeal regarding the violation of the housing rights of residents of homes at 32 and 15 on the street of China in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:18]] For-143 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacles to the activities of the independent association of the Open Shareholder Society of the Orgitsky Sugar Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:45.]] For-166 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure of Dniprogerzhinska by the prosecutor’s office to uphold the rule of law. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:16]] For-142 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Mironenko, Bondarakuk, Kravchenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on tax evasion and falsification of city property agreements. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:48]] For 132 For - 132, the decision is made. Sergey Slabenka to the head of the Volin District State Administration regarding the status of implementation in the Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers’ decree of April 19, 2002, number 551, and the resolution of the problems of the city of Novovolinsk, the village of Yellow. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:42:23]] For the 180. For 108, the decision is made. Valery Assadchev to the Ukrainian State Executive Service in connection with the failure of the court’s decision. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:42:48]] For 124 For - 124, the decision is made. We voted all the questions. At the request of two factions - the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialist Party of Ukraine - a 30 - minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to come into the session room and take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you about the negotiations or the outcome of the conversation that took place during the break. During the break, I had a meeting with the leaders of the four factions -- the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and Our Ukraine. This was about yesterday’s events, with the information that the national deputies spoke about. There is such an agreement that we are now continuing to work, at the same time, that we are preparing to refer to the President of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Court for a verdict that was delivered yesterday relative to the 15th, if I am not mistaken, to young people. The second is what we propose, and we invite the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General, the representatives of other power structures, to give information to the Ukrainian people's deputies on behalf of our colleague Volinz. And the third. To entrust the commission headed by Gregory Omelchenko with a study of the situation involving the Ukrainian national deputy. Did I get the right information about what was going on? So let's get back to work. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Ostrash. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the questions on the schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u35	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have rightly formulated today many of the protocol tasks that have been expressed in the appeals of the national MPs. But you did not pay any attention to Boris Bespalokh - national deputy of Ukraine, who spoke of the conjoints. So we have a really interesting situation today where, let's say, the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, Kirilenko, as well as the Minister of Papiev, Governor of Scherban, the Chief Justice of Kiwalov and many others are practically working on two chairs. Today we will uphold the judges, and there are also doubts as to the legitimacy of this decision taken by the High Council of Justice. So I'd like to ask you to give us some information right now that's actually being done about the co-conspirators.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u37	And I also wanted to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to do everything in his power to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, and this would greatly enhance the prestige of the Cabinet of Ministers and Prime Minister Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you that I also had a conversation with the Prime Minister, and agreed to this, and with the National Deputies. I have sent letters to all the national deputies who are working in executive structures today, and not only in executive, with the proposal that they be voluntarily identified by the end of this year. I'll tell you why I did it -- I don't want to go to court to do it in accordance with those rules, to the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, my fellow Members, I suggest that the Rules Committee and I hold meetings with my participation, invite fellow national deputies, and each of them will be specifically decided: either he returns to work in the Supreme Council, or he exercises his powers in executive structures of power. Well, I think that's a normal approach. I'm announcing a draft law. Dear colleagues, please calm down! I am introducing the draft Law, more faithfully, the law establishing the minimum wage for 2003 with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The committee proposes to enact such a law in a new edition. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Act on Minimum Wages for 2003 adopted on 28 November 2002 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons: 1. Article 1 of this Law provides for the establishment of a minimum wage of 237 dollars per month as of January 1, 2003. Without denying the urgent need to increase the minimum wage as one of the main public social guarantees, it is considered necessary to pay attention to the following: a law enacted in violation of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, which stipulates that the minimum wage is established by the Supreme Council only by submitting a Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the proposals made by means of negotiations by representatives of professional associations, owners or persons authorized by them. Furthermore, the law was passed in violation of article 6.2, section 2. 7 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, which provides that if a bill is to be put into effect that requires material and other costs at the expense of the State and local budgets, it will be accompanied by financial and economic justifications and proposals to cover these costs. The adoption of the law did not determine the source of additional expenses that amounted to a significant amount. Thus, the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 dollars per month from 1 January 2003 with an optimal rate of pay for budget workers will require an increase of almost 9.8 billion dollars in the budget for the 2003 State Budget project. Even considering that additional revenue from the increase in income tax from citizens, value added tax and excise collection will amount to 5.6 billion dollars, more than 4 billion dollars will be needed to implement the law. These additional costs are not foreseen for the draft State Budget Act 2003 adopted by the Supreme Council on second reading. Under these circumstances, the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 dollars on 1 January 2003 will result in the need for or reduction of a large number of institutions, institutions, budgetary organizations, or the creation of a large debt from wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems of providing a minimum wage of 237 dollars are not limited to the budget. This applies to individual sectors and many businesses in Ukraine. A particularly critical situation will arise in areas such as agriculture, forests, and fish farming. For information, the average wage in November 2002 in these areas was 188 dollars, 282 dollars, and 258 dollars respectively. Please note that if you decide to set a minimum wage of 237 dollars, you'll have to raise coal prices by 20 to 25 percent. In such a situation, raising the minimum wage to 237 dollars does not increase the social protection of citizens. And the last. It should also be noted that the increase in the minimum wage to 237 dollars per month does not correspond to the economic growth rate of Ukraine in 2003, i.e. it does not have an economic basis. Ukraine’s main macro-indicators of economic and social development are assumed to be 4 percent of gross domestic product growth in 2003. Thus, an increase in the minimum wage by 43.6 percent while expecting an increase in GDP by 4 percent is not possible. Taking this into account, I ask you, honourable national MPs, to accept the President of Ukraine's proposal for an adopted law, and the available financial resources to focus on restoring the pay-as-you-go ratios. Questions about the increase in minimum wage levels need to be considered on the basis of the implementation of the budget for the first quarter of 2003. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u40	Thank you. Mikhail Mikhailovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, today we have no questions. Calm down, sit down, please. I'm asking you again. Dear colleagues, he will now report from the committee, say the position of the committee. We have today, Yuri Anatolyevich, the vote. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Calm down, please. Now, come on, then, from the procedure. Please sit down, I beg of you. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u41	Dear National MPs, briefly on the history of Bill 1305. We know that the size of one of the state’s most important minimum wage guarantees was 165 dollars a month, accounting for only 45 percent of the minimum wage on a working person. This is the effect of the Constitution of Ukraine by articles 46 and 48. The Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees provides that the minimum wage may not be lower than the minimum wage established by law. In addition, this size, 165 bracelets, contradicts other laws, Presidential decrees, and Supreme Council decrees. By the way, the committee also concluded that this level of minimum wage does not provide for an expanded work force and sufficient purchasing capacity. So he can't satisfy a person's needs even in food products at the level of minimum standards that are called upon to ensure his normal physical existence and to restore his productivity. On the contrary, such a minimum wage contributes to the degradation of the labour force, further away from the intellectual potential of the country, rather than stimulate, it inhibits the economic growth of the state as a whole. That's why the Committee on Social Policy and Labour came out with a proposal, and we voted on the 28.11 bill 1305, which established the state social standard, the minimum wage of 237 dollars. I remind my distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies. It was kind of a compromise. According to all legislative standards, the minimum wage should be 270 dollars. We took into account the difficult, difficult situation the government was telling us about and made some compromise, set it at 65 percent of the living minimum, 237 dollars. Today we see the remarks made by the President of Ukraine. And I want to tell you that these comments are not accepted by the committee today, although we have once again offered a compromise, I'm going to sound it, this comparative table is in your hands. I just want to remind you that at the end of September of this year, the Supreme Council, by decree 168-4, recommended that the government provide for the budget to increase the minimum wage in 2003 at a rate of not less than 65 per cent of the minimum wage. And in November of this year, we passed the law. Dear colleagues! I'd like to help you develop two myths. The first myth is that the kind of increase in the minimum wage is not 10, not 12, not 30 billion dollars extra. Nothing like that. The necessary costs are 6.3 billion dollars. But consider this. The budget economy has led to an increase in the minimum wage, which will result in an increase in income tax, once. Tax on added value, two. Excise congregation, three. Savings by reducing the total amount of housing subsidies. So the committee estimates that with the help of the trade unions is going to be about 3 billion dollars, which is completely part of the budget deficit that we're going to be looking at with you. And another myth. At a committee meeting yesterday, we made an official warning to Ministry of Finance staff. It is not right, it is unacceptable to consider the minimum wage, compare and compare the wages of the cleaning woman and the school principal. These are completely different things. During 2002, you and I did not expect to receive a profile ministry tariff on internal wage differentiation between the cleaning lady and the school principal. I think that this approach to 165 dollars by the government is the most common sabotage. And here's what we're going to show you. We cut hospital beds by 20 percent, we send people on unpaid vacations -- that's unacceptable. And once again, I emphasize that this comparison is invalid. So you're thinking about a new regulation that we're proposing, and we're compromising again. We suggest, as we once did from 118 deputies of that call, to 165. Since January 1st, we propose to set a minimum wage of 185 dollars per month, and from July 1, 2003, we propose to set a minimum wage of 237 dollars per month. Why? The poverty line in Ukraine today is 175. There can be no minimum wage below the poverty line. So we've offered a small majority because basically the committee was set up revolutionaryly to overcome the veto, we're offering once again compromise -- 185 of the first January and 237 of the first July. We ask the session to support the bill in the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u42	National MP Kravchenko. Dear colleagues, please! Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u43	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, two rapporteurs and co-rapporteurs have actually made statements. In fact, a new version of the law is being introduced. In addition to the law of the pervasive one, which affects the interests of hundreds, tens of millions of people. And not even having the right to ask a question and put it to a vote, I think it's wrong. Let us therefore register and ask their questions to the Minister and to the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is where we fit in. Is there no objection? Let's therefore, I ask you to sign up, Minister, to prepare yourself, to sign up for Jaroslav Suhogo, our colleague for a question. Ten minutes enough? Well, 15 minutes, please sign in. So to whom, dear colleagues? Let's do it this way: 5 minutes to the co-rapporteur, 15 minutes to the minister. A co-conspirator to complete the procedure, please. Put it on the board. National MP Taran, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u45	Your Honor, I want to say one thing that can obviously be done about the reallocation of funds, because to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it's hundreds of millions of dollars. I want to say that, given how much it takes to serve the President's Administration, on the force structure, that's about 10 billion dollars in total: tax inspection, the prosecutor's office -- put it all together. So you can't essentially distribute, take the money and give the kids to raise the minimum wage. It's just a simple redistribution, because when the police today are doing what they're doing to the national MPs, and for that, we have to give them the money, sorry, it's totally anti-national politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u46	Thank you. I understand that your faction will support our committee's legislative proposal. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u47	Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, distinguished speakers, I understand that we are all better than the electorate and I, as a representative of the Majority District, should, inter alia, report on the adoption of the bill. Therefore, the reality of the adoption of a law in which an increase of 9.8 billion grevens is very weak. Next year, we plan to raise the salaries of the budget to 100 billion. This is how you consider such a proposal, if we increase it, will we adopt a law that is proportional to a billion 100, which in the next year's budget to increase the budget area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u49	I'll answer you in Russian. You probably didn't hear what I said. The amount needed will be about 3 billion, first. And secondly, I'm reading an article on the second bill in Ukrainian: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will, by 1 March 2003, submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a step-by-step approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum wage and amendments to the laws of Ukraine, which provide for minimum wage calculations." So not at the expense of local budgets, we see what this can do, doctors, teachers, but at the expense of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u50	Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u52	Please turn on Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u53	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich and distinguished Minister! In this matter, which is now being heard, there is a complete confusion. Just recently, our distinguished president gave the majority a job, not in the next year, but in this year, twice, at least, to raise the wages and pensions of Ukrainian citizens. Today, the Minister, the representative of the Faction of SDPU, is absolutely contrary to the President's wishes, saying what he has just said. A representative of your faction Nestor Schufric two days ago, explaining why the faction of SDPU(o) did not vote in favour of the budget in the second reading, said that because there was no substantial increase in wages. Why is there such confusion and such demagogism, on the one hand, in the faction of the united social democrats, in the minister and you as a representative of the same faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Jaroslav, I report to the committee first. Secondly, I voted in favour of the budget. And thirdly, I am pleased and pleased that you are such a high authority and so respect the opinion of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. I think with these words comes the glory of you, oh, my God, the insight that he is truly the guarantor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u55	The name was Shufric. Please, with a replica of Shufrich's microphone. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. We've heard the name of the faction of the united Social Democrats. I want to explain our position. First, yesterday, when voting for the budget in the second reading, the faction of the united Social Democrats cast 22 votes, more than half. Secondly, we made a point with two questions. We are very concerned about the position of increasing salaries for teachers, health workers and other social workers funded by the budget. We are also concerned about the sources of public deficits. Therefore, I ask my colleagues on the Supreme Council to be very careful about our comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u57	Okay, okay. Please, just sit tight. There were suggestions to ask Minister Papiev. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, on the rostrum. Please sign up for a question to the minister. Recorded? Are we moving on? Should we sign up again? Turn on the system, logging in on the question. Light up, please. Taran. Next Kalinchuk. Taran's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u58	The faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, Victor Taran-Terreen. So, Your Honor, we are deeply convinced that we need to overcome the President's veto. The reference to the fact that there is no money in the state is false. There's money in the state. It's just that this authority doesn't want to give people money. And that's why we will stand firm for overcoming the President's veto. And we'd like to know your point of view and the kind of person who would have to be hurt for these miserable people who get these pitiful copies. You can at least once say your point of view, which, let's say, will not correspond with the President, have the courage to say how people live today, and that the President's veto needs to be overcome. The faction of Yulia Tymoshenko's bloc will be decisively overcoming the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u59	Thank you. Then I'll give you the answer. The point is, you know, the Supreme Council voted on the 2003 budget in a second reading. And to give a complete answer to your questions, let us go back to the events that took place in 2002. On July 1, we introduced a minimum wage of 165 dollars, which was not budgeted. So this amount that was needed to do this is 1.6 billion dollars. Today I've been giving you figures that we need to predict 9.8 billion dollars in the budget for the minimum wage of 237 dollars. Moreover, each problem needs to be dealt with with with with with carefully. And to approach, from a moral point of view, this is to take into account the interests of other citizens. Today, as the minister, the main issue for me is protection, social protection for all Ukrainian citizens. What are we doing now? Now we're raising the minimum wage, and we're not taking into account the inter-employment ratio, so today we need people to have more motivation for work. You can go to teams, you can go to schools, you can see doctors today, and you can see educators today against this minimum wage bill. Today, everyone is interested in establishing a fairer inter-employment ratio — that is, that today people with a sufficient professional level will be provided with enough pay to enable them to support their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u60	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, please, the next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Of course, the question that is being considered today is very important, of course, and the wage that today, the minimum wage that is set, is very low. And, of course, everyone understands in this room and outside this room that it needs to be raised. But I have a question for you as a professional. What does the current draft law have to do with the Code of Budgets? After all, yesterday we accepted the budget in a second reading. Today we plan to accept the budget in the third reading. How will this be linked to income and expenditure? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u62	The point is that today there's a law on setting up a minimum wage of 237 dollars with the President's remarks, from the President's veto. And today, I would like to ask the national deputies of Ukraine to pay attention to the arguments that I am making. There are more than 1 billion dollars in the draft budget for 2003 specifically to guide them into implementing the requirements of Article 57 of the Education Act, which is what I told you about: we need to restore these inter-mission ratios today. And if you count today: if you increase the minimum wage, what number of people, we take into account their social security, and figure out how many people are losing from this today, I guarantee you, we've done these studies that we're losing a lot more people today than those who are winning. And we have today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to come out of, not some populist motive, but from the real needs of the budget. Yes, I'm today's minister, and I'm going to carry out the tasks assigned by the President of Ukraine to ensure that the minimum wage is gradually equal to or even higher than the minimum wage. But this needs to be done realistically, coming from the actual budget possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u63	Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovitch. The next one is Weakness.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u64	Thank you. Please pass the word to Hinsburg Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u65	Hinzburg microphone, please turn it on. Please, Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u66	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I'd like to ask you a question like that. At the successive position of the Communist faction, which sees such problems in the 2003 budget, for example, the return of savings, the minimum wage, free treatment and free training, and so on, against the backdrop of these problems, the minimum wage causes the greatest concern for our voters. Why? Because the minimum wage that our citizen currently receives is impossible to live on. And I, for example, don't care much about the job salary or the size or size of the job, but on which line these job salaries are going to come from. And that minimum wage that was approved in this room, and on which the President's veto was imposed, which yesterday in his speech in such an unusual and very in principle inconsistent speech, speaking against some anecdotes, he also said that the minimum wage should be increased, and for that. So I'd like to ask you, as Minister, why don't you support the president's position today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u67	Thank you. I would like to highlight the following. The point is, perhaps you should know how the inter-position ratios are established. They're coming out of the single tariff grid and coming out of the first-level tariff. That's what I'm doing for you. The other one. Today the Communists and yesterday they did not vote and today they do not vote in favour of the budget, so you can go out with your favorite proposals. Any suggestions you can make, based on populist motives, but you need to get out of the real possibilities. We live in a real country. And today, we should not hide behind any populist calls, but we should make considered suggestions Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u68	National MP. Well, a line of cannons, please. Hinzburg, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u69	Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I would like to say yes. The Communist Party, including I am a representative of it, will vote in favour of a budget that will put first the social problems of our state, the protection of an ordinary citizen. And we're going to vote for this budget if it's clearly expressed there, including this minimum wage. Because of these statements, you say: Communists don't vote, they don't vote for articles that take away and devalue the social protection of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u70	Today the government's position is that, and we have decided that the 2003 budget should be socially oriented. The main thing is that social expenditure does not go down in terms of 2002 but increases. This is the basic guarantee of social protection for the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u71	National Deputy Slabenko, Postfaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u72	I ask you to give Yuri Klukkowski the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u73	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u74	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! Actually, I want to address you as a representative of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, not the Ministry of Finance, and as a representative of the party, which is giving priority to the social idea. Please tell me, because the President's veto has been imposed on this law for a long time, and then you've been involved in the withdrawal of the budget. And you've had the opportunity to redesign the budget to remove this shameful situation, when not only the minimum wage, but also the wages of many categories of budget staff are much lower than the officially recognized and underpaid minimum of living. Please tell me, as a minister, if the wage is 60 percent of the minimum wage, how many days per year should this person live if he receives such a salary?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u75	Social guarantees are now set up not only by the minimum wage, but also by the right of people to receive subsidies and other social benefits established by Ukraine’s legislation. Yeah, I'm completely supportive of one thesis today that we need to step up the minimum wage to the minimum wage, depending on the possibilities and the real budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u76	National MP Tsushko, POW faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u77	Chush, the Socialist faction. Please pass the word to Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u78	The People's Deputy of Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u79	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist Party Mr. Secretary, I'm addressing you as well as the deputy. As you imagine, an hour before the budget is adopted, you can adopt a new Minimum Wages Act, referring to your argument that we should give economic justification. But that's not what I'm talking about. At 7:30 a.m., and, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it must have been an order to you, the President said that in view of the steady development of GDP in our country, today, on the day of the adoption of the budget, we should consider and raise the minimum wage for our workers. I think it was a team for most people. Therefore, I propose no discussion today, and the Socialist faction seeks to implement the Rules and today to overcome the President's veto, which agrees with the veto itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u80	Do you have a question or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u81	If you listened carefully to my report, there was the following. What needs to be taken into account today's increase in minimum wage is a real increase in GDP, and we're underlining that. In addition, it is necessary to take into account and index the wages in relation to the level of inflation that is projected and will be real in Ukraine in 2003. So all the necessary suggestions, I give you my word, the Ministry will bring to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they will be real, they will be weighed and they will be targeted at the social protection of the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u82	People's MP, Jojik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u84	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u85	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Mr. Secretary, I have three questions. First. How do you think it is right that this time the government did not raise the minimum wage or the minimum wage? That's practically what we're looking at right now is a parliamentary initiative that the government already has to react to. Secondly, you talked a lot about inter-mission ratios and said that by adopting this law more people would lose than the number that would gain. I'd like to name the exact number by category, how many people win and raise their wages and how many people lose their wages. So far, you're a national MP, and you're either a national deputy or you're calling from the rostrum of us deputies not to comply with the Supreme Council's ruling of September 26 of this year, which states that during 2003, the minimum wage should be 65 percent of the minimum wage. Three questions. Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u86	Thank you. Then I'll start with a second question. I said that today we have in the country, if we have a minimum wage of 237 dollars, then given that we are going to have a budget vote today, and in the second reading it has voted, and the budget costs are clearly fixed. And we're going to come today to make this decision, to follow the path of reducing positions, reducing states. Hospitals are downgrading the city to take this salary into account in the salaries of nurses, cleaners, doctors. And what's more, I would like to stress, we have a manufacturing field that will also be affected by the adoption of this law. This will result in business owners transferring people to part - time jobs, to part - time work weeks, and this will lead to an increase in hidden unemployment. And I absolutely confirm that if we take this law lightly, people will suffer much more than those who win. And let's get out of the restoration of the social guarantees of all kinds of populations today and get out of it with some scientific approaches. Increasing the minimum wage doesn't take away all the questions. Yet, people need to be motivated to work today. Today you cannot take and leave what Mr. Dry said, leave it, bring it in, yes, and ignore the professional level of people, higher education and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u87	Yes, please, Razwadowski, Victor Razwadowski, Democratic Initiatives. Do you have any questions? Yes. Time's up. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we have. Well, please, for the reasons of the vote. All right, dear fellows, we're voting now. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u90	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such arguments are heard annually from the Kabmin representatives in their consideration of the budget. That's a first. Second. We are witnessing with you that the Ministry, I am now addressing the Minister of Social Security, does not bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the European Charter, a social charter that should be the standard in the adoption of laws if the Minister, as our colleague, has consistently insisted on the movement to Europe. Third. Dear colleagues, I call on everyone today to vote in favour of overcoming the veto. We do not have the right when tariffs are increasing, when the benefits are falling and the budget for this year is again provided for in the 56th article by 12 billion, when prices are rising, we are with you witnesses of a statement that GDP is growing, and I would like to ask the Minister why, when GDP is rising this year, the budget deficit is 8 billion this year? In the end, you will learn to tell people the truth and do not confuse the economic categories with each other. And third, last. Before speaking from the rostrum and calling for the re-planting of our people on hungry rations today, I would like you to take advantage of the proposals made by the Communist factions to fill the budget without compromising the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u91	Thank you. All of it! Dear colleagues, we have a vote. From the Committee, Jaroslav Suhi, and we finish. All of it! Please. It's not a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u92	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will ask you, during the vote, to support the bill tabled by the committee on the basis of such considerations. So let me tell you that today the poverty line has grown to over 180 dollars -- first of all, the income tax is taken from 17 dollars. And another observation. Today we had the debut of a young minister of social politics and work. I would ask you not to approach him strictly, because here, on this rostrum, there was a minister of finance, not a minister of social policy and work who thought the same way we thought, but a minister of finance of Ukraine's opinion. I call on all the Ukrainian national MPs to support our bill, to set the minimum wage gradually up to 237 dollars. This is a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'm voting, we have two proposals, we're voting: the first is to adopt the law in a new edition and the second, if it doesn't pass, the veto. Just a minute. Jaroslav Suhi, please. Veto first? Well, let's veto it. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we're not overcoming the veto. The committee is proposing a new edition. If a veto is imposed on the new edition, we will overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Calm down! I'm betting on the vote because we're here to discuss the differences. But if it were written down to repeal the law, there's no law, then we'd get there first. Calm down, please! I am voting on the adoption of the minimum wage law for 2003 in a new edition. Please vote. [[12:02:55]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions. One minute, it's all right, calm down. You don't have to teach me. Second, please prepare. Calm down, please. I'm putting the President of Ukraine's veto on the line. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Insomnia, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u96	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to review the proposals of the President or the so-called veto. According to this decision, the President’s own proposal to repeal the law is necessarily the first. If this proposal is not put to the vote, then the veto is voted on, and then only the committee is put to the vote. Then I very much ask that you take into account the references to the Constitutional Court's decision to return from the beginning to the vote on this issue, first the President, then the veto, then the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Thank you. I ask you to carefully take and read the President's proposals. Last paragraph, I'm reading to everyone and you'll understand: "According to the stated and the fact that the minimum wage is set at the time of the approval of the State budget of Ukraine, it is proposed that the law on setting the minimum wage for 2003 be aligned with the actual possibilities of the State budget. It's not about repealing the law. I ask you to read carefully. I am voting on the President's veto against the Ukrainian law. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're voting in a new paper, he hasn't passed. I'm once again asking for your law, a draft law setting the minimum wage for 2003 in a new edition. [[12:05:21]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I am voting against the President's veto for the Ukrainian Act on Minimum Wages for 2003. [[12:05:48]] For-160. For 160, no decision is taken. The factions, please. The question is out. Sit down, please! We're not going to stretch. We voted twice, how much? Please calm down. I put to the vote a draft law, to be considered in the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Congregations for Compulsory State Pension Insurance for Air Force Workers. Peter Stepanovich, please. You'll be out of town? Well, you can get out of here. Please turn on the microphone. I'm asking you very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u98	Thank you. The Communist faction. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, the committee carefully considered the document and prepared it for second reading. There were two suggestions, both taken into account. And so the committee proposes to accept this document in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u99	I would like to vote on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Congregations for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Please vote. [[12:07:27]] For 351 For 352, the decision is made. There's a committee proposal to vote in general as a bill. Please vote. [[12:07:51]] For 394 For 394, the law was passed. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft law on counterintelligence. [[second reading]] Yesterday we had comments on this. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we have carefully studied the matter that was violated yesterday under this law. We find it fitting to suggest that there are preventive measures that affect certain individuals. And so we suggest that you put this part, the second part of the seventh part of article 8, in this text. With a view to warning timely detection and cessation of counter-intelligence and other illegal attacks on Ukraine's security, the authorities and the Ukrainian Security Service units that carry out counter-intelligence activities shall, if necessary, provide them with an official warning of illegal behaviour. If we don't do that, the authorities that do counter-investigative work won't be able to do any crime-prevention work, and they'll have to file criminal cases when it's possible to do without it. Experts claim that the number of unwarranted criminal cases may rise by about 15 percent. Please support this law and accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm proposing a vote taking into account the changes made by the committee, adopting as a whole the draft law on counter-intelligence. Please vote. [[12:10:12]] For 327 For 327. The law is passed. I am announcing before the vote the draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on the State Service for Pension Insurance. [[second reading]] Please report from the Yaroslav Suhi Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Work provides a comparative table for your consideration, notes are taken into account, except for the observation of the esteemed colleague of Polishchuk, because his addition is subject to article 33 of the Law on State Service, not 37th. I'm explaining why we couldn't take into account his comments. If he is here, insists, one can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u103	Is the Polish MP insisting on his amendment? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u104	And one more thing. We offer to accept only the second reading, because there is a warning about the fourth law of the public service, so we will continue to work on this law. And in order not to take a minute for reasons of vote, I remind you that this bill suggests that if a man, 25 years old, a woman, 20 years old, has 10 years of service, he has the right to retire after retirement, regardless of where he worked on his retirement. He's got all the legal regulations, 25 or 20 years and 10 years. And I want to tell you that this doesn't go in the way of Kabminu, because today you're given the Cabinet Bill 2410, which writes about the same thing, but about the people who worked in the local government: 8 years and more in the election office, that he can also retire, regardless of where he worked before he retired. Please support the bill in second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u105	I would like to vote on the second reading of the draft Act on Supplements to the Law on State Service on Pension Insurance. Please vote. [[12:12:33]] For 380 Decision taken. Let us move on to making decisions. Dear colleagues! I am voting on a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to prepare for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Worked and reconciled. He's given you this project. National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u106	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there was a session decision yesterday also before this consideration of the bill to include the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. We have also considered this project and we support it as a basis. But then, when it's voted as a basis, there's a complement from the committee and from our faction. So I'm very much asking you to give me the floor for their introduction after this project is adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u107	Is there no objection? Please, Mikola Onichuk. Should we explain something or not? Mikola Vasilovich, let's vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u108	I am simply adding that according to our decision yesterday, the principle of proportionality is respected: one in twenty. And that's how the boards are formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u109	I'm betting on the basis of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 0999-PD on the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draft Ukrainian laws amending Ukraine's laws. Please vote. [[12:14:21]] For 276 As a basis, it's been accepted. Please, National Deputy Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the first change, she doesn't need a vote. The faction "Our Ukraine" is asking the temporary special commission to make such a change. Instead of the deputy Zvarič Roman Mikhailovich to be included in the commission of the Hare John Alexanderovich, I stress that John Alexander the Rabbit is a member of the Movement. And the second proposal is from the committee. In the fourth paragraph, if we leave it there, it turns out that the interim commission is the main of all the draft laws on the drafting of the Constitution, although this is the subject of the first committee's knowledge. So our committee proposes to localize the nature of this commission, and after the words in the fourth paragraph of the draft laws of Ukraine, add the numbers of these specific laws of 9998 and 9999, then it will be the main one of these bills. Finally, at the end of the fifth paragraph, it would be appropriate to add a deadline for the introduction to the Supreme Council’s consideration and thus add: to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the date indicated. For example, this could be April 1st of the following year in order for this commission not to become an eternally working commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I think you can and should agree, except for giving. Let's do this as soon as the commission brings it in, we'll consider it right away. Please! Everything will depend on the commission. I put to the vote taking into account the proposals of the national MP Bespalogo and my decision in general. Please vote. [[12:16:28]] For 303 For -303, the decision is made. I'm calling it in. I'm voting on a draft decree to change the boundaries of the city of Artemovské Donetské region. There's no need to report? I am betting on the vote on the adoption of this decree as a whole. Please vote. [[12:16:58]] For-360 For 360, the decision is made. I'm voting on a draft decree to change the borders of Radomisl Radomisl district of Žitomir district. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote as a whole on the adoption of this document. Please vote. [[12:17:25]] For 383 To 383. I'm voting on a draft decree to place the city of New Division of the Mikolai district of Lviv district in the category of cities of regional importance. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree as a whole. Please vote. [[12:17:52]] For 389 For 389. Decision taken. I'm voting on a draft decree clarifying the names of individual Kamen Kashir areas in the Volin region. If there is no objection to anyone, I put the vote on the adoption of the draft as a whole as a decision. Please vote. [[12:18:23]] For 392 Decision taken. Yeah, let's move on to ratification issues. I am announcing before the vote the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of an emergency. The committee supports. I'll bet you a vote. Is there a need for the committee to report? I am betting on the adoption of a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation, mutual assistance in the event of an emergency. Please vote. [[12:19:27]] For 392 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of passengers and cargo. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[12:19:57]] For 383 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. The committee supports, no objections. Please vote. [[12:20:29]] For 378 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us move on to making decisions on the issues under discussion. Draft law amending article 43 of the mining law of Ukraine to simplify the procedure for granting benefits. Yes, the committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. The proposal of the national deputy Zviagiliski and Yooffe on the inadmissibility of the law. She's voting first. There's no need to report? I'll bet the vote first. National MP Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u112	Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, of what is necessary to resolve this issue, is clear because today the miners cannot exercise their declared rights at all, they simply do not give them what they are violating the law, but they are committing a complete mess. Poetmo, we will support any solution that will allow miners in any way to exercise their right to these benefits. But there is an offer to accept it on the first reading and then sit at the table and work it on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? But according to the Rules, I am the first to vote on the proposal of national deputies Ioffe and Zviagiliski. This is a document number 1197 on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft law amending article 43 of Ukraine's mining law. I'll bet you a vote. Take down the vote, please. The Turmanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, we considered article 43 of the mountain law on first reading, and it passed. We have received a proposal, comments from Zvegilski and Jooffe deputies. That's why I'm asking the deputies to support me. The Committee requests that you support, adopt on first reading today, vote on second reading, and on second reading, taking into account the comments made by Zvegilski and Jooff, we will work to get on second reading. Please support the Committee under 43 articles of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, however, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Ioffe and Zviagilski on the non-admissibility of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[12:23:36]] For 122 The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting on the basis of the draft law amending article 43 of Ukraine's mining law to simplify the procedure for granting benefits. Please vote. [[12:24:04]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Change to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2002 on the return of debts to miners. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. No other suggestions? You won't? I'm betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2002 on repayment of debts to miners. [[12:24:48]] For three hundred Decision taken. I'm introducing a draft law on property reprivatization in Ukraine. The committee's proposal is to reject, but we have to vote first on the basis. Please, the author of the Semijuk Valentina Petrovna project. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u116	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you about the need to maintain this legislative document. Today, the President is talking about the need to adopt a law on reprivatization. In fact, this is a framework law on the basis of which a reprivatization program is to be adopted with the determination of each object, and we will consider accordingly with the definition of each proposal that will come upon each object. This will not be the shuler mechanism proposed by the President's Administration today when this mission is carried out directly by the State Property Fund or the Cabinet of Ministers. You and I will consider the bill and the objects themselves directly in the room democratically, discussing each relevant point. So I ask: we will support the first reading and then we will sit down with all the interested persons: representatives of the State Property Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers, and with all the committees, we will work out this document. I'm asking you to back him up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u117	I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Property Reprivatisation Act in Ukraine. [[12:26:35]] For 122 For -122. By factions, please give, by factions. The decision is not taken. Yes, I am introducing to the vote a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single Congregation, which is conducted at points of entry across the state border of Ukraine, on the exemption from the collection of humanitarian aid vehicles. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the project as a basis. [[12:27:21]] For 312 For 312, the decision is made. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a whole as a law of this project. Please vote. [[12:27:43]] For 315 For 315, the decision is made. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Bill on the circulation of bills in Ukraine. From the procedure of the People’s Deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u118	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends, I have taken the floor to simply recall the substance of this bill, so that we can make clear what is going on. It's about removing the observable readings at all, the budget billings. In order for this law to work and operate, it must be dealt with in order to be coordinated with the VAT law, which today gives the right on the basis of cross-checking, in order to comply with other legislation. Otherwise, we are simply by this law, so to speak, interfering with other laws and creating legal negelism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u119	National Deputy Kaputsin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u120	I would like to clarify what Mr. Matvienkov said about this law. This law was being considered by the committee, and this is the issue that you're now dealing with, is the calculation of budget bills, the issue that stands in this law, as a warning to the committee. So we are now adopting the law in the first reading, the committee has given its warning on this very point. And after the first reading, if we take it as a base, we're going to adjust it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u121	National Deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u122	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill is already adopted, it is not a rule that prohibits long-term precepts. Let's see, we've adopted, on the second reading of the 46th article of the budget, which is today corrected, as far as I know, and allows, if the state doesn't pay off the VAT debt, to make an export compensation bill. So either we're taking this law as really unprepared and contrary to the general logic of VAT, or we're adopting it in the first reading, taking into account what's already being taken on the first reading of all the rules that apply to the prohibition of tax claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u123	I am voting on the basis of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the billing law in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:30:34]] For the 17th. The factions, please. The decision is not taken. Okay. I'm going to put in an editorial that takes into account the proposal made by the national deputy of Terhochin. I am voting for acceptance on the basis of the proposals made by the national MP, Teryochina. [[12:31:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. You don't? Who's gonna be on the committee? Is there a need for a committee to report? There are two projects here: 1282 is the Cabinet of Ministers project and 1282-1 is the National Deputy of Zvaric project. Committee proposal: accept as a basis the draft of the National MP Zvaric. But in accordance with the Rules, I place the first draft of the Cabinet of Ministers on the vote. I'm voting on Project 1282 of the Cabinet of Ministers draft Act amending the Ukrainian Auditorship Act. Please vote. [[12:32:22]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that the two bills that we've analyzed here with you have gone into language, and now you've totally just rejected the government bill, where the head institute, the auditorium, the pay is huge, and all the new pressure on taxpayers has been created. In that version proposed by the national deputy Zvaric, this was done more softly and conceptually. It can be corrected, at least so that it does not interfere with entrepreneurs, and in this regard it can be voted on in order to clean up the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u125	I'm voting on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Auditorship Act No. 1282-1. Please vote. [[12:33:48]] For 201 The decision is not taken. I'm announcing a draft regulation on the summation of parliamentary hearings "Societies, media, power, freedom of speech and censorship in Ukraine." The committee's proposal to accept this project. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the radio and television subcommittee My dear colleagues, what is now on your mind, on your vote, believe me, is not just another decision, although they are all very important. To some extent, it's even a test of the democracy of Parliament and its openness. You know, there were hearings, open, democratic hearings. We have prepared a document that will help us to clarify some of the bills, perhaps solve some problems. I ask you not to politicize this question, but to support the wise, weighed, precise determination that was born as a result of these hearings. I'm absolutely sure you will. Thank you for your wise decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u127	I am voting on the basis of the draft ruling on the summary of parliamentary hearings "Societies, media, power: freedom of speech and censorship in Ukraine". [[12:35:41]] For 214 Z-214, factions. Please, I'm asking the committee to see if we can reconcile with the factions again. I would like to announce a draft regulation on the Summary of the report of the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, reports: Heads of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Organized Crime, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the status of the fight against organized crime, as well as a report by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of prosecutorial oversight in the area of combating organized crime. You have three projects, too, dear colleagues. From the committee, please, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u128	Thank you. Gregory Omelchenko. Dear colleagues, we have heard with you a question that has just been announced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. I've been preparing this motion for a ruling, this is a matter of a profile committee -- a committee on anti-corruption, organized by crime. You have three draft rulings: the 2520-1 profile committee and two draft decisions made by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. And they're different from what they're, let's say, in a way, diametrically opposite. If one of the drafters of the 2520 decree passed a draft ruling on the basis of a hearing of a liberal, mild nature, with the addition of funding to the organized crime squad, the authors of the 2520-2 draft decision propose that the units be eliminated in general to combat organized crime and transfer them to the criminal police. Dear colleagues, I don't think this is entirely justified by these two draft regulations, and I would ask you to support a draft decision that was unanimously adopted by the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Committee and brought to your attention by 2520-1, especially since the authors of Project No. 2520 took a significant part of the project submitted by the profile committee. As this draft decree, we believe it is critical, at the same time objective enough, and recognized the work of departments to combat organized crime as insufficient, specific serious comments have been made, the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is headed by the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, has been changed. A new management of the Office for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs began the restructuring of the units, and the certification began. And the committee of departmental officials in the cities that allowed these violations was asked to be released. And the management of the IMF has already released these people. So I would ask you to take this into account so that you don't waste your time, vote and support a draft decision that's being made by a profile committee, with your suggestions, your comments that were before, number 2520-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. National MP Bandurka, right? National MP Bandurka. Thank you, Gregory Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u131	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! A group of deputies: Bandurka, Evdokimov, Gavrish, Burjak - submitted their project on December 12, which is the order in which the first 2520 should be put to the vote, the main one that went after the hearing. In our ruling, we offer a number of organizational and methodical measures and commission to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry's Office, the Security Service to reinforce the fight against organized crime. The project is recognized by the expert management as the most objective, balanced, and appropriate. I ask you to support this very document, which is proposed by the Bandurka, Gavrish and others, because it provides software in this direction for the activities of law enforcement agencies. Not criticism today, but to produce and implement specific programs that we are proposing in Project 2520. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u132	Thank you. The author of the third draft of the decree is Yuri Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u133	On behalf of a group of national deputies from different factions, this is both Carmazin, and the King, and Boki, and Artemenko, Spodarenko, Otrochenko, Tanjuk, Cloud, Orobec, Aloshin, and a number of other deputies, we are giving a decree of 2. The fundamental difference is that we offer to recognize that the criminal situation in the state, the impunity of organized criminal groups, and their participation in the long-standing involvement of individual special forces personnel threatens the national security of Ukraine, as guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, of human rights to life, health and property. The other one. We offer the work of GIBOS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, its structural units in the regions to stop the activities of organized criminal groups. We suggest recommending that the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Internal Affairs, reform the GABOS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine with the aim of transferring these units to the criminal police, by preparing appropriate changes to legislation. We also suggest that the Minister of Internal Affairs draw attention to the insufficient work of officials in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Donetsk region for the detection of serious and particularly serious crimes, their involvement in the commission of crimes, the use of torture against citizens and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u135	That's the fundamental difference. We would like to ask you to vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u136	It's all right. May I have your attention, please? It's all right. Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u137	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, draft decree number 2522, it contradicts current legislation, and so I propose to put to the vote my proposal on its inadmissibility because of the paragraph. This decision is proposed to eliminate divisions in the fight against organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is provided for by law. So let us put into question the inadmissibility of this decision and propose to support the draft decision proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote in order because you didn't have a written offer. I would like to vote on the draft Supreme Council decision No. 2520, introduced by the People’s Deputies Bandurk, Yedkosimov, Gavrish and Burjak. This is 2520, please vote. [[12:43:55]] For 229 Yes, as a base, yes. I now put to the vote the entire draft of this decree, 2520. Please vote. [[12:44:21]] For 219 The factions, please. What's the procedure? People's deputy Philenko, please. What's the procedure? Well, let's do it again, now out of procedure, and now we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u139	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Filenko, faction of our Ukraine. It seems to me that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have confused the number of the decision and the authors of the application. So there was a commotion in the hall. Hall didn't understand the verdict we were voting for. And according to the Rules, the first is the decree prepared by the committee. I'm asking you to correct this organizational and technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u140	And I ask the People's Department of Philenck to read the Rules more carefully. I'm voting on the whole draft decree number 2520. This is a project by Bandurka, Eudemimov, Gavrish, and Burjak. Please vote. [[12:45:34]] For 228 For -228, the decision is made. The factions, please. I am voting on a draft decree on information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the government's activities in the development of a national recovery strategy and in support of its own production and development of highly competitive technologies as the most important condition for the growth of the population's well-being and the achievement by Ukraine of the status of the developed state. The committee proposes to accept the relevant document. Is there no objection? Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u141	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We're going to support this draft decision. But I made a proposal from the committee, and unfortunately I didn't. And during the deal with Yuri Ivanovich, we agreed that we would take the basis and introduce the right that I made from the Special Supervisory Commission, so that the departmental branch would conduct an inventory of scientific research institutions, because today we're privatizing scientific research institutions, in fact those that were transferred to use, confusing the use and ownership. So this proposal, Yuri Ivanovich, I think we've made a deal with him, doesn't deny that these proposals I've made in writing. If I have to, I will read it completely after the vote, taking it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee does not object to such an offer. I'm betting on voting on the basis of the draft of this ruling, taking into account the proposal of the People's Deputies of Semenyuk. Please vote. [[12:47:36]] For 364 364, accepted as a base. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the project as a whole as a decision. Please vote. [[12:47:58]] For 381 For -381. It's been decided. I'm betting on the vote on a draft regulation on the continuation of the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on measures to ensure the warmth of residential buildings, educational facilities, health care, culture and other social objects burning from centralized heating networks. For reasons, please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This ruling can be voted on by removing one item that revives the forgotten practice and the very dangerous practice of carrying out budgetary interrelationships between budgetary institutions and taxpayers. This is going to hit the budget that we're going to vote on. Therefore, the proposal is to delete the item on budgetary interaccounts, and to vote on the rest of the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u144	What point?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u145	An item that recommends the conduct of cross-relationships.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko, as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We support Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's proposal and ask for a vote without this item.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, no. Dear colleagues, I am voting for acceptance on the basis of the position of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik. This is in paragraph 2 fourth paragraph. I bet the vote on the adoption of the draft regulation on the basis of the deletion of paragraph 2 of the fourth paragraph. Please vote. [[12:50:04]] For 379 for 379. National Deputy Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm from the faction. The thing is, we had a little meeting here, and we just didn't randomly vote in favour of the draft Rules on the Summary of Parliamentary Hearings. I would ask you very much in order to put it to the vote again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u150	Now we're going to find him, if the room agrees, we're going to put the draft decision to the vote again. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the adoption of an entire draft decree extending the deadline for the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on measures to ensure the warmth of housing, education, health, culture, and other social facilities that are covered by centralized heating networks. Please vote. [[12:51:20]] For 402 Decision taken. At the request of the people's deputy and the proposal, I think we have made a tolerant move here, and I will put once again to the vote on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the summation of parliamentary hearings "Societies, media, power, freedom of speech and censorship in Ukraine." On the basis of that, please identify yourself. [[12:51:55]] For 223 The factions. The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the draft Act on arbitral tribunals. [[arbitration]] We've been discussing it recently. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? You don't? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Act on arbitral tribunals. [[arbitration]] Please vote. [[12:52:35]] For 277 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Act on State Service and Execution of Punishment. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? Please vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on State Service and Execution of Punishment. [[12:53:09]] For 317 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Citizens in Public Order and the State Border, on the involvement of article 17 on insurance for members of public formations. We discussed it, and the committee suggests that it be accepted as a basis. I'm voting on the basis of the draft of this Act. Please vote. [[12:53:48]] For 308. Decision taken. Who's out of the procedure? Vladimir Hare and Stepan Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your honor, if we're so tolerant of voting today and we're going back to the already voted questions, I have a proposition: let's go back to the Law that defined the minimum wage. Well, we couldn't vote 235. I'm talking to the factions of Communists, Socialists and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, who haven't voted for the new law, which has been proposed since January 1st, and 237 since July 1st. Let's re-vote this bill -- it'll be fair and socially correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u152	Is there no objection? Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, yesterday a bill was introduced to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine in connection with our adoption of the Law on Legalization and Laundering. This is about a change in current legislation in connection with the adoption of this law, as required by the FATF position. And in order to be able to accept it in the first reading today, to work on this still session of the Supreme Council, I propose that we include in the agenda this issue, which is given to you as a bill, and vote today. The committee's position is positive, there's a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u154	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich, please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u155	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Following the President's proposal procedure, we, the Communist faction, voted and confirmed this by voting for the veto to leave the previously voted minimum wage of 237 dollars. But the circumstances are such that most have not supported leaving this limit and are offered a way of approaching 237 dollars. We, the Communist faction, are voting in favour of this decision, but I am now addressing the majority. Please be consistent and protect the interests of our citizens, so that as of 1 January the tariffs and prices will not rise so that from 1 January the prices of medicines will not be lost to our citizens of the benefits of the law that they should receive. And so the faction of communists will support this proposal, because, once again, I am addressing the Minister of Social Policy, we need to urgently submit to the Supreme Council of the Convention, the European Social Charter more faithfully, not the convention, so that there is no attempt to talk about European choice, and thus destroy those, both our 1990s social guarantees and European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u156	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin and Alexander Frost, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, a very hurtful people of Ukraine! You're offered today, they say. The 237 veto is a compromise, but it's not a compromise that 185 today in Odessa tripled prices, three times higher for utilities. So the compromise, if you go and call things your names, is that Yanukovich's government is hard. Yeah, it's hard, it could be in one -- it's 200 bucks now, it's 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u159	Since 1:00, I'm sorry, I haven't finished, I've finished, I've got July 1st, I've got $237. That's the first one. Now the second one. It's a bill on prevention, against money laundering. You remember I begged you here, do not take it the way it was accepted. And then you voted and, you see, we got sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u160	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u161	So I'm asking you to finalize this bill, it's not ready yet for Ukraine to be removed from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u162	Thank you. Thank you. Alexander Alexander the Frost and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u163	Deputies! The faction of socialists this morning considered this issue and it stood, and today it actually stands at 237 because it's somehow justified. But we also realize that if we don't make any moves towards increasing this size, then the old scheme will work, with all the social benefits and compensation, and the help of many children, and so on. So we don't want to vote for a small number that doesn't actually go beyond poverty. But since this is some kind of shift towards 237 which is set for the introduction from the second half of the year, we agree to vote this number today, but we think in principle we need to go back to the previously defined optimum norm 237.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, according to my proposal, I am voting on the adoption of the new Law on Minimum Wages for 2003. Please vote. [[12:59:50]] For 364 The law in the new edition was adopted. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Explain what? If there was a written amendment, we would put it to the vote. Please. You, Yuri Anatolyovich, know all this well. Bandoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u165	Dear people's deputies, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u166	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u167	go back to Bill 1086 on the deletion of article 17 on insurance for members of public formations. 311 deputies were in favour. And in the first reading, there were no comments. Accept as a law and then untie your hands for the future and do not return.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u168	They'll find him now, and we'll return to him with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u169	1086 accept just in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u170	Okay. Now we're going to look, and then we're going to move on. I am announcing before the vote a draft law amending article 255 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the powers of the State Protection Service of the Natural Reserve. The committee's proposal is to accept as a law as a whole. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to accept it as a law as a whole. Please vote. [[13:01:48]] For 314 Decision taken. I am voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to harmonize the rules of the basic privatization laws with the Ukrainian law on the State Privatisation Programme. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. No objections? I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of this bill's draft number 1059. Please vote. [[13:02:30.]] For 283 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, our colleague Bandurk's proposal was, we voted on it as a basis, didn't we? Well, I'm asking you, if we're working so tolerantly, now we're going to have to be compromised here. Alexander Markovich, who views voting as a law in general. Well, we don't vote, so we don't vote. Well, please, we went back and voted. . Here we have others, we have to vote. Well, please. Well, there's only one amendment, there's nothing to make. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Citizens in Public Order and State Border. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:03:47]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, me. Dear colleagues, we agreed to vote in favour of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, and the parliamentary question about the events that took place yesterday. This document came to me. I'll read it right away, you listen to me, the MP's question: "To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoun, Minister of Interior of Smyrnov, Head of Security of Ukraine, Radchenk, the parliamentary request for the beating on 25 December 2002 of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volinz Mikhail Jakovic. On December 25, 2002, a court-martial session was held at the Zagreb Film Theatre. The so - called case was considered regarding the charges of participants in the events that took place in Kiev on March 9, 2001. At the time of the court’s judgment, one of the defendants attempted to burn himself. The national deputies present in the courtroom tried to stop the action. During this period, the Berkutu employees used physical force, resulting in serious injuries to Ukrainian national deputy Volin Mikhail Yakovic. We demand an urgent violation of the criminal case against the appropriate leaders of the forces and members of the beating of the Ukrainian national deputy, Volinz Mikhail Yakovic, and to report immediately to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, do we need to include it in the agenda? That's a question. I'm putting to the vote this request, to send it. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:05:40]] For 293 In 292, the request was voted. Appeal to the Supreme Court, the Kyiv Court of Appeal. "On December 25 of this year, the Kyiv District Court sentenced a large group of young people participating in the March 9 protest to various terms of imprisonment. According to eyewitness national MPs, the course of a court hearing leaves no doubt as to the order nature of the case. The entire trial was conducted with substantial violations of procedural standards, including the court’s rejection of defence arguments, and the testimony of the defence party was not taken into account. However, the court has fully duplicated the charge, which is clearly similar to the political order of forces against democracy, the rule of law and justice. It seems that the relevant officials, disregarding the Ukrainian Constitution’s rules on the distribution of powers, intervene in the work of the court, protecting the honour of uniform and the corporate interests of certain structures. This is unacceptable in general, especially at a time when hundreds of thousands of young people are not provided with jobs, the opportunity to get an education, who are forced to seek a rescue abroad, where, by the way, there is no precedent for such a case. The members of the Supreme Council invite the high judicial authorities to consider the matter carefully, to find a legally, morally, and politically justifiable decision. Please consider the motives behind the conduct of the protestors of March 9th and the principle of the rule of law inherent in the world’s democratic judiciary, rather than the principles that seem to be based on the law, and in fact the sanctification of the rule of law. This will testify to the efforts of the judicial authorities of Ukraine to join the circle of democratic judicial systems of the world." I am voting for this appeal to the Supreme Court, the Kyiv Court of Appeal. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:07:38]] For 206 - 206. The factions, please. Decision taken. I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the principle of customer selection, privatization. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Law number 1136. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:08:28]] For 267 For 267. Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of Ukrainian State Property. The committee's proposal is based on the wording of the second paragraph of section 1 (1) of the Committee. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u171	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, above all, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the only form of accounting in Ukraine for privatization objects is bracelet. This bill proposes calculations in a foreign currency. So in fact today, the State Property Fund is not going to be able to control the coming of funds because the money will come directly to the bank. Besides, I think that here is Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, I think he can confirm that all operations are performed only in bracelets, and there have been no such cases until now. So I'm asking you not to support this relevant document, which actually today contradicts the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the only monetary unit that goes in Ukraine, that is, a bracelet. Thank you. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u172	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, who have a problem here, I would like to pay attention to it. When the payment for privatization takes place in a national currency, when the buyer is foreign, a large amount is immediately thrown into the currency market for conversion. For example, $200 million. The National Bank is forced to make over 1 billion dollars under this conversion. That is to say, this is a unique case where the once-in-a-lifetime acquisition of large objects in large sums can provoke course destabilization and inflationary expectations, as this is linked to a large amount of purchases. This may not be common. So this is an exception to the National Bank that I would support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u174	National Deputy Teryohin. And then we ask the head of the holding fund to express our point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! You and I have struggled for about four years to establish a monetary regime in our country. In Ukraine, there is only one payment instrument according to the Constitution of Ukraine, which is a Ukrainian bracelet. There's no show going on, National Bank, if that's what's going on in the currency market, it's going to run, if necessary, a cluster and then sterilization. And every banker knows how to sterilize an excess of money. So I would ask you not to agree to this decision, absolutely Seminyuk law, we can't privatize another payment instrument -- the US dollar. This is, again, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u176	Please, Alexandre Mikolaiovich, State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u177	Deputies! I literally have a few words. When this issue was discussed, I said that this project made no sense because there were virtually no such cases and there would be no foreign investor taking part in privatization. He always registers a legal person in Ukraine. I find it very strange that Victor Mikhailovich, who introduced the national currency and, as vice-premier, introduced the only currency in Ukraine, the bracelet. You don't have to make an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property for Adoption. [[13:12:25]] For-93 The decision is not taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Purpose Funds. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, there has indeed been some kind of conflict here. Despite the fact that the committee had made a positive decision on the bill, the committee had divided its views. What are we talking about? It is suggested that the appeal process be set up on tax charges that it will never be completed. If we accept this standard, then tax collection generally becomes an esoteric norm and can only be done through the court and only by compulsory collection. You can't do that, in my personal opinion, as an economist. And I'd like the government to say something about that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u180	National MP Burjak is head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill provides for a standard for securing the ability of taxpayers to exercise their legitimate rights to defend their interests in court and to prevent extra-judicial tax collection by tax authorities of taxpayers. And no matter what the committee announced and split up, I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u182	Thank you. From the government, please take your position. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. I just want to confirm what National Deputy Sergei Anatoliovich Teryohin said. Because these norms, which are predicted here, make such a conflict in legislation that it is practically possible in court to continue for tens of years and there will be no seduction. It's on the one side. On the other hand, it is the duty of a tax payer to appeal to a court instead of having the right under the law to reconcile his, as it were, payment obligations in the judicial order. Thus, the government strongly denies the adoption of this Law, which is what the committee was asked to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u183	National MP Avramenko. Only, Your Honor, are we voting now. I see a hand, name just say it. Girlfriend? Cossack, I'm sorry. Avramenko, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u184	Dear Vladimir Mikhayolovich, distinguished deputies, I want to tell you how it is in real life. I have a lot of respect for people who collect taxes, but I'll give you an example from life. If the entity cannot recover its money on the export VAT train. What should we do? Judgement. Starting to judge, the tax administration is finding all kinds of horns to prevent this process. We're starting to appeal. One instance, two, three. Once we reach the tax office, we appeal to the court, as soon as we apply to the court, the tax administration, which exists today, has the right to contravene everything it deems necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u185	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u186	That is why I believe that this is the harshest blow to our country's economy. You can't let that happen. You have to vote for that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u187	National Deputy Kozachenko. Dear colleagues, are we now going to be determined by the vote? This vote is coming, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u188	I want to support my previous colleague and speak out against what Sergey Terrohin says. He says there's a standard. Which you can't accept, but the norm that exists today, I'll be brief. If the tax came, wrote an act that was absurd, the company accused the act first in the district tax facility, then in the district, then in the central. I got a negative. An enterprise is going to court, and once it has filed a complaint with the court, that act of taxation is considered to be agreed upon immediately. On what basis do taxpayers withdraw money from the company? Then judge and take the money back from the state. You know what it's like.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u190	"For," has to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u191	All right, Carmazin. I ask you once again, Your Honor, we are not now acquiescing for or against, there is a committee decision and we must vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider what we are discussing. We are discussing whether to abide by the Constitution or not. So the Czernovetsk People's Deputy, the draft of this law is designed to ensure that the rule of the Constitution is. Thus, the adoption of this law will prevent tax authorities from withdrawing money from tax payers ’ accounts before the court. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u194	Accept this law, everyone will thank you for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u195	I'm betting on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Trust Funds. [[13:18:02]] For 393 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft amendment bill. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole of this project as a law, this is number 1266. [[13:18:37]] For 341 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Due to amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine]] The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of this bill's draft number 2003. Please vote. [[13:19:13]] For 376 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have a proposal: let's vote in favour of including a review of the law amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code so that the reporter can prepare. Is there no objection? I am voting on the inclusion of Ukraine in the agenda and today on the amendment of Ukraine's Criminal and Procedural Codes, number 2577. Please vote. [[13:19:54]] For 340. I'm asking you to prepare for the report, and we'll look at it now. I'm introducing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Collective Agreements and Agreements Act. It's a new edition. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. No objections? I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of this bill's draft number 1042. Please vote. [[13:20:30.]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a bill on telecommunications. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. With motive? Please. Now I'm going to ask the head of the committee briefly, and then he's going to be motivated.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u196	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, a lively discussion of the telecommunications bill in the past and the proposals that have come to this have shown, on the one hand, an understanding of the vast majority of my colleagues of the relevance and urgency of its approval in the first reading. On the other hand, there have been a number of major flaws that I do not fully recognize as a coauthor and head of the profiling committee. I want to say the next thing we've done is we've made a table of all the suggestions that have been made. in the process of discussion by the national deputy Karmazin, the national deputy Tomenka, the national deputy of Crnovola, the national deputy of School, the national deputy of Pavlovski, the national deputy of Assadchev, Baraniov and the Committee on Budget Affairs. I mean, there were questions about three articles: article 27, paragraph 3, article 34, and article 58, article 72. We believe that it can be accepted as a whole, and these articles, which I added to the second reading, can be reconciled with both the budget committee and with the people’s deputies who made the proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Assadchev, please. Please focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u198	Thank you. Valeriy Pavlovich, you've rightly called those articles, really, which raise a little bit of doubt, but accept it in the first reading, not in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u199	Yes, in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u200	I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law on telecommunications.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u201	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u202	On the basis of the first reading. Well, no problem. Taking into account the suggestions made by Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko. [[13:22:54]] For-138 The factions. I'll ask the Secretariat, I don't have a voting button. Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u203	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The law is really, really important, and I think if we don't make a decision today to approve it in some form, we're going to do the wrong thing, because then we won't be able to go back to that question in this session. So I'm making the following proposal that we approve this law in the first reading except, I would like to stress, except for those articles that were listed by the reporter. That is, in this quality, our faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading except for the articles mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u204	I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on telecommunications by deleting articles that have been put to the head of the committee by Valérie Pavlovich Pavlovytenek. Please vote. [[13:24:31]] For 204 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u205	I'm saying good-bye. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that most people don't vote. I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u206	I'm voting for the re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u207	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I want to say the next time it's happened, when I've done a report on this law, I've said that as we develop telecommunications, our state is the last place in the world. And it's this law that makes it possible to continue to work on development in this particular area, that it provides development. Today, the telecommunications of rural, mountainous areas have developed throughout Ukraine. And I ask you for the last time to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u208	I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Telecommunications by deleting those articles that have been mentioned in the protocol today. Well, I'd like to vote to keep us working! We returned, we voted, dear colleagues! For God's sake, vote him over, we'll figure it out. [[13:25:42]] For 218. To - 218. I am voting for re-reading the draft Telecommunications Act. Please vote. [[13:26:04]] For 279 For -279, the decision is made. I am voting on a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act on the relationship between sellers and consumers. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft of this law, number 1214. Please vote. Ah, Dry Jaroslav, please. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u209	Dear national deputies, well, the situation in which the committee came to be seems rather strange and unlikely. So according to the commission of the committee head who got sick yesterday, I apologize to the hall for disorienting the hall when we proposed to support the bill. The committee yesterday decided to reject the bill because we had first received unreliable information. I'll explain what this is about. If a person in a village buys a motorcycle and has problems, he cannot change the bike. He has to pay for his expertise, take it there, and so on, judge, and so forth. As a result, the committee made a decision yesterday and sent a draft rejection order here. And we ask you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u210	I have an offer, honourable national deputies, to entrust the committee with further work and to make a written proposal, because we cannot vote. Right? Is there no objection? I am voting on the draft Act amending articles 71 and 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine concerning the procedure for involving workers on holidays and non-working days. You know this document, we had a lively discussion. But the committee is offering to take it as a basis. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft of this law, number 1035. Please vote. [[13:28:15.]] For 377 For 377. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities in respect of the Patent for the Implementation of National Production Packages. Again, you remember the discussion, the reporter was Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Please, just a very short, dry remnant, Vladimir Kirilovich
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the bill is about granting extended patents for the implementation of the country’s production codes. This will help create new jobs, increase the production of our notebooks and ensure our schools. The committee wants to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u212	I know that Roman Zvaric said that it should not be accepted because it is contrary to the European Union. Am I saying it right? Please, cook. And I remember the national deputy Shevchuk also expressed his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u213	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are absolutely right, I was speaking on my behalf about the fact that this bill directly and directly contradicts the General Agreement on Tariffs and Services, a document that is the core document of the World Trade Organization. I am now speaking for the commission of the European Integration Committee, which I am the deputy head. So the committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject this bill as one that is on the verge of our accession to the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u214	Thank you. National Deputy Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. And now we're going to vote. This is a repetition of the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u215	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Shevchuk, NDP faction. I'm not going to repeat Roman Zvaric's words. I'll just say that the Euro Integration Committee cannot accept the position of this project. Because if we start with the notebooks, let's continue with the footballs, because we have football lessons, as you know, in schools. But all of this would be contrary to the principles of the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u216	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich, one word. Do we vote that we repeat ourselves? Please. I beg you, Yuri Anatoliovich, I know your position, I remember you were speaking on this occasion. Why repeat yourself?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! If the Committee on European Integration continues to do so, we will never be in the WTO or in the European Union. The most liberalized country in the world is constantly implementing protectionism policies. Bush does this all the time, he forbids us to take metal there, take our products, get into conflict with the WTO, and he's running his defense policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u218	I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities in respect of the Patent for the Implementation of National Production Packages. Please vote. [[13:31:38]] For 246 Decision taken. What's the committee's offer? There's one word "suture," can he take it in general? I'm betting on the adoption vote as a whole, as a law, this project is number 1034. Vote, please, Your Honor, determine what you think is necessary. [[13:32:04]] For 289 The law is passed. I am voting on the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal interference with electricity networks. You remember that we also discussed it for a long time. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Law No. 1031. Please vote. [[13:32:40]] For 274 A decision has been made. I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences, on the size of fines for breach of accounting procedures. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Act No. 1076. [[13:33:20]] For 369 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ukraine's Culture, State and Perspectives of Development" of 11.12.2002. The committee's proposal is to support it. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft of this ruling. Please vote. [[13:33:53]] For 367 Decision taken. If there's no objection, I'm voting on the whole project as a ruling. Please vote. [[13:34:16]] For 374 I'll take the order. I would like to announce a draft of the Ukrainian State Property Fund Report on the implementation of the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002, 2001. There are two draft decisions: the Semenyuk People's Deputies Project, and the Committee on Economic Policy, Demjochin and the Kings. Please select the authors of the projects. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u219	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the first draft of the ruling is a draft of a special commission on privatization. At many points, it is intertwined with the Economic Policy Committee, just the differences at one point in its report to the public. So I'm asking you to support 2459 and out of the decision 2459-1 to take this supplement and take this draft decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u220	What are some other suggestions? I'll put the vote in order. There's no committee? Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u221	Dear People's Deputies, I ask you to support the Committee's draft decision. We believe that the Fund's report should be approved. I beg your pardon. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u222	I'll bet the vote on the order of arrival. Draft decree on the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002 for 2001. The Semenyuk People’s Deputy Project, with proposals made by the People’s Deputy Semenyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[13:36:15.]] For 101 For 101, no decision is taken. I am voting on the draft Decree on the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002 2001 under the heading 2459-1 from the Committee. Please vote. [[13:36:47]] For 285 For -285. And now we have to put it all together, and that was the basis. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of this draft decree as a whole, number 2459-1. Please vote. [[13:37:14]] For 303 For -303, the decision is made. I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code. The committee's proposal is to take the basis for it as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. Please vote. [[13:37:46]] For 384 Is there no objection? I'm voting for acceptance. Please, Onichuk Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u223	Dear friends, a moment of attention, a very important question. From January 1, the following year, four days later, the new Ukrainian Family Codex should be in force. We've just voted in favour of having a chapter on care and care that's not in this Family Code because it has to be in a new one that doesn't yet exist, the Civil Code, the old one. However, respected friends, at the time of the adoption of the Family Codex, meant that he would act simultaneously with the new Civil Code and he was already making textual references to articles of the new Civil Code. So I'm asking, because we voted as a basis, to vote in general, with the addition that the term of action, the introduction of the Family Code should be reconciled, that is to put it into effect at the same time as the new Civil Code. Thank you very much for your attention. This requires the entire legal community.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u224	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code as a whole, number 1328. Please vote. Yeah, yeah, yeah, considering the offer. [[13:39:11]] For 386 Decision taken. I am introducing a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u225	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code are related to our adoption of the Law on the Laundering and Legalization of Dirty Funds, which we are now supplementing with appropriate changes in relation to the FATF position. They are also related to the need to harmonise Ukrainian criminal and criminal procedural legislation into European legislation and to comply with the requirements of the Strasbourg Convention, which we ratified in the year 97. This is about changes to the two articles of the Criminal Code - article 198 - article 209 - which, at this point in time, cannot do what we have foreseen to do in combating the dirty costs of our functions, as well as the inclusion in the Criminal Code of the new article 209 with the '1' badge and the exclusion from the Criminal Code of article 306 in connection with our adoption of these novels into the Criminal Code. Short for these changes. They are related to the need to step up the fight against the laundering of dirty funds, to create the conditions for them to be legalized in Ukraine, to work for the Ukrainian economy, and to ensure an international fight against legalization and the laundering of dirty funds in the event that funds obtained from drug trafficking, weapons and other serious international crimes could be washed outside Ukraine, but could be obtained outside Ukraine, but could be legalized, washed in Ukraine’s territory. In this case, article 209 cannot work because it does not foresee a similar distribution of legal formulas. Finally, the point is that article 209, which is the main reason for our discussion with you in the session room, refers to the category of so-called middle-level crimes. But given that these crimes are generally committed by an organized criminal group, for which the Criminal Code provides for penalties of deprivation of liberty from the age of 10 to 15, and for these crimes, as provided for in article 209, we foresee crimes only up to three years of deprivation of liberty, it is a matter of the gravity of the act that has been committed in the very essence of the crime of laundering, that does not exactly correspond to the actual situation, not only from the point of view of its state, but also from the point of view of the danger of the criminal being committed and the danger of the criminal himself. I propose to accept these changes in the first reading not to hold a deep discussion, given that we are conducting it today at first reading as a concept and to focus on its adoption as a whole at the next plenary week so that all proposals by national deputies that may have a place were included by the committee for the adoption of this law as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u226	Thank you. Please, Gregory Omelyanovich Omelchenko of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u227	Gregory Omelchenko, Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, we discussed a bill that our colleague, Stephen Gavrish, passed. Indeed, the proposals that he has proposed are clarifying and improving the drafting of article 209 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is the first. The second, the new article, which introduces 209-1, specifies what is the laundering of dirty money for which crimes are criminally responsible, and the changes that are made are proposed by Stephen Gavrish to the Criminal Procedure Code, which is the consequence of investigating these criminal cases. Whatever the case, we have adopted an international FATF law aimed at countering the legalization of the laundering of dirty money and these additions and amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedures, they come out, honourable colleagues, organically. And we have to adopt them, because without the adoption of this law, in large measure, the law that we have adopted on the opposition to the legalization of dirty money, it will not work if we do not have criminal responsibility, clearly the law will not define the methods and methods that are committed and which are criminal. And another thing is, the comments that our Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate made, it emphasized that they were allowed to adopt article 209 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, so let's say, problems that allow for different, double interpretations of the positions that were written there. And given what the Ukrainian national deputy Stepan Gavrish has proposed, and with the comments that have been made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and the Committee's evaluation of the fight against corruption and organized crime, I propose that you support the adoption of this law as a basis for the first reading. You'll have the opportunity to make some, maybe change, addition, so that we can then, literally, maybe in January, want to do it, adopt it as a law as a whole. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support for Stepan Havrish's bill and for the proposal of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime to adopt this bill under number 2577 on amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, well, they listened to the argument. I would ask you now: let's vote and take it as a basis, and let's put it on the committee and let them work on this bill, and then we'll deal with it in detail. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes Act. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[13:46:23]] For 335 For 335, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, I have an offer here. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider draft decrees on the subjects of the Supreme Council Committees. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk asks for a postponement. Unless there are any objections to the Rules of Procedure. They say that as if with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, they find common ground. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, we could do it now. I'd like your attention, and I'd like to consult you. You and I could now consider the question of the election of judges. Why am I talking about this? We've invited the judges twice, and we haven't considered the questions twice, so we're proposing this to the committee today. The question is, we didn't invite judges. As for those who have doubts, put off. And those who have no doubt to vote because of the matter. I say again, if there's any doubt about the judge, we want to see him and listen to him, we don't discuss the question about him. Is there no objection? Please, from the committee, who will report? Names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has received a hearing from the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the election of judges of local and appeal courts of more than 50 people. This is precisely the case when the Supreme Council creates power, the third judicial authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u230	I'm specifically asking for names.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u231	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered this submission at its meeting and recommends to you the draft Supreme Council Decision on appointment of judges of the following judges, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u232	Please listen to the name, please. Well, he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u233	The Court of Appeal of the Žitomir Region is to appoint Kašapov Aleksija Semenović and Rakalovich Viktor Mihajlovich The Court of Appeal of the Zakarpathian Region is Hotra Tatjana Yuriyevna. Kyiv County Court of Appeal - Zaricka Anastasia Alexievna, Zubara Valentina Vasilovna, Korzachenko Arina Fedorovna, Leontovich Katerina Grigorovna, Mazurko Volodymir Antonovich, Maležik Neonila Ivanovna, Nazarchuk Rostislav Antonovich, Chervinko Katerina Stepanovna, The Court of Appeal of the Sumu district of Batuk Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicke District of Vashchenko Sergey Evgeniyovich, Tereshuk Petr Xinofontovich The Court of Appeal of Kiev Bartashtck Ludmila Viktorovna, Bilan Natalija Alexandrovna, Glask Leonid Fedorovich, Kravec Valentin Arkadyovich, Moroz Larissa Leontiyevna, Ratnikova Valentina Mikolayevna, Ukrainian Ludmila Dmitrovna, Shepurin Tatiana Mikhailovna. [[respected colleagues, considering]] The Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Muupík Eugenia Yuriovna The local Vladimir Wallin City Court of Volin County of Mojajska Hanna Dmitrovna Local Kovell City Court of Wallin County Vasiluk Oleg Stepanovich, Panasuk Sergey Leonidovich. Local Lutsky City Court of Volin County
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u234	Local Kowalski, please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u235	I'm sorry. Koval District Court of Volin District of Lunov Tamara Mikolayivna The local court of the Lutsky City Court of Wallin County of Verenczuk Ludmila Mikolayivna, Ostapčuk Viktor Ivanovich The local Lubishtin district court of Volinsky district Gladic Natalia Ivanovna. Local New Volin City Court of Volin County, Sveredua Anatoli Volodymyrovich. Local Ratnius District Court of the Volin district of Lukyanczuk Tetjan Sidorovna, Laja Vasil Ivanovich Local District Court of Volin County Pazuk Alexander Stepanović Local Staroviživsky District Court of the Volinski Coast of Kuzminec Alexander Mikolaiovich Local Turi district court in Volin district Bestá Grigori Borisovich Local Provincial Court of Zacarpathia, Rizko Hanna Ivanovna Local Swalava District Court of the Zakarpat district of Gigansk Natalia Mikhailovna Local Borispilla City Court of Kiev Sagan Valentina Mikhailovna Local Vishgorod District Court of Kyiv district of Kuprienko Sergey Isaaković Local Regional Court of Kyiv District Yuzik Mikhailo Mikolaiovich The local Kyiv-Svetoshin district court of Kyiv district of Medvid Natalia Alexandrovna. Local District Court of Kiev - Galic Yuri Mihajlovich, Melniczuk Vladimir Petrovich Local Saratsk District Court of Odessa, Bushulara Vadim Ivanovich Local Glossievsky District Court of Kiev - Međević Mikhailo Volodymyrovic Local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev - Skorina Helen Ivanovna The local right-wing district court of Kiev - Vsilieva Margarita Anatoliyovna and Polyvac Love Dimitrovna Local Obolonian District Court of Kiev - Prudnik Oleg Anatoliyovich Local Delhi District Court of Kiev - Decalenko Valentina Stepanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u236	By procedure, please, Babourin
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u237	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Vladimir Mihajlovich, why are we now feigning inference. There's no more mess than in our courtrooms. Not even in the M.V.A. today. Today, we want to establish judges in absentia for the rest of our lives. Although it was decided on the Committee that, before the judges were approved, their candidatures should appear in the local press so that our electors could present specific claims to each judge. We're in absentia today. Even the judges aren't here to tell them their "fe." There is no more lawlessness than in the courts, Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u238	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u239	Dear colleague, you have raised an entirely correct question as to the fact that the procedure for bringing judges to the mark is not perfect. Two draft laws have been introduced to your knowledge of me, as well as other colleagues of mine, particularly Deputy Vasiliev, more faithfully by one law, another draft Supreme Council ruling, which provides for a procedure for the promotion, introduction and consideration of submissions by the Supreme Council regarding the election of judges on an uninterrupted basis. These include those judges who are nominated for the Supreme Council’s appointment on a timely basis, and information about them should be disseminated in the media of the local authorities where they work so that we can settle this. But to this day, dear friends, this is not yet defined by law, therefore.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u240	Thank you, of course. National MP Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u241	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, on behalf of the faction of the Socialists, we protest against violating the procedure for the appointment of judges, we choose to enjoy judges whom we do not see in our eyes. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said that if anyone was questioned or questioned, the question would be put off. So in our faction, we have doubts about all the candidates proposed. After yesterday’s verdict, when 15 innocently sentenced to high prison terms, we have doubts about all the judges in Ukraine. And please don't violate the Rules, bring the judges to the rostrum today, we've got plenty of half-legal Tihyp. Do you want to choose half-legal judges forever?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, the will of the Supreme Council will be what will be the will of the Supreme Council. But I would like to say, Your Honor, we're breaking the Rules ourselves, and we've tried the judges twice, we've never seen them in the face of these judges, they've sat up there. If we had a question, the judge was asked a question in front of the microphone. If you have questions right now, specific claims to a particular judge, let's postpone his consideration. If you feel that it is necessary not to decide on the question of the authority of judges, so that they do not exercise justice, so that people sit while they wait for trial, and so on, let us continue to uphold the law. But at the same time, we're going to adopt a law that's being proposed by the People's Deputy Oneschuk and a group of colleagues, and then we're going to set up a clear procedure that will provide for a decision to be taken. Well, there'll be a principle then. Please, Leveko Lukyanenko. If we don't want to look at it, we don't want to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u243	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction You know, our judicial system has not yet become independent, it is completely subordinated to the executive power. Hence, the problem of assigning judges today is extremely important. Ukraine has been independent for 11 years, and we have not yet achieved that the judiciary is a separate authority. I'm sorry, this is where it went wrong. I say that the Ukrainian judicial system in 11 years did not become a separate authority, a third authority, and the judicial system today is subordinated, as it was in Soviet times, to the executive authority. We have had this experience tens of times, and especially yesterday, we were convinced that the entire indictment was based on what the defendants had done, and nothing says what the authorities had done. Hence, the problem of assigning judges today is the problem of forming a new judiciary. I'm asking you to put that question down. On behalf of the Julia Timoshenko faction, I propose that this be postponed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u244	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u245	The cloud, the Julia Timoshenko faction, the Motherland Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The issue of a judge's approval is a very important question, and so we would like to make sure that we don't really buy a cat in a bag. The paradox is that we form the most important branch that has to do justice without their presence, without being able to communicate with them. And it's not our fault we came back in time, and we didn't. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is no problem in all courts, there is a certain number of judges and justice will be carried out, and today let us begin to take this matter seriously. And that's why I'm proposing to postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u246	Thank you. He's a national deputy. Then you're together, in general. People’s MPs Kafarsky and Vaszczuk
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the position expressed today by Leukko Lukyanenko, but we are confusing two things. There is a system by which we choose judges today, and there is a problem that needs to be changed. Perhaps we should even go back to the experience of selecting judges and selecting them by the people and later vote in the Supreme Council. But today we have to take decisions on those judges who have passed the committee discussion procedure. They came here twice. We didn't hold any meetings. So I'm asking you to vote for these people, and I'm asking you to think about what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u248	Please, Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u249	Catherine Vaschuk, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Respectful colleagues who listened attentively noted that on the list of more than ten judges from our Volin region. I was asked by the vagrants to make a big request that the paralyzed work of the courts is in business, and we do not approve of people. Dear colleagues to us, each and every one of us. I'm not allowed to go to the committee in the process of preparing for the hearing of the people's judges here in the Supreme Council, because the committee reports to all the parliamentary groups and factions to study every court's case, to study what kind of people they are. We can't put a stamp like that, because all the judges are unfair and unfair. And we're ordering people who wanted to come and meet us today, but we couldn't. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u250	Thank you. Vladimir Filenko and we'll be on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u251	Vladimir Philenko, the faction of our Ukraine, a member of the legal committee, which included dealing with these judges that we were about to approve today. Colleagues, of course, have a positive argument and those who say they should vote without judges and those who claim otherwise. But I want to go to one argument. Here the majority were once admitted to the party, even to that party. When was it that the bureau of the Paradise Party would join the CPRS without anyone? So this is what happened, people good! But let's just look at them, and they'd come to us if they were here, feel some responsibility. Because right now we really want to devalue those values. What judges should feel, we demean them by voting for them, for them without their presence. They also understand the political situation, and nothing will happen if they come to the Supreme Council again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Just a minute. Dear people's deputies, let's be calm, we'll make a decision now. Most of the time, we have emotions. Dear colleagues, judges have come here twice, they've looked at us twice. Dear colleagues, the committee has a public discussion of the matter, and all those who wanted to demonstrate principle and objectivity had the opportunity to meet, had the opportunity to communicate individually. I'd ask you to come right now calmly, carefully, without emotion. Let's do another procedure. There'll be another procedure. Let us consider those who are awaiting a fair judgment and make the right decision. Your will is not to be determined, so do not be determined. For the reasons of Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u253	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to stress here, first of all, that the judges have come here several times, but we don't have to humiliate their status. And here, I'm afraid there are a lot of normal judges, I'm sure of that. But I'm afraid that this spirit of contradiction, that they didn't come here in a way that we can't see, people can vote against. When they get here, you can support them, you can ask them questions, right? This could happen. Any person can answer that question. So I would ask you, I think our faction will support these judges, but I would like their presence here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u254	Dear colleagues! Please, Mikola Onichuk. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, two words literally. First of all, the procedure itself. You and I seem to be consecrating what happened before they prepared for the Supreme Council. Because people came to Kiev, they went to the Higher Qualifying Commission. People came to the committee, which dealt with each case personally. People came here twice for a meeting of the Supreme Council. Second, respectable colleagues. Note that the judges of the local courts, they work today, they have expired the terms by which they were appointed by the President's decrees for five years. If we do not appoint them today, they cannot exercise justice, they simply cannot pass judgments and make decisions. Dear colleagues, I think we've put a little politics on such an important issue when it comes to assigning judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u256	I'm asking the people's deputies not to disperse.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u257	Thank you very much. I'm asking you on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u258	From the Ministry of Justice, please. Now there's going to be a break, well, let's get to the logical conclusion. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice is asking you in order of exclusion to support the position taken by the deputy chairman of the committee, Onischuk. The thing is, we've been rounding up judges twice, they've come from all over Ukraine, they've come twice. And this, believe me, experienced judges, they've had the experience of working for 10 years or more. And so it turned out that many of them have been in office for two or three months now and are unable to administer justice. So the judicial system across Ukraine, and this is a judge from all over Ukraine, is in a critical situation. I understand: they should be here, you should look them in the eye. But they passed the Higher Qualifying Commission, they were on the Committee. And they've practically passed those tests. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I bet. As one last argument. We want to be respected as national deputies. Let us respect them. I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges number 2514. Please vote. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Please vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-12-26-m0.u260	Please, let's vote. [[14:06:51]] For 205 The factions, please. I'm asking you once again: mobilize, well, what's the matter, please, dear fellows. I'm going to vote again. Please mobilize. Mikola Onichuk, please vote. I'm betting on the voting bill of Decree 2514 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Judges. Please vote. Well, what's Tihypco doing here? Please vote. We voted, there were cases. [[14:07:31]] For the 220. I ask the committee to address matters according to procedure, then we'll come back after recess. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Break till 4:00.
