ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Please take your seats. We'll get to work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:03:11]] Registered -369 There were 369 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there was a fire on the Mine of the Donetsk region that led to numerous human casualties. Please honor the memory of the dead miners. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please welcome to the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Taran Viktor Vasilovich. [[Applause]] And our colleagues, whose birthday was due during the plenary sessions, Boyko Viktor Alexiyovich, Galijev Ernest Eduardoovich, Franchuk Igor Anatoliyovich, Vasily Ivan Vasilovich, Tanjuk Leonid Stepanovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, taking into account the need for rapid action to overcome the consequences of the Ukraine mine crash, the proposal is made to include this issue in the agenda and to vote on it as an exclusion today before the government day. At the same time, I would ask that we also vote in favour of the schedule of meetings for this plenary week, as we agreed on at the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, I bet. Out of the procedure, National Deputy Matvienko, please. National MP Matvienko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. [[Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko]] . Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday, really, there was a conversation at the Conciliation Council on the agenda, and we agreed that before we approved the agenda that was given, we would vote on the question of impeachment. And I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to fulfill our agreement. I'm talking to everyone who went to the Supreme Council today, so that we can finally understand that we're protecting people's interests. People today want the answer: Is the National Council able to lay down the law and the Constitution, the Supreme Council, to lay down the law and the Constitution above and independently of officials to ask today for violations of the law and the Constitution. And those who came under our President's flag today, let's help the President finally get rid of the great claim of violations of the law and the Constitution. That's why we're all interested in voting, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for impeachment. This is a normal democratic procedure to remove all discontent in our country. Let's vote, let's put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich, if we came to this question, I would inform the national MPs of the consideration and suggestions that they were. I don't think we should rush ahead of the developments. I'll let the MPs know about this. I'm voting on the proposal that we now take a decision on draft decrees 1322, 1321 and 1320 on the schedule of meetings, and then we'll look at each individual document. Please. It's all right, Anatoly Sergiyovich, I ask you to listen carefully! I'm now asking the question that we define ourselves as an exception now to vote and to make these decisions, then we're going to consider each individual issue. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[10:08:06]] For 268. "For" - 268. Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, there is a draft decision on measures to deal with the consequences of the crash at the "Ukraine" mine of the State Holding Company Selidowwogil. The chairman of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has been sneezing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to briefly tell you what a tragedy we had at Donbass on the mines of the "Ukraine" production association Selidougal. On 7 July, at 1:00 50 minutes, at the “Ukraine” mine of the Selidowogol production group on the ZL-1000 conveyor, located in a 570-metre tilted conveyor quarrie. I mean, there was a fire at a depth of 570 meters. The dispatcher called the paramedics immediately. The miners were already on the mine for 2 hours for 25 minutes and the evacuation of the miners began. There were 114 miners in the mine at the time of the fire. Of these 114 miners, 85 were directly in the accident zone, that is, where the fire took place. The air current had been reversed and people had been taken out. Unfortunately, not everyone was able to be taken out alive. By two o’clock in the afternoon, 33 people had been found dead and the last two had been found by six o’clock in the evening. In all, 35 people were killed on the "Ukraine" mine of the Selidov Coal Production Association. Two people are now in a firehouse in a very difficult condition, and 11 are also in a satisfactory hospital. The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fuel and Energy Complex has prepared a draft regulation on measures to deal with the consequences of the crash in the Ukraine mine of the State Holding Company Selidov Coal. This regulation proposes the allocation of 4 million bracelets to deal with the consequences of the accident. In addition, 2 million will be allocated to the centre of traumatology and 3 million will be allocated to the burner centre from funding for the restructuring of the coal industry. In addition, the Committee proposes a number of activities that will need to be undertaken in the preparation of the 2003 budget in the implementation of the coal programme. These activities are also included in the regulation. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the vote, and it is now by the vote of the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the question is obvious, it is understandable, urgent, and painful. Is there no need to discuss it? Honorary colleagues who are in favour of adopting this draft Supreme Council Decision on Measures to Overcome the Impact of the Accident on the Ukraine Mine of the State Holding Company at Selidivwogil, this is number 1322, on the basis of which I would like to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u6	Please vote yes. [[10:12:41]] For the 320.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u7	To - 320. Suggestions? Note? All of it? The Yavorowski People's Deputy, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear reporter, well, Ukrainian coal is bloody coal. And every accident is some kind of horrifying sign. More than once, approvals were received to assist families of fallen miners. And we know how cynically and fearfully these decisions were not followed. You know that very well. I just want to know, by voting now for this document as a whole, I'm willing to vote for it and I think everyone is voting, but what guarantees are there that this will be done quickly, quickly and clearly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u9	We will take control, the Committee and the members of the Committee will take personal control over the implementation of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u10	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Julia Tymoshenko's faction, Fatherland's Party. That's my question. The point is that we make a few of these decisions every year, and the matter is not moving. The point is, in Ukraine, the technology of mine degassing is proposed. It was introduced in the United States, Britain. And today, in the United States, 3 coal miners die by 100 million tons, and in Ukraine, about 100 miners, in Great Britain, 6. So this money that the administration of the Donetsk region spends on bringing 30,000 killers into football twice can be solved and started with a coal degasification program. My direct appeal to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Energy with specific proposals, who, as may be able to begin this program, is somehow not being considered. So the point is that we need to take it seriously. And what's important here is technologically solve the problem of mine degassing. How to decide, this technology is. It needs to be done, not put off for later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u12	I'm in. You're absolutely right. The problem is that there is a degassation programme for Donbass, not only for Donetsk but also for Lugansk, in the Dnepropetrov areas. The fact is that this programme exists. But more than $500 million is needed to implement it. Therefore, these are huge means that must be addressed not only by the State but also by large foreign investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u13	National Deputy Cranville, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u14	Dear reporter, I certainly support the decision - making process. But since I did not have some of the material of the decree itself, I was given some warning about the last words you said in the report that this was a provision for some other measure of change in the coal sector. Sorry if there are specific funds to help affected miners and their families. It's absolutely clear, it's a sacred thing, so other things need to be specified.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u15	I'm specific. This is the implementation of the Corner of Ukraine Programme. Next. This is to prepare proposals for the development of mining regions for the budget and proposals during implementation, the preparation of the budget for 2003. It's a question of mine degassing, what was asked before. A joint think-tank is being set up to study the problems of the coal industry and to prepare proposals to address the crisis in the industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u16	National Deputy Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u17	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. You just said that the miners were immediately dispatched. Yesterday, the media reported that they were being targeted with some delay. Tell me what is causing this diversity of information on your part and on the part of the media. Second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give a written commission to the committee, let him say how much money was spent on fireworks, parties and so on during the seventieth anniversary of such a celebration. So that we know how to relate what's being spent on mines, on their reconstructions, everything else and how much money we're spending, again, people's, on what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u18	I'm in. I reported that the fires were detected in 1.50 minutes, and the miners were triggered in 2 hours 25 minutes, 30 minutes apart. I have a clear stenogram of the mining service.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! We obviously need to make the right decision now, and those other issues are important, urgent, and need to be resolved. As for the cost of celebrating the 70th anniversary, we are about to prepare and direct such an assignment to inform the national MPs. Your Honors would like to make a determination regarding the decision in general. I'm betting on a total vote of 1322 on measures to deal with the impact of the crash on the Ukraine mine of the state holding company Selidivwogil. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u20	Please vote yes. [[10:18:54]] For 335
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u21	"For" is 335, the decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u22	Thank you. There'll be a funeral at 12.45. Members of the committee are now going to funerals. Any other fellow MPs who want to join us, please, we're leaving now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! A draft decree is being tabled to list the daily earnings of Ukrainian national deputies to families who have been killed as a result of an accident on the mines of the state holding company Selidowwogil. Do we need to discuss this? I'll bet the vote on the draft. Please vote. [[10:19:47]] For 359 Decision taken. I bet, if you don't have any comments, the whole draft order at number 1321. Please vote. [[10:20:13]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! You will be given a draft decree on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 12 July 2002. I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that the project has been approved by the Conciliation Council, but a proposal has been made from the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, supported by some other factions, to ask us separately about the inclusion in the agenda of the 1177 meeting. This is a draft order for the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich from the post of President of Ukraine in the order of impeachment and the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry. Project of the People's Deputy Gregory Omelchenka. Then, honourable colleagues, the procedure is proposed: to accept the document as a basis, then to vote on the proposal for inclusion in draft regulation 1177. I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 12 July 2002 on the basis. Please vote. [[10:21:48]] For 263 For - 263, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 9-12 on the opening of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich from the post of President of Ukraine in the order of impeachment and the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry. [[by factions please date]] People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:22:38]] For-161 Z minus 161 in factions. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting together a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 9 to 12 July 2002. Please support, we must finish our work with dignity. Please vote. [[10:23:12]] For 251 For -251, the decision is made. The factions. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 20, this morning, the day of the Ukrainian government is held in the Supreme Council. The Prime Minister of Ukraine was supposed to be at this meeting, but this morning he flew to Donetsk for some reason. Members of the government are represented here. On the agenda of the day, two questions were raised: on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2002 and on the state of preparation for the 2002 harvest. With regard to the Rules of Procedure. The morning session, or 3 hours 30 minutes, is held to discuss both issues. The government’s Day predicts that a two - hour discussion of a matter will take 10 minutes. I suggest that, fellow believers, stick to the basic requirements of the situation, but shorten the time for questions to one hour in such a way that each of these matters takes about an hour of 40 minutes of working time. So it's suggested to take 15 minutes for a reporter to answer a question within an hour, to speak to a profile committee representative for up to 5 minutes, and to debate for up to 20 minutes. Is there no objection? Then we're going to listen to information about the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to heal children in the summer of 2002. He will report and answer questions from the head of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young Valentina Ivanovna. Please, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Caring for the health of children is one of the main indicators of the State’s attitude toward the problems of the growing generation. At the same time, the health situation of children in Ukraine is of the greatest concern. In recent years, there has been a trend in Ukraine to increase the prevalence of disease among children. For example, if there were 120,000 children per 100,000 children in 1999, in 2001, there were 122,000 children per 100,000. The chronic weight of children with chronic illness is increasing, and the disability is getting worse during school years. In view of this, and considering that the well - being and rest of children will have a positive impact on their health, the President of Ukraine has issued instructions that the Government has undertaken to develop the State Programme for Child Health and Recreation in line with the trade union agreement, as well as the Government's commitment this year to take extraordinary measures to significantly enhance the efforts of the State and local authorities to raise the number of children who will be cured in the summer. What the government has done during this period.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u25	Your attention, your colleagues, is very important and relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u26	First, the government has analyzed the recovery of children over the last five years and has done a very analytical analysis of the recovery of children in 2001. As a result of the analysis, we had eight and a half thousand different types of health facilities in our country last year, where one million and fifty thousand children were cured during the summer. Given that 10.7 million children in our country, given that of these 10.7 million people, 6.6 million are schoolchildren, the rate of recovery of children last year is slightly more than 15 percent. It should be noted that in the last five years, starting in 1995, there has been a tendency in Ukraine to increase the number of health facilities and to increase the number of healthy children. In 1995, we had 5,800 health facilities, where 885,000 children were cured. If again the health of children and the fact that about every other child is on a dissipation or has a disease, the government in its 2003 - 2005 national program has been tasked to increase the number of children who are getting better by at least 50 percent, from 3 to 3.5 million children in the next two years. In order to implement this program, including this year, and this year, the government and local authorities have planned to open 12 036 health facilities in the summer, 40 percent more than last year, to heal nearly 2 million children, which you understand is 2 times more than last year. For this purpose, the government has done its utmost for six months to coordinate the activities of local authorities, public organizations, businesses with health facilities, trade unions, and other various charitable funds. As a result, the government managed to raise spending on a 100 million more in summer health than it did in 2001. In particular, local budgets of district, urban and district levels provide for the rehabilitation of children of 131 million, from the Social Insurance Fund to be allocated 77.3 million, from the State Budget to 111 million 279 000 for the rehabilitation of children of the Black population, and also for the provision of funds for the rehabilitation of children at the International Children's Centre, Artek International, in the Youth Guard, provided for by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health. In total, the State budget provides 27 million dollars for this purpose. In addition, on June 5, the government made a decision, with which it allocated an additional 7 and a half million dollars for the rehabilitation of orphans, children deprived of parental care, children from vulnerable and multi-child families. Thus, this year 349 million dollars will be spent on the rehabilitation and recreation of children by the government and local authorities. In addition, on account of the actions taken by the government and local authorities, and these actions are aimed at implementing the Law on the non-explanation of VAT travels to health facilities, these actions are linked to the non-taxation of local taxes and health facilities, and these are the actions of local authorities to ensure the supply of food in children's health facilities, as is possible at a lower price. This makes it possible to spend a lot of money on the trip. The average cost of travel this year in children's health will be about 300 bracelets, although it certainly differs from that of a health camp and from that of a healing region. We do everything we can to make sure that our family can buy their own travel expenses and heal their children. According to a survey last year, about 13 percent of the money spent on raising children is the cost of families. I would like to inform you that about 120 social organizations of various, charitable foundations have joined the child - care organization this year as well. So we set ourselves a real challenge. And the process of testing this real task in June shows that in most areas it is very serious, and almost 12,000 health facilities are open. 53.9 million bracelets have already been allocated from local budgets. The state budget for July 8 was calculated with the State Committee on Family and Youth, with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Labour, and with the resources allocated to the child - care organization. How did we plan to increase the number of healthy children? First. This year, over 100 out-of-town health facilities are more open, and this year, 852 institutions will operate. It's different. In view of the need to reach as many children as possible with healthy rest, the Ministry of Education has organized work for three months at nearly 7,000,500 day - care camps, where children receive multiple meals, where children are resting, where children are working, and where children from underprivileged families are treated for free of charge. You know, we have a very large group of children that we always call state children with you. We have 100,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care. Last year, about 70 percent of them were cured. This year the Ministry of Education has planned to heal all children raised in boarding schools, and in general 83 percent of orphans, children deprived of parental care, will be cured. What I'm saying is that we still have a problem with the healing of children with disabilities. We now have 153,000 children with disabilities. Yet, only 5 percent of these children were cured last year. It is certainly not possible to increase the percentage of children with disabilities quickly, because such children need special approaches, special institutions. Yet the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the local authorities have organized work in such a way that 153,000 children with disabilities will be cured this year. 45,000 children with disabilities are more than 20 percent. You know that 10.7 million children are an extremely large group of children who have been affected by the Chernobyl disaster. That's 1 million 49,000 children. In order to heal all these children, this must be done in accordance with the law on the status of the people affected by the Chernobyl disaster, without a doubt, it is necessary for the budget to have an extremely large budget of 500 million dollars. Yet the budget for this year provides 111 million,279,000 dollars. This will enable the recovery of nearly 220,000 children. What steps are being taken by the Ministry of Emergency Situations? First, it made a commitment, developed a programme for the first-line recovery of children with disabilities who were disabled as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. [[We've got more than 3,000.]] It's different. To heal the majority of orphans who have the status of Chernobyl victims. I want to inform you that 40 million dollars have been allocated to the Ministry of Chernobyl in five months from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Ministry of Emergency Situations and this has enabled the recovery of nearly 72 thousand children, including 4,000 children with disabilities, orphans and almost a thousand children with disabilities. I want to say that the Ministry of Emergency Situations, along with the local authorities, has done everything in order to raise more than 3.5 million children in five months this year and to raise more than 7,000 children. The government and local authorities are doing everything they can to help raise children from large families. We have more than 400,000 children in Ukraine and have nearly 1 million children. In line with the program of government and local authorities for the rehabilitation of children this year, more than 600,000 children from multi - child families are scheduled to be healed. That's 35 percent, that's a percentage higher than the whole state. The government, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the State Committee on Family and Youth, which was commissioned by the President’s decree of April 15 to coordinate child health and rest activities, conducted a June examination of health facilities, held seminars, meetings, colleges, and considered this work to be organized locally. And the state that we have today, after the recovery of our children, gives us the confidence that the program, which is related to the increase in the number of children who will be cured this year, will be implemented in comparison with the previous year, twice as many as two million children will be cured this year. What are our shortcomings? First of all, not all local authorities have budgeted the cost of recovery. Secondly, not all local authorities came seriously to the beginning of the health campaign and in some areas, for example, in Lviv, Chernigiv, open health facilities not June 1st, but June 10-15th. Thirdly, we have only 15 percent of health facilities that cure children every year. In this regard, and if we want to, and we have to, of course, increase significantly the number of children who are getting better over the course of the year, we have set ourselves a task in the State Program "Organization of Child Health and Recreation." First, increase the number of camps that will work around the clock. Secondly, organize special camps for children with divinative behavior for children with disabilities. Thirdly, to develop incentives for the work of health facilities that are already privatized or stocked. Thirdly, make changes to legislation and legislation. Thus, an increase of 40 percent in the number of health facilities this year and 100 million in the national, local, budgeted budgets will make it possible to raise 2 million children. I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the national deputies working with the executive authorities, the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young People in Child Welfare, primarily the Committee on Youth Policy, Katerina Samojlik, the Udovenko Gennadiy Josephovich, who were directly involved in the meeting of the Committee of the State which considered these issues, Volodymyr Rybica, many other deputies, as well as those who directly and financially support the actions of both the State and non-State bodies, institutions, organizations that deal with child recovery. This is both Spig, and Salmin, and Sithina, and Dustyenko, and Bysarov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u27	Valentina Ivanovna, please answer the questions you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u28	Honourable National Deputies, in preparation for the government’s report to the Supreme Council on the organization of child recovery this year, have received more than 30 questions from you from the Ukrainian State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. We prepared written answers. With your permission, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will answer the written questions They don't want to write. Ready for your lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, according to procedure, first answer to written questions and then to oral questions. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council may make any decisions, but according to the Government Day procedure, it clearly states that the answers to written questions are 30 minutes, after the questions that have been answered to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the other Prime Minister-designated representatives answer the oral questions of the national MPs. Please, just tight and short.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your written questions, and you will certainly have fewer oral questions. First of all, how does the government plan to deal with the recovery of orphans and children deprived of parental care, I said, out of 100,000 orphans, we will be cured this year by 83,000 by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, which has 22 children's sanatoriums on its balance and 6,000 seats. What's the need to raise orphans? The need for the rehabilitation of orphans accounts for 100 percent of this year's average travel costs, about 30 million dollars, and we have practically this in the local and state budgets. "Was there a government order for the recovery of orphans, children without parental care?".. This is in line with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. "What steps are being taken by the government regarding the development of the International Children's Centre, Artek?" How many children in Ukraine are getting better here each year?".. In accordance with the government's decree of April 1998, measures have been approved for the development of the International Children's Centre, Artek, and other children's health facilities. This year, the national budget for the rehabilitation of children at the International Children's Centre Artek provides 14.4 million. The placement of children in Artec is in line with the position developed by the State Committee and approved by the Ministry of Justice. As a rule, about 13,000 children from Ukraine are being healed annually in Artec, which is about 60 percent of all children who are being healed at the International Children's Centre, Artek. Four changes this year have cured more than 7,000 children, including 2,000 children with disabilities, orphans and a thousand children with disabilities. "What has the Cabinet of Ministers done to spend the rest of children and adolescents?".. I have already answered that in my report. Local authorities take down local taxes and taxes, land rents, pay for utilities, and provide low - cost food supplies. The Cabinet of Ministers has approved a list of those health - care institutions that have been released in accordance with the law on the value added tax. "What are the prospects for the development of the Eupatoria resort as a national children's resort?".. You know that according to the President’s decree in 1998, Eupatoria is recognized as a national health resort and now operates 64 health facilities in Eupatoria, where 31,000 people, including 75 percent of the children, can be cured at the same time. This year, almost 100 percent of all European institutions will be filled. However, I want to say that there is a problem with filling the Eupatoria health facilities in the winter and filling up is about 20 percent, so the measures of the national health target program are foreseen for the development of the Eupatoria children's resort. Is the government financially and economically based on the need and capacity of the State to heal minors affected by the Chernobyl accident?" I answered that question for you. In order for all 100 percent of the children affected by the Chernobyl disaster to be cured, 1 million 49,000 children need to have about 500 million in the state budget. Now we have 111 million, we're going to ask you to increase this figure next year. Those kids who don't have the ability to get a trip, they, like adults, will get compensation from the State Budget. "How does the Cabinet of Ministers implement the decision of the Supreme Council, provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster?" This was at the beginning of the year, and the Supreme Council made a decision to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers increase by 70 million this year assimilation for the healing of the Chernobyl children. As you can see, the state of implementation of the budget this year is not yet possible to implement your recommendation. "What is the point that, apart from local self-government, dozens of ministries and departments are involved in the organization of child recovery?" Well, there's a management system, there's a rural, there's a city, there's a district council of national deputies, there's a Supreme Council. Yes, there are urban authorities working on child health, there is the Ministry of Health, which has 22 health and health facilities, which deal with these issues, there is the Ministry of Education, which has boarding schools and is responsible for the rehabilitation of children, there is the State Committee on Family and Youth Affairs, which is responsible for the rehabilitation of orphans, children deprived of parental care, and now there is the Ministry of Emergency Situations, which is responsible for the rehabilitation of children living with black people. As you can see, healing 2 million children is an extremely big job, and it can only be done by combining the efforts of the local authorities, the state and the central executive authorities. "How is organized control of the targeted use of budgetary resources?" All the funds from the State Budget that go to recovery, they, like other funds, go through treasury. And those central authorities through which funding is provided, they control, just like the Audit Chamber, and the Supervisory Authority. How does the government plan to heal children from underprivileged families and many children in 2002? I already said, 35, over 600,000 -- it's going to be 35 percent, while about 30 percent of the total is going to be cured by children. What is the status of the National Target Program for Child Health? I said this program was designed. Now, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, other central executive bodies, we have a financial basis for this program. And in November of the month, this program will be presented to the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like once again to thank the Committee of the Supreme Council of Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism for its understanding, support and assistance, including the development of this programme. During the years of independence, the network of children’s health facilities has nearly doubled. Is there an analysis of the reasons for the situation, what specific measures are being taken and whether an active network is being inventoryd? I want to say that every area, every city, every area, every district, is doing an inventory of children's health facilities. And the result of the inventory we're going to have on November 1st. I think that the comparison of the number of health facilities that are currently in operation, which are not in operation, in general, that are in our country with the number of health facilities that have been in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, is not entirely valid, because we had an extremely large number of allied facilities, first. Secondly, you know that many of the facilities that ended up in the pollution area after the Chernobyl disaster are out. I can only compare it to 1995 when we were introduced into the State of Child Health Reporting. I told you before, in 1995, 885,000 children were cured in the summer of 1995 and 5,800 institutions were operating. This year, 2 million will be healed and 1,2,036 will work. What steps has been taken by the government to maintain a fixed network of children’s health facilities, to ensure proper working conditions? You know, in 1997, the government adopted a decree in 1998 to develop a network of children’s health facilities. And so we're compared to 1995, you see, almost halved the number of children's health facilities that work. How much money has the government allocated for the rehabilitation of children in 2002? Whether the government is planning a separate budget for 2003 for the recovery of children. I already gave you those numbers. That's a total of 349 million from the local and state budgets. And what I want to say is that we're going to be proposing that there be a separate line in the organization of child recovery, especially those for which the state is responsible: orphans, children deprived of parental care, help for children from many families and underprivileged, and children with disabilities. To what extent and in what terms did the state budget come to the regions for a health campaign? Of the local budgets, 53.9 million were funded on July 8, from the State Budget, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Committee on Family and Youth. Artek and Young Guards, as they work around the clock, are financed according to the distribution of funds. How has the Ministry of Finance met the requirements for funding for the recovery and rest of children? I already told you -- 100 percent in line with the Cabinet of Ministers. How many specialized children's health care facilities in the MOZ system were closed or re-profiled during 2000-2002, and for what reasons? First. So far, the Ministry of Health has arranged 22 sanatoriums for 6.7 thousand places. In 2001, there were 23, at the expense of a union of two, 22 of them. What is the state of health care and other specialized requirements for children’s health and rest during today’s healing season? I want to say that, despite the fact that both the health services and the local authorities have taken measures to ensure the safety of children's life, their normal diet, the provision of normal sanitation, the authorities have imposed fines on almost 500 people, there have been 159 orders to stop the operation of health facilities temporarily, there are 141 persons removed from work, and there are five cases addressed to the investigating authorities. Surprisingly, there were outbreaks of infectious diseases that affected 114 people, including 100 children, in the Hmelnicki, Sumski, Lugansk region, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There. These facilities have an order in these areas. What is the cost of a healthy trip if a child does not use the benefits? In general, I told you that depending on the type of camp, depending on the region, the cost is extremely different. However, the average cost, based on an analysis of health facilities in June, is about 35 dollars per day. On average, between 14 and 18 days, children are healed. If we take both suburban facilities and urban, sanitary, and school day - care facilities, we go on an average trip of about 300 bracelets. All questions, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the question of Valentina Ivanovna. Please record. Please put a name list on the board. National MP Phydenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u32	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u33	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u34	Dear Valentin Ivanovna! Deputy Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporozhye district. The deputies had recently held receptions in the districts and I had met with the voters of the Priazova region of Zaporozhye and naturally in other areas and, of course, with the heads of administrations, the presidents of the district councils, the trade union workers in agriculture. Let me tell you that the situation on this very issue that we are currently considering is difficult. I can only give an example of the Priaza region, which has seen more than a thousand children in the Priaza region in recent years. To date, the number of children being treated in the children’s camps has declined more than ten times in the pioneer camps. Not much, I'm not talking about the food problem or anything. In other areas, such as the city of Tokmak, there is an enterprise called Judzelmash. There was his own Sunshine Pioneer Camp. Today it's a factory company and, of course, nobody needs it, it's practically destroyed. So, here I see, today is the day of the Government and there will be harvesting, and so on, we always pay attention to the disease. It is not the disease that should be treated today. It is the disease that causes it. I'll tell you, it's a really critical situation with the children's health. We don't have a future. I request your attention and the Cabinet of Ministers would like to draw immediate attention to this issue. Otherwise, we don't have a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention on these matters. I want to say that there are two million people in the Zaporozhye region from the district budget for the children's health to be allocated, and there are a million local budgets. That's not enough. And we're going to do everything we can to form a budget for the recovery of children next year on such a fiscally sound basis. Those local authorities that provide funds will receive both government grants and government support. We'll look into the process of curing the children in the Priazova region. Regarding the city of Tokmak, you realize that there are no businesses at all. But after we do inventory, we'll take steps to make the vast majority of the camps that are in good climate, which are, have a normal base to gradually translate them into active ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u36	People's MP Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u37	Dear Valentina Ivanovna, there is such an impression that you could be fertilized after your performance, as we have prepared well for this action as the healing of children. But you probably did not say why such a disastrous situation is with children’s health today. Today, every other child has serious health problems. And what percentage of such children will we be able to heal just this year, if only 10 or 10 children from the rural area receive the most, there is nothing to applaud. I am interested in such questions. How many health care establishments did different subordinations in comparison to the 1990s cease to exist? And the second question. What percentage of school - age children will we embrace with this healing? And the third question is specific. How much could the children be cured for the cost of advertising and preparing for the election of the Women for the Future Leonid Danilovich Kuchma?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Kirilchuk, first of all, I did not speak in my speech and I did not ask you to applaud, and I, at the direction of the government, reported on what had been done by the government for six months in preparation for a child-recovery organization. In my report, I said that we really have almost every other child in the dispensary. As a result, the government, in developing measures this year and planning a 2003-2005 programme for the recovery of children, envisages an increase in the number of healthy children to at least 50 per cent in 2002, 2003, 2004. If we have 6.6 million schoolchildren, this year we plan to cure 2 million of them, you can figure out what percentage. That's twice that last year. For the next year, we will plan that at least 3 million school - age children will be able to recover. I am obliged by the government to inform you of specific measures taken by the government of local authorities and central authorities. As to how many institutions there were in the 1990s and how many now, I told you that we had an extremely large number of allied facilities in the 1990s, so it's not right to compare them. I've brought you analytical data, compared to 1995, since this year, you know, we've created the State Committee of Statistics and introduced state statistics. And if we had 5,000 800 facilities then, this year we have 12,000 36 facilities, which you understand is more than 50 percent, and we're going to increase the number of children who are getting better. I absolutely share with you your view that there is no future for a state that does not treat children. This was also done by Women for the Future, specifically, giving 200,000 people and the vast majority of children help.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u39	Plutinski National Deputy, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u42	[[Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine"]] . Dear Valentina Ivanovna! Yesterday I received a delegation of children’s parents, 600 children who represented them, who were attending a school in the pioneer camp of the Young Guard. Yesterday, I heard representatives of the trade unions talking about the destruction of the Odessa healing system. They also refer to "big roofs," called many surnames, which were called and familiar to you. I'd like to focus on that. In Odessa, 600 children who have learned Ukrainian are being expelled to the streets today. The pioneer camp is now planning to privatize. You know, it's probably second place after Artek takes over this Youth Guard camp. On my appeal, I received written letters to the government, which then went to the Ministry of Education. And finally, Valentina Ivanovna, I'd like to ask one more question after this, after Artec. Two thousand dollars the cost of travel today to the pioneer camp Artek, which is somehow in the famous DUSS - State Administration, you know that. Well, it's a shame, you know, to give Artek to the State Administration for 2,000 dollars a trip. Who can pay for them? Count today even $400 per child. And we say it's good to be healed in Artek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u43	Dear Mr. People's Deputy Carmazin, regarding the situation in the children's health facility Young Guard. First of all, it's not a state health facility. This is a facility that was part of the pioneer organizations of then - Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. This facility now belongs to the Federation of Children's Organizations. How is support provided by the state of activity of this institution, which, in fact, has a significant place for the recovery of children? Every year, when you accept a budget, you provide for state funds to support the work of this institution. This year, we also have 2.8 million bracelets, and we're doing it within the scope of possible funding to have Young Guards operating in a public organization. With regard to college, state support, financial support from the State Budget, the work of this college has no bearing. However, I, like you, got my parents' appeal, and we set up a commission in charge of my deputy going to Odessa, going to the Young Guard to deal with this question, because we need to solve the issue of school functioning and for children to learn, and to raise these questions: the school is a school, "The Young Guard," where children get better -- "The Young Guard." I have this question under control. Next up, Artek. You know that Artek is the oldest establishment of children, the biggest one, he's 77 years old, and he can have up to 5,000 children at the same time. Artek is one of the few institutions that function throughout the year, only in December and January, prevention repairs are done and no groups of children are visited. I've already said that we're going to be able to heal at least 13,000 children in Artec this year. In order to make the trip cheaper, you realize that in Artec, travel can't be cheap because in Artec, 7 kilometers of beaches, in Artec, 300 hectares of land, in Artec, 300 objects of health and utilities, and even still have housing on their balance, where there are 2 and a half thousand working people. In Artec, children rest 30 days in the winter and 21 days in the summer. Children who are in the Artefacts during these days are taken to Sevastopol, Dubrava, marble caves and so on. Thus, indeed, the cost of traveling is extremely costly. So in order to spend travel, and Artek as a state-run accounting enterprise is being supported, and this year we're going to ask you to predict a greater amount of money next year. First. Secondly, Artek, as a state institution of accounting, is essentially working with the State Committee on Family and Youth, and funding is only being made through government administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u44	National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Vitalia Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u46	People's deputy, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u47	Quickly, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valentina Ivanovna, here I want to bring you back to today, to the order of the day that is being considered today, that is, the healing of children this year. I want to ask you. If we're looking at this right now, in the middle of the healing period, what can you decide for today? You know, you could add a bunch of camps, you could spend some money, you could find money, you could find a bed there, and so on. That's the first question. And the second question. You're a man of experience, you lead such a committee, you're said to have great political activity both in the past and today. So was it necessary today to wait for a meeting of the Supreme Council to hear this question? That you couldn't solve this issue yourself in order to heal your children this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u48	Dear National Deputy Shibko, the initiative to raise the issue of the rehabilitation of children in the Supreme Council this year is an initiative of the National Deputies. And the government, in deep respect of you, has prepared information and analysis materials, reference materials and reporting materials. And today he has commissioned me to report to you for what was done last year, what had been done in previous years, what had been done in the past six months and what would be done by the end of this year, and what would be done in the future for 2003-2005. Which is what I've been trying to tell you for an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u49	The Veretennikov People's Deputy, the Party's faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs of "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u50	Victor Weretennikov, Dnipropetrovsk, faction of Entrepreneurs, Industrialists and Workers. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, Your Honor Minister. When I listen to you, I support the government's actions that you just reported to us. But two such questions are very important to me. First. You know, and today we're saying that really, the state structure for the recovery of children in the pioneer camps is ruined. And today, if we have 35 dollars per child, if we have money per day, that is, if the child is resting 20 days, it's going to be about 700 dollars. Most of the population is unable to pay for this kind of money. That's the first question. What can be done to make a standard of 10 percent, perhaps 20 percent, pay no more than the price of citizens to heal their children? And the second question. It's a question of quality. The government gives money and the local budget gives money. And how will this money be controlled so that it's not a campaign to make this money go away, really, to get the money to be cured, to be treated, to feed the children? How is this going to happen to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u51	Dear Lord People's Deputies! It's about control. All the funds provided for in the State Budget are made available to local authorities through treasury agencies. The local authorities have previously presented appropriate ministries or the Ministry of Education, or the State Committee on Family Affairs, and the youth programs are absolutely specific, where children will be healed, where institutions will be established, and how many children will be healed. And accordingly, those central government authorities, through which local authorities and camps are financed, control the efficiency of using these funds and take appropriate measures. This is a very transparent system for financing health facilities. Next. I fully agree with you that so many families today do not have the funds to heal their children. And that's why the state, the local authorities, I've already talked about, by coming out of the government's decree of April 14, 1997, and most of them have decided on the cost of the paths. And the vast majority of children from many young and vulnerable families, including suburban health care facilities, in day - care facilities, are cured at the cost or free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u52	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u53	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Valentin Ivanovna! Of course, there are many positive moments in the work of these units and what is being done today is still a lot of negative moments, but I would like to focus on a category that probably can't bother you or us -- orphans, those kids who are currently in boarding schools, children's homes. That system of funding and funding, which we're going to talk about for this category of children, I'm not going to say, you know, that it requires serious intervention and requires serious funding. But I'd like to say a little bit about a friend. Today, many industrial enterprises have devoted enormous amounts and resources to the cause. [[in honor, this is the combination of Ilicah, Azomash in the city of Mariupole]] But I don't understand why these businesses can't use social security money to at least, so to speak, pay for these trips. Why should they take a trip at their own expense? Excuse me, this may not be as much a question for you as it is for all of us sitting in this room who voted in favour of this law. And those who taught today will return this law yesterday, so we put the enterprise in such a difficult situation. Your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u54	Thank you very much for your understanding and, in fact, for your suggestions. We are extremely grateful to all those companies that work well, which are able to maintain social institutions, primarily for the recovery of children. We have so many businesses and so many facilities. This year, 77 million 283,000 dollars will be allocated from the Social Insurance Fund to support the recovery of children for the cost of travel. I think that in the process of preparing a national target programme for the recovery of children in cooperation with you and with the national MPs who are interested in making children grow healthy, which means we're going to work with you to get more money from different sources, including from the social stratagem. I'm sure you'll support our proposals, additions and changes to the laws that were aimed at supporting and curing children.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u55	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, 79th district, faction of SDPU. Valentina Ivanovna, I have a question as to the continuation of my colleague, the question of colleague Matvienkov. So every summer, without a penny of government, budget, dozens of children’s health camps open industrial enterprises in Zaporozhye, Donetska, Lugansk, Kiev, and so forth. I'll tell you as a former deputy director-general of a large industrial enterprise, every year of nerve-wracking because of the downfall of officials in places. The same question is, give me the money. I'm voting in favour of it with two hands. Children’s rest camps are often taxed by local taxes and congregations, local ones, and the size and number of paid services provided to children’s health institutions. Please tell me, as Head of the State Committee, are you developing any measures, or are you planning any steps to encourage, encourage, encourage industry, and support health care facilities? For example, perhaps some tax preferences for children’s travels, diets, or health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u57	Thank you for asking and thank you for the activities carried out by the Engine-Sitch and the industries of Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye. I understand and completely agree with you, because I am dealing with many shortcomings in the work of local authorities, bureaucracy, and perhaps unwillingness. What are we doing? Well, first of all, in a college that took place two weeks ago, that's exactly the kind of job that was recommended to the heads of two government, well, to find more flexible, more loving and more responsible people for these jobs, to work with people who have to work with children. Now, when it comes to stimulating children's institutions that are in place, they have different forms of ownership. In fact, during these years we have experienced major changes in the form of property. If we used to have only state companies, only trade unions, we now have health institutions of state enterprises and private enterprises, and stock companies, and public organizations, and international organizations. And in this regard, we must completely reform the child - care system, primarily by starting to develop the health - care market, by making a commitment to the State, to make a 100% recovery of state orphans, disabled people, deprived of parental care, affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And by stimulating tax cuts, well, you know, the value added tax is off, and if your health care facility hasn't entered the Cabinet of Ministers list, please suggest and the Cabinet of Ministers will make that decision. I think we need to get rid of the amount of money that's going to be used to get the kids better from their income tax, and we're going to be very hard to control the government's execution of the local government's decision to give local benefits to health facilities. And this kind of incentive system is envisioned by a government program project. We will be very happy if you participate in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u58	People's Deputy Landik, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u59	Dear Valentina Ivanovna! You said it right, and it's very good that two million kids will be resting this year, and that's wonderful. But you know that there are many other children’s institutions today, unfortunately, that are closed. And in Artek, no one can get away, it's also a lot of money. So I want to tell you. I have two areas of Donetska, and today I have to help in schools, these children's institutions, we rebuild them, the kids start to relax, and, you know, they don't run all summer and so on. So I'd like to ask you a question. Your attitude to this? Should we do this or should we not? And are we going to help those schools open up or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u60	I fully agree with you, Your Honor Valentin Ivanovich, with your concern, and thank you for your help. We've all agreed that we need to find reserves to increase the number of children who will get better every year. Where are these reserves? These reserves, first of all, in rebuilding the work of the suburban stationary camps, the outposts that are not yet working. Second, in the transfer of parts of the labor camps over a year. So if we have an average of camps working, most of them work 70-80 days, you know, it's overhead costs, and, of course, the cost of travel. It's economically inconvenient. And thirdly, it's the introduction of various forms of child recovery. And the fact that for two thousand day care camps in schools this year, more is open is a large reserve, and as there is good nutrition organized, and including with the help of local authorities and industrial enterprises, as there children can rest and work with them, they are not on the street, it is not only their health that improves, and it is some sort of preventive protection against homelessness, homelessness and having children go out. I personally support the position taken by the Ministry of Education to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u61	National MP Kafarsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u62	Valentina Ivanovna, who is familiar with the issue of child recovery, knows that a huge job is actually being done both in the center and in the regions. But the numbers would have to go up to some kind of quality. First of all, we don't have a serious job with stationary children's sanitariums, some of them are closed, where we can treat children all the time. Second, summer health camps often open up in areas contaminated with radioactivity. For example, money is credited to Žitomyrščina, they could cure children in Carpathians or Crimea, and they try to maintain their stationary children’s institutions and give jobs in places, but this is not a cure. The following is the question: Prevention of disease and recovery. Kiev’s scientists have developed such a program of prevention for children during the year, and this would cost 111 dollars. On average, the recovery of children during the summer period is 380. What is done about prevention of recovery and, above all, what is done about drinking water is that in areas like Zaporozhye, Lugansk and so on, in principle, drinking water is needed in schools, it should be a government program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u63	Thank you, distinguished national MP, Mr. Kafarsky. First, I would like to ask you, if you can, to provide more detailed information to the State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth regarding the proposals made by scientists in preventive activities and, as a result, we could improve, improve the effectiveness of the child’s health, and increase the cost of travel. If possible, please give us this information. This is the first time. Secondly, I fully agree with you that there are many and many problems in the organization of child recovery and in the direct functioning of each individual health care facility. However, as we come from the financial situation in our country, emerging from problems and from the need to increase the number of children and to make them better, I would like to thank you and I would like to thank those hundreds of thousands of people who are working as teachers, educators, cooks, janitors who are doing everything to make sure that, without looking at the big problems, they are able to help their children and allow them to recover. I told you that by January 1st, we're going to have an inventory of every camp and, first of all, a stationary suburban, out of the city with what we're going to do, we're going to produce standards, sanitation, we're going to propose legislation to determine what "healing" is, what "healing camp" is, to predict the conditions for the operation of such facilities. And I'm sure we'll do it with you, and that will improve our work together in the next few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u64	National MP Samofalov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u65	Samofalov, Party of Regions, MP group of European Choices. Valentina Ivanovna, first of all, I would like to mention well-prepared, well-founded information. This suggests that you are personally highly trained. Second. The role of the Government is also apparent that the number of children to be healed will double this year. But, of course, today, only 1 in 10 is getting better. Worse still, only 30 per cent of children with disabilities are cured today. I think that the problem can only be solved once, rather than looking for additional reserves, but instead of proposing a separate budget line for 2003 to put on the recovery of children. Then the problems will be solved. But that's not my question. You didn't mention in your information how many street kids we have today, because I'm reading from 100,000 to 600,000. And what measures does the Government plan to work with this category of children? And I have a second question. You've named a large number of charity funds, their, I know, more than 4,000 in Ukraine today, who are self-sustainingly providing some help to children. Is there any point in this fund’s efforts to unite and direct them to the most limited categories of children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor, the National MP of Samofal. First. In my report, I suggested that the budgets of the state and local authorities should provide for a separate line of funding for the recovery of children, primarily state children. And I am so grateful for your support. It's different. As far as the children are concerned, they are on the street. The Ukrainian State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth has 87 shelters under the Law on the Service of Minors and special facilities for the care of children who are on the street. And this assistance was given to 30,000 children last year. 2/3 of these children are children who have their parents. Regrettably, they left their parents, their families, because they were cruelly treated, uneducated, and for many other reasons, because they were poor. It's very sad that we have a very small number of children, almost 20 percent, among these children are children under seven years of age, and almost half of these children are children from rural areas right now. It's a very big problem. And the Ukrainian State Committee on Family and Youth at the Ministry’s Office concludes the preparation of a national program to alert children. It's about public organizations. We have, in fact, a lot of social organizations, we have 104 young, almost 40 women's organizations, we have a lot of all-Ukrainian funds, we have almost a hundred funds. And since the National Committee on Family Affairs and Youth is mandated to promote the development of social organizations, various funds, we are now developing a cooperative development programme, analysing their activities, and will certainly be more involved in the implementation of various social programs, including health programs. I want to say that out of those millions of dollars that are budgeted by the State Committee on Family and Youth, a very large amount of money is being channelled to support the social organizations of various and foundations so that they can implement health programs. We've created an expert board at the State Committee that's looking at projects. Of course, first of all, projects that involve at least 25 percent of this public organization’s self - funding. And we are in line with the norms that have been developed and approved, agreed with the Ministry of Finance, to support public organizations. I have already said that 120 public organizations are taking part in this year’s health - care campaign. But I totally agree with you that far, well, we don't know about everyone's activities yet, and we don't have analytical information about the activities of all public organizations. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u67	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction. People's deputy Pravdenko, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. None. National Deputy MacKeenko, faction of our Ukraine. None. National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u68	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, you may have simply said honestly that so much is being raised for recovery today. We'd like to listen to you today, not how much you've collected, but how much you've spent. So it doesn't happen the way it did last year: you spent the money in September when we called the kids off the camps because the bank "Ukraine" closed the accounts. Then I'm afraid it will be the same this time. So please give me an answer as to how much has already been used. Half the healing period has passed. I know how much it's been used! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u69	Well, first of all, last year, there were no central executives, the State Committee on Family Affairs, and young people. That's why we didn't do it. Secondly, in my speech, I said that the local authorities had already sent 53.9 million dollars to heal children. This information is supported by the heads of local authorities and the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, from the State budget, out of the 111 million planned to heal the children of Chernobyl, well, the state of June has been set aside and used 40 million bracelets. Third. In line with the Cabinet of Ministers Order of June 5, 7.5 million additional funds have been allocated to the Ministry of Education, of which 500,000 have been allocated to the All-U.S. Children's Health Fund and 7 million to the Ministry of Education. And these are the total cost of yesterday's balance. And according to the distribution, they were directed to the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u70	Thank you. People's deputy Rahanski, faction of the Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" and "Urban Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u71	Dear Valentina Ivanovna. National MP Rahansky, Epateorian constituency, All-Ukrainian Child Health. You know, the potential of this healer is that in the past it was the healing and treatment of the children of the entire former Soviet Union. You wanted to say something today about how to use this spa during the fall-winter period. But I didn't realize, we can treat and cure hundreds of thousands of children today in a year, and we don't use that opportunity. In fact, there are schools, there are pools, there is everything to treat and maintain the child’s health. Please tell me, what do you think you are doing in order to heal children during this fall, the spring season? Because not all summers need to be healed, and some may not be able to recover during the summer season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u72	Thank you, Deputy Rahanski, for your concern. I know you've always supported executives and local authorities and you've always helped health institutions. Once again, I want to remind you that there are 64 health facilities in Eupatoria where 31,000 people, including about 70 percent of the children, can be cured at the same time. This is if we fill all the facilities by 100 percent a year, we'll be able to heal about 200,000 children. Ours. I said that some of the facilities were filled in the winter between 6 and 20 percent. I said that the State Health Target Program, the rest of the children, provides for separate measures to develop the Eupatoria Children's Resort in order to gradually increase the number of children who are getting better in Eupatoria over the winter. This is our reserve. It's a reserve for an extremely effective recovery of children and it's an economic reserve. We'll do it. Gradually, however, it is possible to find funds again, accumulate them, and bring them to a good modern state of life, and fill them with children. Gradually, as you understand. We have very good wishes, but they must always match the possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u73	Infantry National Deputy, European Choice Group, and we'll finish. None. National MP Calnichenko, European Choice Group. None. National MP Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u74	Dear Valentin Ivanovna! Unfortunately, there is rather a cure in the camps for dangerous diseases, and you called it in. Orphan children 60 are ill and there are fatalities. In view of the fact that these are the children of the State, what has been done to ensure that those who have diseased to save and heal these children? [[There are chronic diseases]] And the second. Who is to blame for this so that they may suffer the penalty? Because medicine came: 3 groups and 3 different opinions, 3 different diagnosis. Children are sick and dying, and there's a dispute over who's to blame!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u75	I think that the Ministry of Health and I will deal with this issue in more detail after the meeting of the Supreme Council, and we will inform you personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Time's up for questions. Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. A joint report will be made by the chairman of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. In five minutes. Please prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u77	The High Priestess! Distinguished People's Deputies! A great government! I realize that we are very late to listen to this question, and this question should have been heard in March. But we are hearing an extremely important question with you, which directly relates to the health of our new generation of citizens, who will have to provide and develop tomorrow’s development and growth. That's why I would like today's hearings not to turn into a formal procedure, and for all of us and Parliament, and the government to focus on the problem of child recovery, to take all possible steps to ensure that both in this healing season and in the coming years, they are resolved as fully and as qualitatively as possible. Measures for the recovery and rest of children in Ukraine are now regulated by a number of documents of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the most important of which is the government's decree of 14 April 1997 and the additions made in 1998, 2000 and 2002. Appropriately, the measures provided for in this and other relevant government documents for the recovery of children are quite broad and meaningful and, of course, provided that they are properly implemented, are fully capable of providing a normal solution to the problem under consideration. Various sources of funding are available for the health and rest of children: local budgets, businesses, institutions, organizations, trade unions, and others. Sadly, though, the real implementation of these measures is far from ideal. As a result, most of Ukraine’s children are left out of organized health and recreation during the summer. According to analysis and reference materials provided by the Cabinet itself for today’s hearing, of Ukraine’s 10.7 million children, only about 2 million — about 20 percent — are scheduled to be healed during the summer. Another 80 percent of children are left to themselves or to their parents ’ financial abilities, which are known to not always allow for proper rest and well - being. Even when it comes to the recovery of many - year - old and low - income families, only 35 percent of them are planned by the government during 2002! It's a little better to plan the recovery of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Here 80 percent of this category is planned. At the same time, when it comes to children with disabilities, only about 20 percent of these children are to be cured. This is the most deprived category of the child population. Out of one million and forty-seven thousand children living in Chernobyl, only 72.5 thousand were healed on July 1st of the year. The question is, When will the rest of the children of this category be healed, which by law is guaranteed the right to receive their annual health? It causes anxiety and the fact that the network of out-of-town health facilities and sanitation facilities has been cut short in a number of areas and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There, the number of sanatorium facilities in Crimea, which was always considered to be the leading universal child health care facility, as evidenced by the government’s reference material, which was on June 26, this year, has been reduced by two, five and ten respectively, compared to the previous year. In the Donetsk region, no children’s health care facilities are in operation this year! Although there were seven in 2001. The situation is similar in Zakarpatski, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Odessa, Poltavski, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Hersonski, Hmelnicky, Cherkaske, Chernivecki, and in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, where there is no sanitary institution in this year. Needless to say, over the last six years, the network of children's sanatoriums has dropped by 86 units! Therefore, the government needs to pay close attention to this problem. At the same time, with the high cost of children's travels, according to data, 330-500 bracelets have been allocated to children, 190 bracelets for recovery. The purchasing power of a large part of the population is declining due to the late payment of wages. The committee has prepared an appropriate draft decree for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been handed over to the deputies. We'd like to ask your approval to include it in addition to the existing one, and a point that would instruct the government by 1 October this year to develop and submit to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the State Target Programme for the Recovery of Children and Student Youth in 203-2005. To our conviction, after being processed in the Cabinet of Ministers, it must be submitted to the Supreme Council for approval in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and for timely funding in the following year, this document must be approved before the adoption of the State Budget Act 2003 of Ukraine. Please support such draft rulings during the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u78	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for discussion. Recorded for speeches from the Rahanski Congregation, the National MP, the Party of Industrialists and Employers of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u79	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudov Ukraine, the Deputies of the Black Crowds, Dear colleagues, a reference material on the recovery of children in the summer, can be drawn to the conclusion: Ukraine’s Gold Children’s Fund is only 10.7 million people, including more than a million children who have suffered from an accident in CHAES, children with disabilities, orphans, and two million living in multi - child and low - income families. Such statistics are disturbing to the state. At the same time, the government reports that some 2 million children are planning to be healed during the summer. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the organization of children’s summer rest is only part of the great concern for their recovery. Children need to be cured and treated year after year, using fine specialized sanatoriums in urban resorts: Eupatoria, Rabbits, Odessa, and others. Unfortunately, their potential is not used enough, especially during the fall-winter period. At the same time, tens of thousands of children affected by the ČAES accident, in Žitomirska, in Ravenska, and in other areas are scheduled to be healed in cities, where they suffered radiation from an accident at CHAES, and where conditions are not needed. For this reason, the Government needs to develop a system of permanent government order for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of sick children throughout the year in specialized state children’s sanatoriums. I am an MP from the entire Ukrainian children’s health center of Eupatoria, Saki resort, where there is much of Ukraine’s children’s health and medical facilities. In the days of the Soviet Union, the Eupatoria was called "a universal child health care facility", which provided treatment for children from all over the former Union. For the organization of summer rest and the healing of the children of Eupatoria, Saki, and other resorts, as usual, are well prepared. Sadly, though, the potential of these children is used only in the summer for such a great need to treat their children. The main reason is the high cost of travel, the unresolved VAT problem for travel. It is necessary to continue the good work initiated by the Minister of Transportation, Kirpa Georgi Mikolaiovich, regarding the extended passage of children, and to reduce the price of airline tickets. It is also necessary to resolve the issue of the annual payment of payment for travel tickets. And the last. I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to support my and the Eupatoria City Council: to continue the long - term development programme of the entire U.S. Children's Hospital, Eupatoria, by 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u80	National MP Mihovich of the Human Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u81	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Honorable members of the government, colleagues, guests. Indeed, after reading the carefully received material, listening to Valentina Ivanovna’s report, it seems that a great deal of work has been done. Yet one document is how much it is accepted. And what do we actually have? Even with advanced operational data, it is evident that a small proportion of children will be treated. Those 12,000 healers, we know they're what suburban, out-of-town, preschool camps are, and so on. In fact, these are isolated objects, leftovers of a once-powerful child-health industry, because children under Soviet authority were actually a privileged class. Now one of the rich parents will be lucky to visit overseas resorts, while others will be hoarding barrels, shepherding cattle, collecting and selling berries and mushrooms on the roads and markets to buy pencils and sew in September. That's the kind of work that's been done by most kids today. Until recently, there had also been a powerful complex of these health facilities, and now, especially since the recent floods, the situation has deteriorated dramatically. In fact, there are three child health camps left in the community that are actually working, five times less than in previous years. And about who goes to Artek or other camps, we know they're mostly the children of officials, businessmen, other people who are close to parental authority. These figures are given in government materials that have to be questioned. In particular, we see it in Ukraine and in our region, the worst thing is with orphans, children with specific needs and Chernobyl. As far as funding is concerned, Vernigor’s companion has already said that these funds are either not found at all or come when they are no longer needed. In general, we have a number of specific suggestions from the subject under discussion. This is primarily the inclusion of funds for this purpose in the State Budget, which is a timely arrangement for these issues. Of course, emphasis should be placed on orphans and foster parents. There is a need to stimulate the involvement of business, economic, specialization and other specific proposals that I will pass on to the committee. I just want to point out that we need to do an interregional and interstate exchange in this area. And what the network used to be, as Valentina Ivanovna, of the Soviet Union, said, was that thousands of our children also went to other regions, to other countries, and should be restored. Specific proposals will be referred by me to the committee and a draft decision from the matter after the revision will, of course, have to be adopted. I'll finish with that. During the time remaining until September 1st, the situation will not improve dramatically, but what it will bring, let us think, the children next year. We need a real program like Health and the future of the nation, not election slogans. Let us make sure that future generations experience the joys of the pioneer summer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u82	People's MP Papiev, faction of SDPU. Next will be the National MP Hara of the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u83	Mikhailo Papiev, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] It can now be said with confidence that, as a result of mixed leadership, the percentage of healthy people in 2002 will be as low as in the past year. I'll remind you. In 2001, according to statistics, only 15 percent of the younger generation received health - care services. Under these circumstances, the faction of SDPU(o) does not fully understand the euphoria associated with the information given to the people's deputies by Government Day. I quote: "Compared to last year, the network of active health facilities has expanded in most areas of Ukraine." Yes, the expansion actually took place, but at the expense of it, note the day - care camps and labor and rest camps. With the total number of health facilities, 12,000 36 units are part of the named camps of 10,000 58. If such healing is the goal of the authorities, there is nothing to talk about. Now let's move on. Healing children and children with disabilities. It seemed that there were no problems or problems. But it's the other way around. It follows from the information that the healing of children with disabilities is given special attention, that most of them need to be cured and treated in specialised sanatoriums. And that's a percentage right there. Notice, only 5.4 percent of children with disabilities were reached by health services last year. But even with such a small percentage, it has to be said that it is not the healing and treatment of children with disabilities. It may be about recreation, but it's not about treatment. In 18 days, it is impossible to provide quality services for the treatment of a disabled child. [[It's a term of travel.]] The authorities of the regions affected by the CHAES accident and would be happy to give children with disabilities 60 days of travel and cannot because they are governed by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree of 800 of May 16, 2000, paragraph 14 of which stipulates: "A two-month treatment term for children of orphans and orphans only." The MPs of the faction of the SDPU(o) in the past called out to the Cabinet of Ministers with the proposal to distribute this provision to children with disabilities. However, the reactions are zero. And that's when they get children with disabilities on general grounds, 14 to 18 calendar days. And about funding. There is no justification for the optimism of the information given about the additional funding of the health - care campaign. For example, in my hometown of Chernivsky, there is a proven amount of funding for the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl children on July 5th is 563,000 dollars, 85,000 less than last year. This amount will allow only 17.5 percent of the total number of affected children living in the area, less than last year’s. I think the financing situation in other regions of Ukraine doesn't look so good. In general, the faction of SDPU(o) proposes to accept information from the Cabinet of Ministers to the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u84	National MP Hara. He will be followed by the national deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! It was very sad for me and my faction friends to listen to the Kabmin report on the work and read the materials we were given. To put it mildly, lies have become commonplace in the Government's report on any matter. The worse the country gets, the worse the report gets. But for children, in our view, it is very unforgivable. The medical community knows that 100 percent of healthy children in Ukraine are virtually nonexistent. Over 90 Percentage of children have clear signs of disease and many of them have 2-3 chronic diseases. We are looking for a national idea that will be followed by the young generation of the country. We want our children to be patriots of Ukraine and our actions, and more precisely by inaction, we can only cause the reaction of the young people of Ukraine. To this day, the destruction of the previously well-functioning health system of children. Of the 1,400 overseas camps in Ukraine, we have lost more than a third of our independence. For example, there were 159 camps in the Donetsk region in Soviet times, 85 camps today, and 132 in Dnepropetrovsk, 88 and so on. But Kabmina has her arithmetic. He claims that the network increased by 40 per cent compared to last year. Take a close look at the table on the camps around the city, which means that there are 48 camps in Ivano-Frankov region in 2002, and in fact there are only 8 camps in the city! And at the best of times, they didn't work there more than 15. That's the statistics. The Cabinet of Ministers argues that local authorities have taken measures to reduce the cost of travel by 15-20 per cent, that children's camps are granted benefits for public household payments. It's, to put it mildly, a wound that I don't even want to comment on, because people who are a little bit of a healer understand that's not the case. It was very optimistic that Kabmin reported to us about the sanatorium epidemiology service. How does Kabmin know that the sanatorium does not have the most basic to perform its functions: no chemicals, no gasoline, no minimum funding. Everyone but Kabmin knows that since the beginning of the year, except for the meager wages and sanitation, they haven't received a penny. And we need to thank only God and no one else that, under such weather conditions, we did not have any infections, and there was no tragedy. What about the euphoria of healing children in the Chernobyl area? There's been a lot of funding going on! Contrary to the current legislation and recommendations of Minhravda Kabmin, the provision had been adopted that the rehabilitation of children living in child camps had been reduced from 60 to 14 days. And what is Kabmin's funding figure? Let us take only one Chernigov region, which has received only 20 per cent of the required category. In general, the funding system for the recovery of children has become insidious, cumbersome, hampering the normal recovery process and the lion's share of the blame rests on the reorganized social insurance fund for temporary disability. The financing mechanisms for recovery are not well thought out, there is a lot of confusion, there is a lot of funding in manual management, there is a lot of fiber and indifference.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u86	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u87	The money, in fact, I'm finishing up, the money, essentially meant to heal children, has to be thrown out in battle. Such facts could continue indefinitely. Which, at the end of the day, I'd like to make a point. Throughout the decades, the children's health has been irreparably treated by trade unions with economic leaders, and they have been the real organizers of recovery. Unfortunately, their experience is not required today. Moreover, today, trade unions are essentially cut off from this process, which is why we have had such sad results. And as for the ruling, unfortunately, the proposals that our committee has made to the lead committee on this issue are not taken into account, and I therefore propose to support the Order No. 1312-1, which was submitted by the People's Chamber of Samylik Ekaterina Semenovna, which contains at least one mechanism, and to force the Cabinet of Ministers to return as a person to the recovery of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u88	The National MP, Mathvienkov, will be followed by the National Deputy Samuel, and we will conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! [[Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol]] . Having carefully examined the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers and listened to the report of the distinguished Valentina Ivanovna, I would like to make a few comments. Well, of course, central and local authorities have done some work on the preparation and implementation of summer health care, so to speak, children, and the recovery of children during summer. Much has also been done by industry, unfortunately, there has been no mention of this today. I would like us to pay attention and talk about businesses like the same combination of Ilic, CNMZ, Nord, West, Styrol, where it was worth not only to reduce the number of restable children in these circumstances, but also to increase and lift, let us say, today on our own shoulders this healing rest. All of us have just returned from our constituencies and were able to assess on the ground how the child's recovery is actually going. A social programme for the protection of children has also been established in the Donetsk region. According to it, Mariupol and other cities have transferred the funds for the acquisition of travel, thus delegating the authority to provide the area with health care. But if in 2000 90 trips were made to the city for orphans without parental care, children with disabilities. Although I would like to point out that this category of children in Mariupola is 786, there was no allocation in 2001-2002. And if it were not for the assistance of industrial enterprises, of course, these categories of children were virtually unhealthy. And here's where I'd like to focus on one thing. Here we are faced with an interesting question. The industrial enterprise, which takes on the cost of curing such a child, is, for some reason, in accordance with the treatment that the Social Insurance Office has been making so far, forced all one hundred per cent to take on its own costs. Here, in this room, we have adopted legislation that we have tried to regulate the distribution of social security funds. But I don't understand why the regional administrations of this social insurance, why do the Kiev social security officials treat this law as their own?Oh, my God! So let's eventually sort out the rum and put all the points above the "and" in this direction! That's the first question. And the second question I would like to address. It's called a city-type camp. Figures have been provided, evidence has been given that in these camps such a number of children have rested. But let's say that -- not fool ourselves -- let's look at the conditions of children in these camps. The maximum time they can get a normal rest is a month, if not a month. Renovation is beginning in schools. In one wing there are repairs, in the other there are children. Those children who are there, from boarding schools, from children's homes, do not have the means to go on tours and so on. So they practically go there with the builders, they push around that school, they run around the school, and of course they can't call it summer vacation! So I don't understand why we're spending money on this if these are the best means to rehabilitate the currently closed health camps that are outside the city and to create less normal conditions for the recovery of this category of children? And I also wanted to say literally two words in closing and go back to what I was saying. Today, the maximum burden is placed on local authorities and industrial enterprises. Let us, therefore, deal with social insurance, with the financial flows that are working in this direction. And let's put points above "and" here so that in the next season our industrial enterprises can actually take most of the effort to heal categories of children, such as orphans and disadvantaged children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u90	Samoylik's National MP is from the Youth Policy Committee. And let's finish this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u91	I wanted to start my speech by thanking all the Ukrainian national MPs who have taken no note of our proposal to consider a very important issue of the recovery of children in the summer of Government Day. And we see, really, what we have to talk about is the problems that we need to solve today. Statistics show that up to 3.5 million children were healed in Ukraine 12 years ago. The services of a growing generation each summer included nearly one and a half thousand overseas health - care facilities. Over the past year, there were just over 800 camps in which a little over a million children were healed — three times less than 12 years ago. During the current year, 2 million children are scheduled to be cured, that is, 1 child in 5 is, of course, reduced by the length of time spent in health facilities. But it's already some step towards correcting the situation that has been involved in this for many years. When analyzing the figures, it is only natural to ask: First, why did the number of camps increased compared to 1995 and the number of camps decreased? Secondly, according to the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, even the existing child health network is ineffectively used. Last year almost half of them worked part-time, and about 60 of them didn't open at all. I would like to remind you that in Soviet times, at least 25 new specialized institutions were introduced each year. On the contrary, more and more are being closed each year. Thirdly, there is a negative trend when new owners or managers try to get rid of anything, especially children's health care facilities, when changing the form of ownership. We need to make a radical change in our approach to children’s health because the result is disheartening: 80 percent of teenagers have health problems. This is evident during the appeal to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And all of this is happening, despite the fact that we're taking a number of Presidential decrees and regulations and so on. Thus, the government should first propose to the Supreme Council a clear, specific mechanism for economic stimulation of the network of facilities for the recovery of children, and it is time for the MPs to deal with these recovery issues legislatively. Special attention needs to be given to the process of pricing routes at all levels. Surprisingly, tax and control authorities are in a position to include a certain part of a child’s health care facility in the list of profitable organizations. I would like to draw some attention to such questions. In order for the government to provide for a single line of funds needed and sufficient for the rehabilitation of children in the next year’s State Budget project. In doing so, we need to identify and bring to a wide range of citizen taxpayers a system for the distribution and control of such funds. We have certain hopes for a targeted national program. But we suggest that it be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I proposed a draft decision of the Supreme Council, where I offered to accept these proposals and many others, including partial subsidies from the State and local budgets of children's health institutions. And we certainly need to stop in all manifestations the process of destroying the child’s health system. And I'm hoping that we're going to take the draft decision that I've been working on so that a number of issues can be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll finish. We heard the question with a certain delay. We will consider and come out of the fact that we are listening to him in the future, so that we can take into account the problems and calculations that have been made. The information from the government that we've heard, it's full of statistics, it's done something. However, the complex, systemic nature of this work is not viewed, nor are the categories of parents and children who need it the first time. Obviously, there is a need for us to make provision in the determination to make inventory of all the healing facilities that are and were, in order to return them, and to work for the purpose. The same applies to labor camps and recreation that were previously divided, as well as to various types of sports facilities, sports courses. We should not allow these objects to be privatized and stretched out, which is already largely done. Special attention should obviously be given to children who are homeless, children who are left without parental care. And here, obviously, monitoring on the part of our profile committees should be systemic and constant. Special attention should be paid to the treatment of children, especially during the summer period, which is urgently needed. So the decision should, which we will consider and take on Thursday, adequately reflect the state of things and work for the future. Obviously, we need to build on that draft decision that was proposed by the Sameilik People's Deputy and based on it to work out a document that we could adopt on Thursday. This issue has been discussed. I announce recess until 12:30. Dear colleagues, there's an exhibition on the third floor of the "Exclusive" creative group. I'd like to propose and ask during the break to see this exhibition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of Government Day -- this is information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the state of preparation for the 2002 harvest. He will report and answer questions from the Minister of Agriculture Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please. For the report, up to 15 minutes, and then the answers to the letter, as well as directly from the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Preparations for the harvests of the Cabinet of Ministers began early. This issue was discussed at a field meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers in February of this year. During this period, a number of successive organizational and economic, financial and other measures were carried out. They allowed them to form the most effective basis for getting good and, in fact, quality by volume and quality of crops and other crops. The grain wedge is sown in the area of 13 million 900,000, even 200,000 more than it was last year. Much more than a year ago, fed by the winters, the entire complex of salt-probe was carried out in a timely manner, and according to scientists, it was by increasing the production technology of the Ukrainian grain wedge that has endured too many weather-climactic conditions that have not been observed in a number of regions over the last 50 years. In a number of areas, however, drought has led to partial loss of crops, especially in southern regions, from 25 to 35 percent of the area, and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to 50 percent of the area. The Cabinet of Ministers responded quickly to this situation The decision to allocate 30 million dollars from the Cabinet of Ministers’ reserve in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's a lot of money, you know, if you take into account the limits of the reserve fund. Similar decisions are also being made in a number of other areas. Overall, there are 33-35 million tons of grain production expected in Ukraine under these areas, as foreseen by the Grain 2002 Government Programme. The harvest that has already begun in most regions confirms our predictions. More than half of the bread has already been served in Crimea, Odessa, and Mikolai district are approaching these areas of agriculture in the Hersonian region. A total of 2.5 million hectares of grains have already been slaughtered and milked in Ukraine, and 5 million tons of grains have been crushed at the time of yielding 24 centrifuges per hectare. [[That's 20 percent of the area.]] A million grain producers of Odessa, the Mikolai region, have passed through the millenary of the millenium. In general, honourable national MPs, the expected quantities of grain production allow for the full satisfaction and export of the internal needs of the state, taking into account last year's transitional stocks that we already consider. Fortunately, we have at least 6-7 million tons. However, the most difficult problem that we deal with during the harvest work period is the level of technical security, the more faithful level of technical security. We are constantly dealing with this problem and, in fact, this is the only question that today, in case of improper organizational work, can lead to significant crop losses. The technical possibilities allow for the optimal collection of grain crops by only half of the area, and the rest can increase considerably because the combined load is 250 hectares in different regions. All available resources have been mobilized in preparation for the material and technical base for the collection of grains by the government. For today, more than 50,000 harvesters have been prepared and 90 percent have been employed during the 40 thousand harvests. The Minister’s office is also additionally designed to allocate 30 million bracelets for repairs and repairs only from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund. In addition, we share in the harvesting of 7,000,300 grains of farmland and handmade combines and 5,000,300 combines belonging to agrotechnics. At the time of the harvest work, the gathering teams of machinery stations allow the tension to be reduced. We've already created over a thousand. Of these, there are also some 6,000 foreign combines. The work is being organized from southern Ukraine with gradual movement to the northern regions. In addition, contracts have been made for the participation of 5,000,700 combines of farmers in the southern regions from the north and vice versa, as harvests from the south to the west and to the north are approaching. It should be noted that, starting this year, there has been a real opportunity to fill the combined park with partial compensation for the cost of complex maintenance techniques. The case has already begun and 43 combines have been purchased, and 30 percent of the government has cost the manufacturer these containers. So a complex approach, in our view, will allow us to significantly reduce the tension with grain harvesting techniques and gather grains mainly in optimal terms. I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that 22 and a half thousand combines are being repaired in our APC repair plants. We respecialized 53 companies to repair and repair the cavities only for combines. They've created 968 special companies and they've restored 13,000 repair workshops, which allows us to build, when we don't have a market that's full of new combines, most of the time, to build the best crop term. Our calculations are next. Last year, on average, we collected 550 thousand per day. Today, half the regions are involved, we're collecting 380,000 in a day. Now we're going to have an average of 660 and a peak of 800, up to 1 million hectares a day. So in these circumstances, the average area in 18-21 days is going to collect grain crops, and that's more or less, they say, a calm assessment of the situation. Of course. The second question is what happens during the problem in the oil market. The technology problem for grain harvesting is 620,000, 302,000 for the month of July, is 180,000, so it's provided. But, of course, during May and the first half of June, there was a significant rise in the price of diesel -- 38 percent, gasoline by 50 percent. I'm not going to, I'm going to answer the questions about the reasons here, but what the government is doing. In the third quarter, more than 500,000 tons of oil will be processed in oil refineries, allowing for the cost and positive impact on the price situation. It should be noted that in the last two weeks, both in the world market and also in the Ukraine market, retail prices in most regions have stopped rising, and in some areas they have decreased by 2.5 percent. We are developing with the support of the Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council on the establishment of a special stabilisation fund for the agricultural sector in 2003, and we will make proposals to finance the fund with up to 10 percent of the costs that come from diesel excises and gasoline. Dear National Deputies! The efforts of the government and local authorities are also focused on the formation of a transparent, stable grain market in accordance with Presidential decree of August 7, 2001. This is a matter of particular concern to us because we are an impartial person who sees that the stability and growth of agricultural production is, including grains, but market failure is very damaging and has a negative impact on the price situation. The stabilization of the grain market will also be facilitated by measures envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision on mortgage prices. In order to provide financial collateral for the purchase of grains, we propose to include in the budget list a new article for the following year on the financing of collateral purchases of grain. This will allow temporary recovery of at least 1.5-2 million tons of third-class wheat from the market during the peak. We are also preparing for the creation of the Agency for the regulation of the agricultural market as provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on a comprehensive programme for the development of the internal market. The Agency will ensure that demand and supply are regulated through the harmonization of production volumes and the implementation of strategically important products through the implementation of national target programmes. Analysts estimate that a manufacturer loses up to 30 percent of his income from an unprofessional marketing strategy on the market. This is, of course, an abnormal phenomenon. And that's why the government is taking real steps in this direction. One of the main measures to implement the marketing strategy and agricultural markets is the further development of physical market infrastructure. So far, every region has been created and operated by markets, agro-trade houses, cooperatives, including cooking, retail, wholesale, food, and we are particularly concerned about creating them at the district level and being created by the producers themselves, so that there are fewer intermediaries on the way to the consumer. Today, the Ministry is working consistently to create an agricultural market in the monitoring and forecasting system. We are trying to ensure maximum information for all market subjects and increase the profitability of manufacturers by identifying additional markets. Government measures to balance the internal market provide for maximum promotion and incentive of grain exports. Last year, Ukraine entered the world’s first six grain exporters. According to the Derbymite Service, 8 million tons of grain was exported in the past year. For further export, 11 million tons of grains have been registered for export. The issue of creating a competitive environment for foreign grain traders remains fundamental by supporting the creation of powerful domestic export companies. This was highlighted and criticized by the President of Ukraine at the All - Ukrainian Council on Reformed Rural Development. We are confident and very grateful to the National Deputies that many of these unresolved issues, which we are also trying to prove beyond short information, will be taken off by the Supreme Council of the Grain and Market Act of Ukraine. Financial and credit security is an extremely important condition for the efficient formation of the agricultural market. The situation of short - term loans has improved in recent years. In 2001, more than $5 billion was involved in the village. credits. Of these, $3 billion. - Plums. The solution to the cost-of-credit issue for the APC allowed them to receive 14 times as much as it was in 1999. In the current year, 2.5 billion dollars, including a billion 700 million dollars, have been added to the agrarian sector on July 1st. It is also important, of course, to take steps to reduce interest rates by commercial banks, whose level is almost three times higher than that of the national bank. This problem, in our view, needs to be addressed more consistently by all branches of government and the national bank. The factors that cause high interest rates need to be removed. The next question is the introduction of compulsory insurance for agricultural products. This should be one of the ways to minimize the risks of agriculture. Today, the government is proposing the introduction of compulsory insurance for agricultural products. I'm going to remind you that we have 40 percent of Ukraine's agrarian territory -- that's the definition of science, and 20 percent is the area of risk farming. Thus, it is also necessary to provide for compensatory insurance payments in the State budget and because the introduction of compulsory insurance can be a heavy burden for many manufacturers who have just come to the fore. Because, for example, if we were to secure our entire crop of 30 million tons of grain, we would need at least 700 million dollars. So caution must be exercised here, but this matter must be done according to the law of the Ukraine concerned. Honorable National MPs, Ukraine has declared itself a powerful participant in the world’s grain market. And the Cabinet of Ministers has the task of securing these positions, of securing permanent grain production in the coming year. The Cabinet of Ministers prepares for the next step in the 2004 grain program, with a subsequent increase in quantity and quality. The Ministry works here in several directions, and with regard to changing the structure of the sown areas, expanding the use of intensive technologies, providing external economic activity, searching for the market, and, of course, implementing the adopted grain law. To complete the information, I want with all responsibility, the distinguished national MPs, to assure you that the harvest in our country will take place in peace, and they will go in a peaceful organization of innovation, without abrasions, without fuss, bread, and there will be, and there will be enough for the bread, even with a good supply, of which we had only dreamed a few years ago. Because we have six million more transitional stocks. This is not for the sake of self-sustainment, but for the sake of the reports, but for the further mobilization of efforts towards the dynamic development of agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u95	Vasil Mikolaiovich, please answer a written question to the government. Please sign up for questions. Now the answer to the written question. And for the talk, please sign up at the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u96	First question from the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Chernobyl Disaster. "What will be the solution to the problem of plant protection? What is being done to introduce biological plant protection products?" To preserve crops, we need 19.5,000 tons of pesticides. Five years ago, it took 120,000 tons. But the point is that today new pesticides, which are less harmful and the standard of use per hectare is essentially 40 grams. We have and work with 20 foreign companies today, and we work on the pesticide market of 150 native agrostructures. The domestic industry produced 2,600,000 tons of pesticides. This is, of course, only less than 10 percent of the need. But we need to think carefully today, and together we need to make decisions about whether we should build new businesses to produce these poisons. Today, the pesticide market is full - scale. We have 22,000 tons, from which manufacturers bought 11,000 600 tons of their own money, 60 percent of it every year. And I want to thank you for this question, to say that today's more accurate and technologically complex use of pesticides has exactly allowed us to cope with the situation where the land has collapsed from drought, and grains and other crops have stood and endured such drought. The Ministry is working on the problem of the state registration of biological products and the expansion of their production range. We have a special order in place. We have a system of measures there, and we're working with labs that are currently under review for registration, there are 13 appointments of biofuels. In general, the issue is quite relevant, and the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, is working on it every day. The second question of the same committee. What concrete steps does the government plan to take to halt the burning of the rudder this year? Of course, this is such a disgraceful phenomenon. We can honestly say, in our own words, that we've never given this right point of view in any way, from the point of view of organizational and administrative action. But today we did a great organizational work and, as it were, we did a few selectors' meetings where we invited all the leaders, 60 with only a thousand men, and agreed that we would not assume such a primitive destruction of the remains with straw. In addition, the Ministry supported the draft Law amending article 77 of the Code on Administrative Violations of Increasing the Responsibility of Individuals and Officials for Burning the Stomach, which was proposed by National Deputy Anatoly Tolstouchov. This involves severe punishment in the form of various types and amounts of fines. Next question. Heads of the Special Commission, the Privatization Control Commission, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. Questions. What number of agribusiness enterprises are now operating in Ukraine, and how many have been bankrupted since their privatisation and re-profiled, including sugar factories, elevators, breadcombs, bread factories, and so on? To implement the President’s decree of December 3, 1999, the number 1529 was reformed by 11,000 200 companies. They have created 15,000,400 agri-market-type agro-forms, including agriculture, agriculture, 10 percent, agriculture, 23 percent, 49 agricultural cooperatives, 13 percent of service cooperatives, and others. The total number of companies registered today is 18 thousand 400. In addition, 42,000 farms are currently operating. And according to the operating data, the State Commission is operating a private farm without the creation of a legal entity, as stipulated by the President's decree of 3 December 1999 of 432 thousand land-particle owners. The number of non-state enterprises that have reformed and have no successor rights is 1,200. I'll remind you that before 01.01, we had a moratorium on bankruptcy. But at the moment, according to the Agency's operational information on bankruptcy, there are only 292 cases of bankruptcy of enterprises and 161 of them have been declared bankrupt. Next question. Is there enough processing facilities available today to store and process agricultural products? And what action has the government taken to ensure the activities of these enterprises and to prevent their bankruptcy and re-profile? Dear National Deputies! About 22,000 businesses, factories, and factories are producing food products in Ukraine. The Stateprod consists of 2 thousand enterprises, the system is a large complex, which includes industrial enterprises that produce more than 3,000 productions; plants that grow sugar beet seeds, grapes, gardeners, renewables, scientific research, project design institutes, construction organizations, business networks and so on. Currently, 98 percent of these 22,000 have been privatized. Businesses that have been privatized have both gains and, of course, negative results. And it's particularly worrying, really, we agree, the state of work in the sugar industry. Among sugar factories that did not work last year, 18 have been declared bankrupt and are assigned to an arbitrator, the estate manager. These are several farms in the Winnicki, Sumski, Kharkiv and Cherka oblasts. The available capacities of food and processing companies allow for much more processing and storage than available raw materials. The average capacity of these 22,000 is not more than 50 percent. The government has recently taken steps to strengthen the raw materials base of food and manufacturing enterprises. This, in particular, allowed in 1999 and in the coming years to produce food by 7.8 percent more, in 2000 by 26.1 percent more than in 1999 and in 2001 by 18.2 percent more than in 2000. This year, too, more than 10 percent in six months have increased the capacity and production of our food industry, our food industry, and our food industry. Of course, we do virtually daily conversion of Ukrainian sugar markets into civilized ones. A number of laws, regulations on minimum prices, distribution of quotas for production, export-import operations on sugar, sugar raw materials have been passed. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to remove sugar from the regime of free trade with the Republic of Belarus. The most recent time after the ratification of the relevant sugar document will be. the agreement has already been removed and the agreement between Ukraine and Russia has already been deleted. So the state is taking steps to configure and here is the sugar market, and the efficient operation of our sugar factories. The following fifth question was asked by the head of the Communist Party’s Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. How do you solve the problems of grain market formation? What is being done to stabilize him?" In my information, I even tried to give details of what was done today and should be done about the formation of the grain market. But thanks to the question, I would like to add that, today and yesterday, in the province of Ravenna, we have gathered an appropriate meeting at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we are working on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on mortgage prices and financial security. the financial provision of mortgage purchases of grain. By Decree 590, a decision was made to allocate 100 million budget costs per 100 percent interest rate of credit to government agents who would agree and engage in mortgage purchases of grain. This will allow us to add more than 1 billion credit resources and during the peak period, so to speak, temporarily from the market of 2.5-3 million tons of grain. Today, grain purchases have begun, and our company, DAK, the Bread of Ukraine and others, and for today, about 300,000 tons of grain has been purchased from the new crop. Of these, 27,000 tons was purchased by the DAK "Ukrainian Bread". The price, they say, thank God, was a little higher than last year on this third grade wheat date of 470 and a thousand dollars per tonne. We're also doing a series of other organizational and technical measures to make sure that our crops are properly managed. Because only for a natural payment on a pie would land, to pay for a job, here, for a contractual relationship with the owners of the pies would have to be issued in kind within 10 million tons of bread. And, you know, at the same time, to release 10 million tons of bread to a market that is not too civilized, it probably shouldn't be paid off in the form of paying off wages, even though in the past year, 1 billion debts have been paid off by agriculture. But we need to gradually move on to money. It's a question that, as it were, you can't solve it from the rostrum, and you can't make big councils. We're doing a proper job today with manufacturers, with pie owners in places so that we can break this year's negative trend when there's a lot of grain and it's literally released for two months and then there's no wholesale parties, it's going to the bucket market and the price goes down a lot. A draft decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the main directions for the development of the market agrarian market is also under way. The adoption of this project will accelerate the development of the necessary infrastructure for reliable resource provision for production and implementation of products and. The next question is, too. Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenka. What measures are being taken by the government to stop the baseless increase in electricity prices and fuel-oil materials and why prices are still not returned to the level of those that were before April 1, 2002. As far as electricity tariffs are concerned. In line with current legislation, the question of tariff policy is addressed by the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory in Ukraine. Individual electricity tariffs are formed by electricity companies as the sum of wholesale market price, taking into account the loss of tariff networks, not transfer and supply. Optimum market price does not change electricity every month because it depends on the volume of electricity produced by different generators, or generating companies. All of these types of generators use different types of fuel oil energy resources, and so the cost of their energy is, unfortunately, very different. In order to prevent a sharp increase in electricity tariffs for farmers, the Commission, by its decision of 28 May 533, established, as of 1 June, the marginal levels of the retail tariffs for farmers of 22.11 kips per kilowatt-hour. With regard to the increase in oil prices, the main thing to say is that the oil products in the Ukraine market are and were in sufficient quantity. Since the beginning of this year, oil and oil production has increased 1.6 times compared to the same period last year. The resourceful filling of the market was largely done on the basis of motor fuels of their own production. However, domestic oil factories use nearly 75 percent of foreign oil. Thus, oil prices depend heavily on world oil prices. There have been significant fluctuations in oil prices in the world market over the last few years, and unfortunately, in July and September. Since the beginning of May, fuel prices have increased because of the following factors. First, an increase in the value of Russian oil. In April and April, Russian oil prices rose by 50 percent, leading to an increase in oil prices not only in the Russian Federation but also in countries that are processing Russian oil and exporting parts of oil products to Ukraine. Second, Russia's increase in oil exports from $9 and 20 cents to $20.4 per tonne. Third. Russia's elimination of the export quota limit for oil in long-distance countries. And what we don't want is to increase fuel exports from Ukraine. To deal with the sustainability of the oil market, the Cabinet of Ministers and Mineconomies held meetings with managers of all oil companies and decided to take steps to increase the production volume by 500,000 tons, thus stabilizing and reducing the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u97	Sergei Mikolaiovich, I'm asking for a lecture not to read to the people's deputies. There is such an offer. The written questions will be answered in writing by the factions and committees. Now let's move on to the questions directly from the national MPs. Moreover, 23 national deputies showed a desire to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u99	National Deputy Kuharczuk, Communist faction. Next is to ask your question, Doloczko Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u101	National Deputy Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u102	Sergey Mikolaiovich, dear friends! That's my question. How you don't love Ukraine to destroy the agrarian sector of the state and all the time on TV, on the newspapers, and you're here today, talking and boasting about exporting grain. You'll think about it. By 1991, the average wage was 150-170 carbs. A person could buy, for example, up to a thousand loaves of bread, an equivalent. Today, the average wage allows 60-70 loaves of kilograms to buy. And we brag about selling abroad! I understand you, Sergio Mikolaiovich, you're the new minister, you've been working for 3 months, you're the ninth minister in 10 years. But I don't understand who put you and your colleagues in to brag about exporting bread when their own people can't eat bread? And the second question. What is the value of bread today, and what is the value mechanism when this year’s yield is reduced by at least 25 - 30 percent of gross grain and yield according to the hectare, the price of bread today is less than 400 dollars? And the third question is that. Fuel costs increased by 40 percent. Today, we do not have the opportunity to grow bread in such an approach. So I'd like you to answer, please, why? Because today, when it came to the issue of the President's impeachment, the law, the House voted 161 votes, and Tomic, the chairman of the committee, did not need it. How, then, can the state be ruled, and at the same time this parliament, which should rule the state, votes against? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, we can remember four or five years ago when many national deputies, speaking out of this rostrum, rightly spoke to the Cabinet of Ministers, that Ukraine, an animal, sold millions of poodles around the world during the time of the empire, and we could not, as it were, feed ourselves enough. Today's the next day. Every country in the world that has a little more bread to feed itself is trying to sell grain. And we're going to look for markets and we're going to run them. Because today it dictates a number of situations. First of all, 40 percent of the farms, although they've already taken up a certain amount of livestock, but farmers and others don't. We were always short on animal feeds. Today, there are enough food to feed animals to the fullest extent possible. The balance is: 4 million seeds, 7 million for our own consumption of bread, flour, groats and so forth, 10 million for animal farming and for the production of combustible food, and one and a half times we've increased the production and production of combustibles. The latter is necessary and must be exported. Because we're even worried when Europe has now raised its rates of import duty so it doesn't hit that rate. You don't have to be afraid of exporting grain, especially when this grain is enough. Of course, a lot of importers are coming to us today, and they're asking questions, we're going to buy you another 5 million and 10 million, but let's make it the kind of grain that it is today, so they don't import any more mineral fertilizers, so they don't import more pesticides, so it's organic production. And we must be thinking about that too. I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen, to say the least.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u104	I'd like to ask you a more concise answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u105	Thank you. So this is about export potential. Now it's about the cost of bread. Grain production in Ukraine is profitable. The first market trade, and of these, 300,000 tons sold, cost 470 dollars. Solvency 250-270. So we have 50-70, depending on the yield, the cost and efficiency of the seed is equal to the increased reproduction, the increased production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u106	National MP Toločko Petrovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko The next question will be from the National Deputy Kalinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I'm asking you to pass the word to Kirilchuku Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u108	Please, National Deputy Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u109	Kirilczuk Evgen Ivanovich, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko I want to say that the one who today is going to be very critical of the strong Rizuk Sergey Mikolaiovich will probably be unjust. However, today the Ministry of Agriculture is practically reporting, not the Cabinet of Ministers. I know it's very difficult for you to go through any question in the Cabinet itself. And you can see that the President's Administration also has an attitude towards you, we'll say, at the last minute. Why? I can give you dozens of examples and facts. One in particular. 255 million were set up in the State Budget for agricultural technology. You didn't say anything about that. How much and what kind of mechanism is this all implemented, and what is the amount of money that is used? If you can come back, because I don't care if we're a state of paradoxes, because we have four of our beautiful combos. From the West, German broken old, Polish bison, Russian combines from the East. Why is it that money is placed on our combines and they are not released? A hundred combines a year is a disgrace. And the second question. The Cabinet of Ministers issued a decision on the payment of electricity. And if this month the villagers have used a share of electricity there, they have to pay for electricity in advance, if they don't pay, they pay a fine of 50 times. Today, everything on the tractor brigade was turned off, even the tocarrying machines. How do you see the way out of these two situations?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u110	Thank you, Honorable People's Deputy Kirilchuk. Indeed, the budget provides 275 million. Of these, 255 are from a special fund for agricultural production. Used. The main article of 20 million today has raised 7.5 million, and they have allowed the acquisition of 45 million other non-budgetary funds to purchase this technology. We've specifically divided this fund into two parts that are going to go -- one part -- 250 million directly into factories, and that part that is going to go to the manufacturers that are buying technology. We want to say that it's so testy, I'd say, because 20 million is pretty little, it justifies itself, because today they're looking for money from the agrarian business structure to buy. The other thing is that these 255 million really don't work. Why? Because they are expected to be filled by the return of the credit producers themselves for the technology previously highlighted. That's over 3 billion dollars. There are virtually no reasons for this return. You know there's not enough money left to pay back. Thus, there is no proper fulfillment of this article, which means that it works poorly and does little. It's working. According to our belief, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy needs to radically change its own and principled approach, which no agriculture loan can lend to agriculture, because it will only be what it is. We really need to restore the capacity to build up and anticipate other costs, not when. Who could have given the peasants away.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u111	National Deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u112	I'm literally on electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u113	I'm asking you to do it more quickly and more concisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u114	Okay. With electricity, we hope that tomorrow after 14 a.m., the Cabinet of Ministers will consider this issue and we will find a positive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u115	National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u116	Thank you. [[Kalinczuk, Clothing, Ukrainian Agrarian faction]] . Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich, I have two such questions. Well, first of all. The clothing has already collected 55 percent of the grains, piling up more than 1 million 300,000 tons of bread. But this year, there are conditions that there's almost no gap between regions, so what's the term in which we're going to pick up crops of grain and not lose? That's the first question. And the second. What is done by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to improve the structure of sown areas that correspond to the repeated removal of bread, on the one hand, and on the other hand to adapt this structure of sown areas to market relations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. It is estimated that we now have in practice that, on average, every area from the beginning to the end of the harvest can actually end the harvest with the same combines under normal weather conditions in 18-21 days. But that's on the average, because we have, of course, farms that have grains that don't actually have combines, and it stretches not just for three weeks, but for a month and a month and, of course, huge losses come from that. Unfortunately, we have today a short term in these indicators that some farms, more than 30 percent of them, are able to carry out their harvests in five to seven days, especially in the south when it reaches at the same time and it's very dangerous in Polissa to get into August dew and so stretch. As a result, we have helped the regions to make suitable arrangements to help the central and police regions, where more crops are now, to resolve the issue. Regarding the structure of the sown areas. Thank you, it's a very interesting question for us because the Ministry of Agriculture policy today is engaged in diversification of production, changing the structure of the sown areas, because, Alexander Mikolayovich is right here, that one wheat trade is ultimately, inconvenient. We have decided and set up a state seed fund to restore the seeds of peas. Because it's 5 times smaller to restore the seeds on Polissa's shell, beans. We've quadrupled the production of soybeans and plazas, especially oil crops like rapeseeds. We've got it up to 277 ha and in the next 2-3 years at least to bring the area of crops to 1 million. Him. This change in the structure of the soybean area, it's also scientifically based, and it's going to be most adapted to market conditions and according to normal prices and efficient production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u118	Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, faction of "Ukraine". National deputy of Bulba, faction of the socialist faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u119	Minister, you said that Ukraine's territory is largely part of the risk zone. This is true not only in the south. Do you not think that this year’s destruction in the south of much of the grain, grain wedge, is the result of essentially destroying Europe’s most powerful irrigation system? And the second question. Is it even possible to recover at this level of irrigation farming in Ukraine under private land ownership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u120	Thank you. The correct question is that Ukraine’s irrigation system does not work more than 20 percent of its power and capabilities today. The central irrigation system, it's not destroyed. The problem today is that it's difficult to collect water from the canal and pass it on to the fields because they've broken the technology cycle when the state pays for the water supply, and the field is already being done by the manufacturer himself. We reported this to the Prime Minister, held an appropriate meeting at his level. Today, we are preparing for a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers to re-establish this whole funding and utilization scheme and, of course, to invent resources to meliorate water and other meliorations. I want to say that if today's Supreme Council, with our help, we have developed a draft Law on the Protection and Fertility of Grounds, and based on this law to introduce an article, based on the fact that national acquisition is the only thing that is our land, to protect and raise soil fertility, and from it to chemical, water, mineral fertilizer, and so on, to be introduced, it can literally be ordered in one agricultural year and run a complete irrigation system. With regard to this restoration of irrigation and other things, I have combined these two questions. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u121	National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u122	Matweenkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Nikolaevich, I have two questions for you. Question one. To date, many entrepreneurs and business entities have concluded land leases. The first year of work under such conditions has shown some effectiveness, some place where these conditions are ineffective. The treaties are drawn up in such a way that this cycle of relationships is usually five years. There are, let's say, elements somewhere or sites like us under Mariupol have a village called Gurzuf, where, for a year, they fight to break this contract and re-introduce it with another owner, where the owners of the cobwebs would like to go. What is the position in this situation of the Ministry of yours and how it affects these processes - the first question. And the second question. Well, of course, there's cleaning pain. Gas, diesel is, of course, the biggest, most painful question right now. The Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree that requires a licence for the carriage of this licence or so-called insurance for which it is necessary to carry out a tank of diesel or petrol on public roads. This has to do with the fact that there was once an accident on public roads where there were chemicals, you know, poured out. But so far, hands and feet, let us say so, for those who are engaged, people, today, cleaning, are literally bound by this decree. Your attitude towards this order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u123	Thank you. With regard to land rentals and contracts, they are indeed governed by appropriate legal regulations. The Ministry receives many signals regarding the failure to properly implement these contractual relations. Whether we go to a place or not, we look at it and help find justice here. Of course, some of the issues are resolved purely, as they say, in human terms, we find a common relationship; some of them have to be referred to the judicial authorities, because the Ministry of Agriculture policy today cannot, in any way, force the unscrupulous employee who made the lease agreement and does not execute or distort or dissatisfaction his partner. But what I'm saying is that every time we have these issues, the misunderstanding is getting smaller and we hope that these market relationships will be established and become systemic positive. With regard to diesel and transportation licenses, we've been asking these questions, I'm afraid I haven't done that. But a negative attitude, of course. I, let's view your question as a question, we'll consider it and we'll inform you separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u124	National MP Samofalov, European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u125	Dear Sergey Nikolaevich, I have had to watch grains in Ukraine for three years. And given what you said today that Ukraine is the sixth Power in the world as an exporter of grain, I would like to hear the answer to the question: What did the budget get from the implementation of the grain? That's the first one. Second. I know that the implementation of the seed was done, well, let's just say, softly expressed, by pocket exchange, when the governor says, "Here's the grain, that's how much to give to a firm at that price." In market conditions, this should not be the case, there should be stock markets. Today, there are 22 exchanges authorized by the Power that have the right to implement this grain. What will be the mechanism now this year, next year, in terms of the realization of grain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Of course, we do work to help create and run, as it were, the work of our native grain traders and create a healthy competitive environment between them in the grain market. The government has a corresponding small, of course, profit from the fact that it stimulates grain exports. But it's especially a matter of VAT return and so on, it's not settled. And the Cabinet of Ministers has been looking at it, and tomorrow we're going to continue, I think we're going to finish this question so that we can make a substantial return to the grain traders for the added value. We've had all the commodity markets accredited today. And we have the right as the Ministry of Law of the Stock Exchange, which in its work does not comply with the relevant rules, to remove the license and to stop its activity. The other thing is that today we have a long way to go to join the manufacturer and to understand the manufacturer that he's always more comfortable selling grain on the stock market than selling it to the middleman, and, of course, at reduced prices. So we have recently created the Transnistrian Commodity Exchange, where futures contracts are already being traded. And we can see that this is a question of such an immediate perspective that is effective. So this system needs to be improved, we need to keep more control over what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u127	People's deputy Rahan faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, the State Budget for the current year provides for the allocation of 147 million dollars for the support and development of the rural social and municipal spheres. I know that in your ministry, you've kept a structure like the Uksulkomhosp, which should be working together with many social and communal communities in the country. And that's good. Please tell me, how much is allocated for these purposes during the first half of this year? And what are your projections for the full allocation of these funds throughout the year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u129	Thank you. Of course, with the help of the President of the State, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has been able to allocate 147 million of the 470 million dollars budgeted for capital construction to return to the peasants for the construction of the rural social sphere. Regrettably, I have to say that practically for these purposes, the funds have not yet come. Moreover, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is now deprived of the ability to directly control the flow of these funds because they are going or are going directly to the district government. We've asked this question one more time in the Cabinet of Ministers. And we will strive to restore the order and the system when it worked, and we will know in each of Ukraine’s agricultural areas what is the situation, how much construction has not been completed, and how the issue is being resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u130	National MP of Kosovo, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u131	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. First of all, I'd like to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have this tradition in the Supreme Council of previous calls. When we discussed the matter of Government Day, we exchanged one written question, one oral one. You yourself have seen that the answer to a written question alone is not effective. I feel that this practice needs to be restored. Just as in discussing other important issues: budget, office of ministers. It's worth not only the factions and the committees, but also the members of the ranks. And now to you, Sergio Mikolaiovich. Last year, 2001, our agricultural production has grown high, as in the last 15 years, nearly 40 million tons. And at the same time, this has resulted in huge losses for agricultural producers. Because when we had 25 million tons in 1999 and bought 250 dollars of grain, in 2000 it was, as you remember, 890 dollars, it fell again to 400 in 2001. Is such a grain market policy not a major challenge to the unsolvable issue of this might be the most important public sector in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u132	Thank you. Indeed, the underdevelopment of the agricultural market and, above all, the grain market is the only major cause that allows for such declines in farmers’ incomes and in gross grain harvests. We hope that with the adoption of the Grains and Market Act, we will be able to stabilize and regulate the final grain market. Because when there are no basic fundamental rules and we are forced by the Cabinet of Ministers to make interim decisions that are unfunded and that are actually without funds, it is virtually impossible to effectively manage and run government regulation through the grain market. Indeed, today we have come to understand, and this is a great deal more important than ours — the high gross harvest of grain. Today, even the sower’s area is needed, not just for grains, but for gross grains. Today it is necessary to do so from market needs, from market opportunities, because today, in market conditions, when you produce more grains and thus preserve small negotiable and basic funds and resources of peasants, it turns to poverty, not profit. So this is the most important question for us and we are grateful that you asked it. We will adjust it during this season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u133	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues! We have 25 minutes left. A statement from the committee and then a discussion -- 20 minutes. Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. The committee with a joint report will be headed by the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic. Please. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Hearing the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Information Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the state of preparation for harvesting has, unfortunately, become traditional because there is no comprehensive, systematic approach to its solution. On the eve of the harvest on June 21, this year, in view of the position of public organizations, our committee made a statement from this rostrum regarding the urgent need for the government to address serious problems in the agro-industrial complex. First. The problem of rising prices in light of oil products has already become a system in Ukraine just before the harvest. To buy them today, farmers need to spend an additional 500 million dollars, and by the end of the year, they will have to spend over a billion dollars. In addition, the loss of bread associated with prolonged harvesting for possible deficits in the purchase of fuel-oil materials should also be added. The other one. The collapse of agricultural prices, the situation in the grain market last year, caused the loss of grain to 1 billion dollars of income and to half a billion dollars of income. If half a ton of diesel fuel was sold by agricultural companies in 1990, it is already necessary to sell eight times as much in 2002. In general, the issue of pricing, including inter-branch regulation aimed at agriculture, has not yet been addressed by the government. Today, it is difficult and impossible to form a market for agricultural products as a whole without State mechanisms for grain market formation. The mechanisms of fixed grain purchase are one way to solve this problem in countries with developed market economies. In the government budget, however, for 2002, as in previous years, such an article is unpredictable. The government's search for ways to launch these mechanisms is now clearly stalling. One of the most complex problems in the collection of bread is the provision of agricultural equipment. The car tractor park of agricultural enterprises has a steady trend toward aging and reduction. More than 80 percent of available machines are technically worn - down and are morally outdated. At the same time, in such a situation, executives have not yet begun to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Machinebuilding for the Agricultural Complex. So out of the 20 million dollars allocated to the government budget for partial compensation for the cost of the hydrotechnics, only 24 percent were funded by Minfin, although according to the schedule these costs were due in June yet. The problem of land use is very important. This year has shown that in areas where farming is at risk, it is not possible to reach stable production rates without due regard for the use of cultivated land. In addition, this year's drought in the south of Ukraine just pushes us once again to the fastest possible introduction of the agricultural risk insurance system. Of course, today's difficult situation in the field could be greatly reduced if the requirements of the law are met, such as encouraging agriculture for 2001-2004. However, a number of its main provisions are not being implemented, including the allocation of budget resources for the agricultural sector for at least 5 percent of the budget. As part of its analysis of the government’s agricultural activities, primarily its financing, the agrarian sector was funded only 77 percent in the first half of that year. You can't say that coming out of this, it's a priority. Regrettably, we often, the Government and the Supreme Council, act as firefighters, resolving in haste a single problem without communication with others and predicting their consequences. Today, significant costs are lost by manufacturers in the implementation of their products through commercial intermediaries. However, the government does not raise the issue of the creation and support of state-owned, cooperative sales organisations that would provide an alternative to commercial intermediaries. on marketing channels for agricultural production. And this has to be a target state program. This is a real step towards eliminating poverty in the Ukrainian village. In addition, given the export orientation of our agriculture, such cooperatives could become important export players, expanding existing markets and acquiring new markets. In general, in this area of government, it would be more healthy to be aggressive. Perhaps it is time for our embassies to appoint agricultural ambassadors. We often hear of an innovative way of developing the economy. But we cannot speak seriously about modern agriculture without serious investment. Regrettably, the volume of foreign direct investment directly in agriculture has been and remains meagre today, without a food industry. 15 million dollars in 2000, and 6 million dollars in 2001. Many outstanding problems in the agricultural lending system. Thus, the article on spending as the financial support of the APC through the loan-pending mechanism is funded by only 67 percent this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u135	Ivan Fedorovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u136	I mean, there's a real problem in creating a comprehensive system of financial credit for agriculture, without which we're not going to ask the question of harvesting and other agricultural issues. Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! Ukraine is an agricultural state, agriculture is a priority sector of the economy. We often stress this. Therefore, we should always remember that there is no country without a peasant. And the village is the deep roots of language and tradition. Our goal is a rich peasant and a rich nation. Nature has generously given us the earth, the intelligent, and the industrious. The political will of all branches of government is also needed, focused on achieving this goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ten national deputies have been enrolled to speak from the rostrum. The word has the national deputy of Kosovo, the faction of "Our Ukraine", followed by the national deputy of Rahansky. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an announcement that there will be a meeting of faction leaders, groups of deputies, as well as heads of the three Committees on Security, on Euro-integration, on issues of foreign affairs with Secretary-General Robertson of NATO. I ask everyone who participates to be in the conference at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u138	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! Before today's issue of order, we received a collection of aids and analytical materials from the Cabinet of Ministers. And we should give you, the distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the positive role these materials played in preparing for today’s discussion. It would be good if it became a tradition at all. At the very beginning of what was presented to inform the people's deputies, it is said that the Cabinet of Ministers and this year continues to implement the 2001-2004 government programme "The Grain of Ukraine", which was approved, as we know, as early as 2000. According to what can be read here, this year’s gross grain harvest is projected at 37 million tons. So, Alexandre Mikolaiovich, it's not going down by 25 percent, as you said, but much less, well the figure here stands anyway. But once again, as the minister of agro-industrial politics has said in answer to yours and my question, it is not just about growing grain. I remember that as early as October 17, 1990, this is 12 years ago, in this room we adopted the current Law on Priority Rural Development and Agricultural Production in the People's Farms. None of the normative provisions of this law are currently being implemented and are not provided for by other normative acts, because, I don't remember any article there seems to be 10th, but it doesn't matter, it was intended to create legislation on the parity of agricultural prices and agricultural production. Is it being done? Of course, this is not being done, and this is the basic disaster of today’s manufacturer. We were already talking about creating an agricultural market. He's not made today. So in the end, I, you know, want to say here and in the decision that is proposed on behalf of the Supreme Council Committee, and what the Ministry of Agricultural Policy is proposing is to go to a number of legislative acts. So, Mr. Secretary, but it would be just great and it would be a real benefit if you could put all these unresolved issues together and offer us not so much, you know, a conflict around this issue, but the adoption of a specific set of laws that would settle once and for all the time the issue that we are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u139	Rahansky Anatoly Warfolomyovich, Party of Entrepreneurs Get ready for the girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u140	Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency, faction of the Political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine, the Deputies of the Black Tribe. Dear colleagues, we are considering today a matter of strategic importance to our nation. Every year at this time, we turn the harvest, the joy of harvesting crops into imitations of the peasant’s help. The village is now undergoing major changes in agricultural reform. And that's why it needs attention more than ever. Sadly, the situation in the countryside today is difficult. I just arrived from the constituency, where I took part in a session of the district council of the Sari district, and attended the harvests in a number of farms in the area. One of them is the "Friendship CHPS", Chief Gavrushenko. The land has 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] of land, some 2,000 acres [2,000 ha] below the grains. In the rain, you know, there's not much hope in Crimea. Maybe that's why the North Crimean Canal was built. And there were good crops in the waterlands. And the question is, "What happened when the wheat on the watery land gave up to 20 centrifuges a hectare?" - peasants with tears in their eyes say, "Ask those who turned off the electricity in May when the fields needed to be irrigated." So let's figure out what a peasant would make out of 1 hectare of land at this rate. An estimated 300 to 350 kilograms [300 to 350 kg] of grain will remain. Will farming last until the next harvest, and will the farmer’s desire to grow grain at such wages?Oh, my God! Of course, harvesting is a responsible time. But the harvest does not depend solely on the harvest effort. There are many factors that need to be addressed daily. Human factors are the main ones. So far, the social and social sphere, which has been passed on to rural councils without a proper base, technology, capital investment, remains very unsatisfactory. And the states declared in the budget for the current year for these totals, as the minister said, are still not being allocated. And this puts the newly created rural communes on the brink of extinction. Water supply and gasification are slow. For example, in 80 villages in the Kingdom region of my district, there are only wells at a depth of between 150 and 200 meters, and the length of the watercourses is over 1,000 kilometers. All of them have come to their senses and are not being repaired. From the 2002 budget, there is not a single penny of money available in the amount of 300,000 dollars for the gasification of villages in the public treasury. This is despite the Prime Minister’s three commission to speed up the financing of these objects. I feel that the same is true in many other areas. So it will take a little time, and these problems will be joined by the most important problem: the lack of human resources. This process is already under way. And we need to stop him so we're not too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u141	Thank you. The word is given to Omeljan Nikonovich from the Communist faction, to prepare Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u142	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies and invited. Today, it is very important to say that the issue of contribution has been put into the agenda of the government’s day, namely, the state of preparation for the 2002 harvest. The efforts to bring this issue into order by the faction between me and my companions have prompted three mutual negative trends in the agribusiness complex. This is primarily the state of the park of gathering and engineering. On the threshold of the main harvests, when you're legally charged with one combine of 80-90 hectares of grain, you have today a calculation of 230-250 hectares, which is 2.5-3 times higher, and having a physical state and a moral existing technique, providing it with spare parts and materials of 25-30 percent of the norms. So the actual load on each aggregate is going to go up 3.6 times the norm. So by the biological term of grain harvesting, 12-14 days, in fact, the harvest will stretch out a month and a month and a half when there's nothing to collect. It's different. As we know, the cost of grains up to 10 percent depends on the crop of grains is the cost of fuel - oil materials. Traditionally, the government does not implement article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which obliges the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that financial and price policies are implemented. From the government's fault, prices of fuel-oil materials in May and April increased by one and a half times, and by the end of the year, government officials are forecasting 30 to 40 percent. To solve the first and second questions, peasants need money, big money. Where are we going to get them? And where are they going to take the costs when average prices for agricultural products in agriculture were reduced by 13.6 percent in January-May 2002 to 2001, including 23.5, livestock production by 6.7 percent and fuel, mineral fertilizer, herbicides by 6.7 percent, and the trend is rising. The economic situation in the agricultural sector has increased sharply due to the sharp rise in fuel prices. So in May/June of this year, the price of diesel rose by 30 percent and the price of gasoline by 64 percent. The demand for diesel producers for early grains and grains is 890,000 tons, and during autumn-field work it is 800-600,000 tons. On June 15, 2002, there were only 183 thousand fuel companies. That's 11 percent for the total. On the basis of the above analysis of additional materials from the mentioned question, I conclude: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is urgently taking concrete steps to ensure the full provision of oil products by agricultural producers and to stabilize prices for them; return to the village the funds provided for in the 2002 budget; implement for a long time. the urgent preparation of farmers; the provision of partial reduction costs in the 2003 draft budget, ensuring that the requirements of the agriculture promotion law are met unconditionally for the period 2001-2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! Requesting every MP to comply with the rules. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich of the Agrarian Party. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u144	Ivan Kirilenko, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear members of the government! Let us be frank, with our peasants, with our peasants, with our peasants, with all the branches of power, and in the center. And in these conditions, everything is done to obtain a substantial crop of the main food resource of the grain - nation. And there is this crop today. And he's as decent as he was last year. The food security of the State will certainly be ensured. More to the point, last year’s transitional grain leftovers almost provide the country’s annual need for bread. You might as well give me some advice. But the moods are far and wide. And most of all, it's not just that grain harvesters are in a critical state, it's not just that, as always, the day before harvest, the fuel was on the increase. These are, indeed, significant negative factors that will have a major impact on the gathering complex. The most complex problem in another is how it is convenient for both the manufacturer and the consumer to realize what they are growing. The grain market is still standing. There's no good price. The money in the agrarians is zero. It's not nearly a complex and expensive autumn complex. One and a half months later, a new soybeans. You also have to pay off the loans, you have to settle with people for pies. Note that some 14 million tons of grain will be sold, and its food production is much higher. It's going to be sold for 12 months, not one minute, and the money is needed today. The result of these simple calculations is known: the supply is significantly higher than the demand in the coming weeks, and so we can expect a collapse of prices that occurred last year. And that means the unfavourable economy of grain farming for farmers, and they're just waiting for grain. The voices of hotheads are basically going to cut the soybeans below the grain just to the level of the need of the state, that's essentially twice as much. And the ground's all torn up. It is impossible to increase the area by sunflower or sugar beet and inadequately, or technologically, today. No, Ukraine was, is, and will be, a grain state. The only condition is that more than one village and branch ministry should be concerned about the grain issue in Ukraine. You can borrow it. We're exporting about 7 million tons, and we have twice as much resources. What's holding it back? Port management can only carry up to 6 million tons. Whose question is that? Who are we selling to? To whom can we sell twice as many Ukrainian grains? Who will take care of this? It's not a simple external market to integrate into which even with a product like bread is extremely difficult. Perhaps our diplomats can and should say their word here because it was the President who emphasized the economics of their activities. Next. Why do we have such expensive export services? They are much higher than in a dear Europe. The farmer in the European Union has 80 percent of the proceeds of exports, not counting colossal subsidies, and half of the farmer is forced to pay for mediocre services. And who's the middle guy? Unfortunately, Ukrainian grain is exported by a foreign trader, perhaps by the poor. It's not possible for them to buy the volumes of the Treeserve grains and the DAC of the Bread of Ukraine. To conclude, at the head of the agrarian sphere in the state, highly qualified professionals are witnessing today’s report and hearing. They clearly understand the current trends in the agricultural market, how they can solve these and a number of other problems, which are already mentioned and will be highlighted, but they need to be resolved immediately, because tomorrow will be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u145	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, get ready for Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u146	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly warned society about the lack of logic in the actions and intentions of the agrarian reformers, which has lasted for the second decade. The so-called sub-division of the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy has turned to a severe crisis for the Ukrainian village and rejected Ukraine until the Middle Ages. To avoid being loud, I'll be more specific. During the last ten days he has been in Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankivsky, Chernobyl. More than 65 percent of households are unable to complete the harvesting of early crops. The Cabinet of Ministers was informed of the state of affairs in the village. Especially about the fuel price hike. There were also statements on this matter. But the cart is still there. More wonderful information than I've read today in the manual that we've been given -- "The state of preparation for harvesting," and more than that, when you know the situation on the spot, I haven't met. Working in agriculture for more than 30 years, I can actually see something else, and that's seen in the manual, because it was prepared by those who, at least, in replacing the minister, stayed to prepare for decades. They probably took this help about 15 years ago when we actually had a couple, and that's it. The question is. Where is the formation of regional food resources anyway? They're not there because there's no money. What 3 million is. A ton of mortgage purchases? It's a stunner that's pulling the state over the peasant's neck. Because they buy 20 to 25 copies of grain per kilogram without knowing when it will be implemented. And there's still no resources for that. Technically, we can collect bread in Ukraine in 2.5 months, and that's reality. As for the creation of agro-firms or the creation of agro-food markets, it's for those who want to buy grain in the countryside. The question is, where is the state? This is where you'd bring the story of the bear man. But the man was smart, and the bear was on the side of the state, doing nothing to the peasant. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the South has become very difficult, and many loans have been taken. You have to think about the Cabinet of Ministers about how to repay or restructure these loans, debts, because there are force majeure circumstances here. Please tell me, isn't there a toy issue today to solve the long-term lending of farmers? A government order. Why are we afraid of a government order? You have to buy grain from your people. And we keep banging and saying that the agrarian sector, the agrarian sector! I see how many deputies there are and how many representatives of the agrarians are there. I think we can make a difference if we are in principle in our actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to complete this consideration, we need to continue our meeting for 15 minutes. Houbsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich, "The People's Landing", prepare the Saint. Please comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u148	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, the problem that we are discussing is traditional. And traditionally, we are said to be delaying in taking timely and effective steps to prepare for harvesting. Well, the first aspect, of course, is technique. A catastrophic situation has arisen with the provision of technology for agriculture. Of course, the construction of the power plant made the production of the combines, and today we have listened to more than 120 appointments, including grain harvesters. But from my point of view and from the point of view of our MP group, it's still a drop in the sea, and these measures are not united into a single such, solid, normal state program. Because the implementation of agricultural reform, which was established by the President's decree, had exactly foreseen the development of the most specific government programmes. So from our point of view, today we need to initiate and create an appropriate government programme by allocating funds in the State Budget for the following year to ensure the creation of appropriate and necessary modern Ukrainian technology. The second question is how agriculture can be credited, particularly for the purchase of technology. Because we understand very well that those credit rates, which are even partially compensated by the National Bank, don't allow the farmer to buy technology. And we understand very well that even the information we received today is a drop in the sea. Part of it, maybe because the loans provided and issued by commercial banks, they solve not more than 5 to 10 percent of the problems of both purchasing techniques and financing crops. And that's why we have to solve this issue in a complex way. On the one hand, lower the credit rates to an acceptable level and, on the other hand, place the costs in the budget at full, I emphasize, offset the credit rates for agricultural producers. And then the manufacturer will have the cost of buying technology for five to seven years. In addition to being selective, it is also difficult to obtain credit because of the lack of funds, the lack of interest compensation. And that also makes the process of obtaining credit opaque, which is what manufacturers suffer, we suffer with you, we suffer with people who choose us. And the next, very important thing is that we have to create a civilised market for agricultural products, including grains. We've been talking about this for years. There were the President's decrees, the Cabinet's decrees, and we passed the Grain Market Act. What we're talking about is the creation of an intervention fund for the state, not in words, but in reality, in which the budget is set up. And then we won't have a situation like last year, when we produced 40 million tons of crops, the price dropped twice -- and all agricultural producers lost money. Is this a normal situation? As in all civilized countries, it is necessary to set up the budget for the intervention fund, to buy too much grain, and if there is underdevelopment, to sell. Well, it's an axiom that exists all over the world. Why don't we? And I'm absolutely confident that in the next year's budget, this is going to be one of the key issues, by deciding which one of the key issues we're going to be able to tell our voters is that one of the key issues, namely, the support of an agricultural producer, is solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u149	Holy Dmitry Volodymyrovich, "Deminiciates." Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u150	Respectable national deputies, agricultural production accounts for about a third of Ukraine’s GDP. It has a very good agricultural production for both geographical and soil conditions. For good reason, in the Paris Chamber of Peace and Weight, Ukrainian Black Land is preserved as a reference to the soil. The country in which the Ukrainians walk is worth about $300 trillion, or $38,000 in our country’s annual budgets. In the last two years, agriculture has undergone positive structural changes. Instead of 11,000 farms and councillors, more than 6,000 private and private - lease farms have emerged. The adoption of the Earth Code has become an important milestone in the reform of the agricultural sector. At the same time, no other area of Ukraine has such rich natural resources and undeveloped technologies as manufacturing and market technologies, both in agriculture. Self-sustainment policies, significant external debt, along with government involvement in agribusiness and lack of market institutions, have led to sector stagnation. Productivity in this field is twice that of 10 years ago. The production of per capita grain is not limited to developed European countries but also to Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, and Hungary. The production of per capita meat in 10 years has declined more than threefold, one of the lowest in Europe. Special emphasis was placed on the technical equipment of the APC. What is the quality of harvesting that can be considered when a grain-gathering park is only half of the need for farming, 70 percent of them are old-fashioned techniques. The country’s standard of living is rapidly falling. At which point this is happening much faster than in cities. The average monthly wage on agriculture is only half of the average wage on the national farm. The social sphere is virtually neglected. Its situation is getting worse as many social sites are on the balance sheet. The gaps in the legal and regulatory framework create preconditions for the spread of the shadow economy and the criminalisation of rural economic activity. Now, in the shadow of the agro-industrial complex, over 8 billion dollars are rotating, while the fuel-energy complex does not exceed 5 billion dollars. The development of agrarian reform is accompanied by significant structural distortions. Yes, development benefits are granted only to individual high - cost industries. Industry such as pottery, sugar beet production, is in deep decline. Agrarian reform needs to be given a complex character, socialization and greening. The priority for farmers is to form large corporate integrated forms of agriculture and agribusiness. On this basis, in the future, it can be formed into industrial and financial groups with the participation of agricultural enterprises. At the same time, it is necessary to support the commercialization of small and medium-sized farms, to turn them into family farms with a market orientation with a basis for forming them in a stable middle class village. To this end, a law should be adopted to support small forms of agricultural production. In order to stimulate investment in the APC, a zero VAT rate for investment goods should be introduced for 5 years in order to meet the requirements of the APC, provided that they are manufactured in normative terms, provided that they are in force in Ukraine by standards or contracts. Members of the Democratic Initiative Group believe that the urgent use of these measures will help stabilize the situation in the field and ensure the positive effects of market reforms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u151	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Prepare Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u152	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! It is well - known that crops need not only to be grown and harvested but also to be preserved and processed. Can we expect that the hard work of farmers will not be lost because of the lack of proper conditions for their preservation and processing? According to the privatization authorities, the property reform of the agribusiness complex has almost been completed. Today in Ukraine, the privatisation process is followed by the bankruptcy of processing enterprises. Almost every day in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, the government courier publishes a notice of bankruptcy. I won't count them, you see them. During the last week alone, the Privatization Control Board was approached by labor groups of many depraved sugar factories, meatheads. According to employment groups, there are signs of criminal activity during business bankruptcy proceedings. The property of these companies is sold at no cost, and the equipment is exported to the metal shop. There's a bankruptcy agency in the state, a public prosecutor's office, but we don't know any cases of a case of fictitious bankruptcy or bankruptcy. I'm very sorry to mention this today. Of course, considering that the area of sugar beet crops has declined almost twice as much as 1990, and the gross congregation has nearly tripled. Sugar factories are doomed to bankruptcy. But in Ukraine, there must be a food supply programme for the state -- an effective use of the existing productive potential. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today. Compared to 1990, sugar production declined by 3.5 times. Would the Cabinet of Ministers continue to be indifferent to the collapse of sugar factories? If our government declares a resurgence of weeding, then the question usually arises, what will the government do if there are no reprocessing industries? Today, 192 sugar factories in the country are privatized. Of these, 95 factories are in bankruptcy. Including, 44 factories already have a suitable one. is defined as bankruptcy. Besides, today's caseloads of 2 loaves, 3 elevators that have already been declared bankrupt, I'm not going to call them. This is both Bilocerkovsky and Snigurowski and Danube, and Zaporzik 1. These are the questions that need to be considered today. In view of this state of affairs, we suggest: 1. Inventory of the financial situation of the Agro-industry complex and compile a list of those enterprises that need to be decided upon. 2. By making an inventory of the financial situation, analyze how the investors involved in the privatisation process are carrying out their investment commitments. 3. To channel part of the funds received from privatization to the rehabilitation of enterprises. If the state needs processing, it should think about the rehabilitation mechanism because of the appropriate allocation of funds. And the last. By implementing article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of privatization in the agro-industry complex, to reprivatize those enterprises that could be useful to the state. You don't have to say there's no mechanism. The law is, but it must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u153	Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u154	My fellow Members, of course, we are ashamed of you today before the government that the government is present and there are no deputies. But the question that is being considered today, not today, is not the question of whether we are going to harvest or not today. Let's gather! The other thing is which term and how state will handle it. I asked Sergey Mikolaiovich how we should not love the state, not love our Ukrainian people, to turn the mighty agrarian state into a shallow, furry state. And today a colleague here stood up to me and said: 11. Not from 11, and out of the 12,000, 642 large farms are now said to have been made over 60,000. Where are we going, which Europe? We're going to South America! So, dear friends, our country today, and tomorrow, and in the future, will grow only by an agro-industrial complex, as Russia grows into Siberia. And that's what everyone needs to know. And when I said in a reply that today, when it came to the President's impeachment, I think 90 percent of the deputies covered their souls. Only because of the collapse of the agro-industrial complex would the President's mistrust reveal whether there is a law or not? It's not the government's fault, the government's already 9th or 6th, there's no difference. In order to keep any branch floating, we need two questions to be solved in order to have a powerful sector that feeds people. And I think today's government that works, and here is the deputy head of the Cabinet of Ministers Leonid Petrovich, a man of that time, a man as a product, and a minister who knows what a great commodity production is. And today, knowing this, they understand very well that one of the Cossacks came out of this rostrum and wisely said that a scientific programme for the priority development of the village had been developed. He's an ideologist himself, but he's a question. I don't understand why he doesn't understand the leadership of a nation that's going to rule without understanding what they're doing. And the last. I, my dear friends, think you'll agree with me, we don't deny the government or the management of the agro-industrial complex today, they're new and powerless people, but they have to make proposals on two issues. The first question is government procurement and the monopoly of the state on bread. And the second question is simple, but to the full need, a loan of 3-5 percent. Neither the minister nor the advance need any more instructions. An agro-industrial complex and all those who surround it and serve it also works. The agro-industrial complex today is 60 percent of the gross domestic product. Today we have an agro-industry state, not an agro-industry, but an agro-industry, and unfortunately, the leadership probably doesn't know it, has forgotten it. So, dear friends, I think what Kosov said is necessary, Leonid Petrovich, Sergey Mikolaiovich, shake the dust off the village's priority development law, work on it and bring it into this hall. I'll tell you what, you're going to be the creators and you're going to stop what the current leadership is doing. It won't take long, maybe six months, maybe a year and a half, we'll have new leadership in the state. I believe we're going to change course and change the course of government development rather than productive relations. And what productive relations will be in this state, whether you or I, who will come after us, will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u155	Is there a Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich? I don't see him. There is no Pavlovsky. Minister of Agrarian Politics Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are grateful that this issue has also been included in the message of the day and for today’s constructive consideration. I'm frankly, frankly, that the questions you've been asked, the criticisms you're making, they're in absolute majority consonant with our concerns, and the excitement, and we're working on their development and improvement. The system of all legislative and regulatory bases, market setup and agrarian markets, is very good. And thank you for addressing this issue today, much broader than the agenda for the Day of Preparation for the Harvest. The harvest is coming, indeed, as Alexander Mikolaiovich said, we will collect this bread and try to do without material loss if we cannot do so today without loss. Thank you. And we look forward to further fruitful cooperation in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m0.u157	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, one of the most important issues of the harvesting complex has been the issue of technical security. Practically all those who spoke called attention to this. It is this problem that is going through red risk through a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree that prepared a profile committee. It is proposed to recognize the government's activity in providing and preparing for harvesting this year in such a way that it does not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Development of an Agro-industry Complex. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee is urging the Government to take concrete steps to ensure that farmers are fully provided with petroleum products and to stabilize their prices. Also, by August 1, this year, we will be able to fund all the expenditure budgeted for this year for the agribusiness complex. In addition, a number of necessary bills are proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Other organizational and practical measures are also in place. The vote on this question will take place on Thursday. There's a break in 16 hours. Thank you.
