ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system, please. Please register. To - 341. The number of deputies registered in the hall is 341. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to give the customs authorities the right to operational search activities. Reporter is Head of the State Customs Service Kalensky Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing a bill proposing the right of Ukrainian customs to carry out operational search activities. The need for this is due to the basic functions laid down in the legislation for customs, the need to reconcile existing conflicts in a number of Ukrainian laws, and the situation in the organization of the fight against smuggling. Many may wonder whether customs authorities should be given the right to carry out operational search activities. Because this right is now granted to the Ukrainian Security Service, other law enforcement agencies that are operationally involved in smuggling. However, the task of combating smuggling and breaches of customs rules under current legislation has been placed on the State Customs Service and an appropriate material, technical, and informational basis has been created. In 1992, the administration of antismuggling and customs violations was formed, and the appropriate units in the area accounted for a total of 1,200 employees. At the same time, our nation has interstate agreements on mutual assistance and cooperation in customs matters more than thirty countries in the world. Customs authorities of all European and SND countries have the right to carry out their search activities, except Kazakhstan, Albania and Ukraine. At the same time, the lack of the right of customs to carry out such activities leads to the failure of the relevant services of foreign countries to view the Ukrainian State Service as an equal partner. This is primarily due to the fact that designated services and law enforcement authorities are given legislative powers to carry out full-scale search activities. In addition, the right to operational and search activities will allow timely information on the abuse of customs officials and the adoption of appropriate preventive measures. I would like to point out that the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities will be carried out within the limits of the provisions envisaged for the maintenance of customs authorities. It should also be borne in mind that the right to operational and search activities is proposed not to all customs authorities, but only to departments to combat smuggling and breach of customs rules and their own security. In general, the bill, which is being tabled, does not deprive other law enforcement agencies, including the Ukrainian Security Service, of their right to fight smuggling. Respectable national MPs, illegal activities of criminal groups with access to international levels, and considerable amounts of smuggling of goods, weapons, narcotics, and historical cultural values require the State to take the necessary measures to combat them. The draft does not conflict with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, European Union legislation and corresponds to the basic provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. It is also in line with the decision of the SND Heads of State Council on the basis of the customs legislation of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States since 10 February 1995, which provides for the implementation by the customs authorities of the search and search activities. To date, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a number of legislative acts that give the customs authorities of Ukraine the rights that are provided for law enforcement agencies, namely: the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the use of the necessary operational investigation measures to identify the signs of crime and the persons who committed it and the Ukrainian Act of 23 December 1993 on the State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities, in which the customs authorities are referred to the law enforcement authorities. The proposed bill is the next logical step in increasing the fight against smuggling. In accordance with the bill, the customs authorities will have reason to obtain information about the smuggling that is being prepared or done by undetermined persons; about those who are preparing or committing the crime and who are hiding from the authorities of the investigation in connection with their smuggling. At the same time, the granting of the right to operate and search activities to the customs authorities will enable, firstly, the protection of the internal market and the domestic producer to take a number of measures to ensure that the economic interests of the State are protected. It's different. Ensure timely exchange of operational information with the customs authorities of neighbouring countries, joint operational arrangements for documenting the criminal activity of smugglers in Ukraine. Third. It is more effective to warn and demonstrate the facts of corruption and abuse among customs officials. And the last. Countering smuggling, first and foremost, of strategically important raw materials, materials, taxive goods, historical cultural values, weapons, and narcotics. Dear National Deputies! The bill was conducted by an expert at the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. All our remarks are taken into account. I would like to thank the national deputies, the heads and members of the committees who have taken an active part in its drafting, expertise and acceptance of the bill. Allowing the customs authorities the right to carry out operational and search activities will not only contribute to the effective fight against smuggling but also further increase the availability of funds to the State budget. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. National MP Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u4	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Nikolai Nikolayevich! In general, the theoretical side of your report is clear to me. I don't understand. We have, first, a Constitution that has clearly defined the functions and powers of each body that should be involved in investigations. Why do you have to do this, that's the first. If you wish to do so, please conduct an internal investigation. I think there's something to work on right now, and there's somewhere to put your hand on your department, wherever you can run it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. I'd like to stress again. In our view, the Colosseum came out. There's a Criminal Procedure Code that determined that the customs authorities in the smuggling business refer to the authorities and rely on the necessary operational and intelligence measures. This is article 101, 103. The Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by the Supreme Council. On the other hand, there is the Act on Operational Search Activities, its article 5, where the customs authorities are not subject. I mean, there's a need to bring all of this into line with the two bills and the Criminal Procedure Code and the law on intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u6	People's Deputies, the Ripper. It's a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u7	Dear Nikolai Nikolayevich, I have a question. You've already dealt with the payments completely. You're doing a fiscal function. You said you set up a smuggling unit, they've existed since this structure existed. And one more question. Please tell me in which territory you will be providing law enforcement, that is, you believe that neither the police nor the Security Service are coping with their functions, then you speak loudly about it. And if you've fully settled the payments and you're fine, then only after that can you consider your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u8	Thank you, Leonid Vasilovich, for asking. My statement said that in 1992, units were created to combat smuggling and customs violations. That's the first question. With the payments we're trying to figure out, and I want to inform you that, compared to the corresponding period last year, the State Customs Service has provided more than 1 billion $233 million in cash to the budget. And there's something to figure out. The granting of the right to operate and search by the customs authorities will be used for the purpose of further processing payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u9	National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u10	Thank you very much. Dear reporter, two weeks ago, I was addressing the reasons for the delay in the customs station in Eupatoria. These were imported into Ukraine temporarily at the time of harvesting, and then they were to leave. I started with your deputies, you were on vacation, I ended up with specific performers, and, frankly, I never understood why these combinations were not allowed in Ukraine against the rules of the current legislation. I have a question. If the law is passed, this structure will be created, first of all, to whom will it be subordinated to the Customs Service itself, what will be the subordination scheme? And the second. What means can you use to prevent the bureaucracy that is now in your service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u11	Thank you. By the bins, come on, I promise I'll take care of it and I'll inform you in writing or I'll come to you. The second question. I said that our structure has anti-smuggling units, which are in the structure of the central apparatus, regional customs and customs. And within this number, we're going to be able to create, well, a healthy working atmosphere. We have someone to study, someone to look up to: the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service. I was saying, once again, we don't take any authority from anyone. The Security Service has this right, the internal affairs authorities have the right, the State Tax Service in our country has it, the border guards have it. I don't think the state will lose anything if, within the limits of numbers, within budget allocations, they're given the right to operational and search activities and they're going to be doing two units, as I said, of anti-trafficking units and their own security units.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u12	Osika's National Deputy, People's Rule MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear Mikolayovich, please tell me two questions. The first question is: Is there a similar practice in other countries, such as Europe and the United States? What Is in Russia? And the second question. Do you believe that the special nature of customs crimes, especially smuggling, needs a special and specialized R & D?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u14	Thank you. Well, first question. Once again, in the countries of Europe and the former Soviet Union, the right to search and search is not vested in Kazakhstan, Albania and Ukraine. [[my administration]] The second question. Indeed, the very magnitude of smuggling, the increasing trend towards illegal imports of goods, require that we take adequate measures. I would like to answer such an example. Yes, we take steps to detect external misconduct, we break criminal cases, then these criminal cases are carried out within a given time of knowledge. These cases are then investigated, investigated. But what's the picture coming out of it? In 2000, 462 criminal cases were filed, 35 were tried by the courts; 412 cases were dismissed in 2001; 33 were dealt with by the courts; 227 cases were filed in six months this year; 8 were dealt with by the courts. We may be reprimanded that we may be somewhat knowledgeable. So I'm going back to the Criminal Procedure Code. He didn't give us the right to know and he didn't give us the right to carry out the search and search. So probably the reason that the courts don't deal with these cases is that we are inequitable in the absence of the right to engage in search-and-research activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. A replica of Leonidas Vasilovich Derkach, please. As long as he goes to the rostrum, Alexander Markovich Bandurka, for his report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u16	First, I asked the rapporteur four questions. The answer was one question. I don't understand why they're getting away from the basics. As a result, the Customs Service is not in a position to deal with it today. And if he does, it'll be very expensive for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u17	Thank you. I will ask the Head of the Derby to give in writing all the answers to Leonid Vasilovich's questions. Please, Alexander Markovich Bandurka will speak with a co-relationship. In five minutes, Alexander Markovich. As agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u18	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's Operational Search Act was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 18, 1992. He defined operational search activities, contained a comprehensive list of departments that were given the right to engage in operational search activities, defined their rights and responsibilities, terms of operations and investigations, and in fact that's a good law. Because in ten years of his existence, only one change was made. You heard Mr. Kalenski's report today. The bill proposes to amend the articles of the law: articles 3, 5, 8, 9, 9.1, which would give the right to carry out operational search activities for trafficking units, to violate customs rules, to their own safety, to Ukraine’s State Customs Service. That is, three planes, three directions of the Customs Committee's work to combat smuggling, breach of customs rules and the security of the State Customs Service. There are both positives and negatives that we discussed at the committee meeting on law enforcement when this paper was discussed in detail. Of course, allowing units to combat smuggling, breach of customs rules, personal security of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, the right to conduct operational search activities could increase the fight against smuggling, violation of customs rules and corruption. So, let's say, the argument is in favour of this bill, and he was a member of a committee that was taken to the fore when most of the committee voted in favour of this bill. At the same time, I can't help but tell you about some negatives that might arise, and we have to take that into account if we're adopting this law. Allowing units to combat the smuggling of the Ukrainian State Customs Service the right to conduct operational search activities is in contravention of a legal provision that this is the course of the work of the relevant Ukrainian Security Services, which now have such competence. Then it is necessary to separate in the bill the mandate of the Security Service in the anti-trafficking unit of the Ukrainian customs service, otherwise these contradictions will certainly not be of benefit. The bill does not contain provisions that deal with separation in other matters, such as the succession of smuggling cases between the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Customs Service. The confusion in this case is inevitable. I'd like to point out that it's no longer a door for smuggling units to deal with, but it's no longer a door, so I'm sorry for the terminology, because the breach of customs rules is an administrative responsibility, and administrative responsibility in the search-and-research business is not guaranteed, it's either a service investigation, or it's a matter of administrative responsibility. Therefore, we are told that granting units to combat customs violations of the State Customs Service's right to conduct operational search activities is not justified. A violation of customs rules, I said, is an administrative responsibility. And the question of internal security. It's more of an internal investigation than a search-and-research function. The customs office of duty is represented by a customs officer and a foreign service. Well, who's going to recruit who or who's going to suspect when there's only two services that have to work side-by-side. I'm saying once again that the committee supported the bill by a majority of votes, which I'm going to report to you about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to ask your co-conspirator to sign up. Please show the list of names on the board. National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, Ukrainian Agrarians faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Markovich, the Ukrainian Agrarians will think before voting for this bill, because we have a lot of claims to this service on imports of sugar into Ukraine, on imports of flour, and especially recently on animal production. The latest information from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, which is now available at the relevant service desks, indicates that an experiment has been carried out. On the Polish border, on the Polish side, how many cars have been taken. With meat products, and how many have been registered on the Ukrainian side. The difference is tens of times. That's why we support the questions Leonid Vasilovich Derkac asked, we trust in this relationship with other law enforcement agencies, other services before we trust this service. The Ukrainian Agrarians are going to take this bill very seriously before they support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u21	I get it. It's like a discussion. I'd just like to say that, really, the question of operational-searching is quite acute, because it's a tool of penetration, well, holy saints into the personal and private life of a person, into his dwelling, in his correspondence, in his thoughts, in his relationship, in his relationship. When I was in the ministry, there were two services dealing with the matter: the BHSS Service and the Criminal Investigation Service. Today, they're in the Ministry of Internal Affairs 9 of these services. The KGB, which was then called, had one service. There are six units in the Security Service today. There are still border operational units, intelligence, counterintelligence authorities, then the State Security Authority, which also has the right to operate and search functions, tax administration. I understand your concern, but I'm doing the committee's will to report the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u22	National deputy of Bichkov, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and of the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u23	Dear Alexander Markovich, National Deputy of Bitchkov, Hard Ukraine Party. I have such a question to you as to the author of the textbook, even from the agency development and as to the expert, the lawyer himself. You said in your speech that the committee's thinking was divided. What personal impression do you have from this bill and your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u24	Thank you for asking. Thank you for knowing my manual, it's called "Operational Search Activity." It was a matter of my life once. Ladies and gentlemen, my personal opinion is that it is impossible to extend the powers of the organs that have or claim to be operational-searchers. The state will soon no longer recruit anyone. Because we're gradually turning into a police state, expanding the functions of a whole range of devices. I'm not going back to this bill. Well, can I speak to you honestly? I'm not going back to this bill, it makes sense, because the Customs Service really needs legal support. In the Customs Code we didn't see it coming. The duties of the knowledge body are placed on the customs office. The Criminal Procedure Code requires them to take operational measures. They've been deprived of this tool. Then you either need to extend authority through the Customs Code, or give authority to the Security Service that is accompanying you. We have to step up the fight against smuggling, first of all, I think you all agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u25	People's Deputy Budzigan, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u26	Please pass the word to Sinchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u27	People's MP Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u28	Dear Alexander Markovich! Unlike the head of customs, you have a wealth of experience in the area of intelligence. Please tell me, from your experience, has this increase in the number of units and organizations involved in operational and search activities been affected in general by the detection of crimes or detection? That's the first question. And the second. Let's imagine that we've given the customs authorities the opportunity to do R & D. Who will lead the intelligence to a logical conclusion? I mean, it takes an investigator to confirm this information, legalize it, and bring it to trial, and so forth. There's no such thing as customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u29	Thank you. There's a saying like this: " The fisherman's fish can see from afar." You've also been doing agency work, and you know very well that blurry, expansion of functions and powers leads to a condition where "seven baby-sitters have no eyes." That's how it happened, we're going to talk, and we're going to talk about operational-search issues. Today, we have 16 structural units that have the right to search and search in those services that are already defined by law. Has this made it easier for us to fight crime? Of course not. Because there's the blurry, the deprofile, the leveling and the degradation of this direction of work. It's made of a professional, it's made of deviants. I'm asked a question, on the one hand, as a national deputy, and I'm saying to the committee that we need to support the Customs Committee in its efforts to step up the fight against smuggling. On the other hand, as a specialist. Well, a search engine who's been doing operational-searching activities all his life. I have a second position here. I don't think we can simplify these methods of work. Where do you get specialists? Agency work is a very thin job. There is a need for asses to study the matter. Where are they taking them? Again, I come in some kind of contradiction with myself. I'm reporting a bill that needs unquestionably support. In which case it needs to be completed in the second reading, it's already your business. Of course, we should leave only the antismuggling units.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u30	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the discussion. The committee invites us to discuss the matter within five minutes. Recorded for the performance of Ivanov, the faction of "the only Ukraine." Please. Just please, very briefly, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u33	Deputies! When we have a question in the State about allowing someone to engage in a search and search, we always have a contradictory situation, because the situation has really come to pass, as Alexander Markovich said, that someone will soon recruit someone. Everyone's busy. But let's look at this from the other side. Myth Service is in operation today. Can we today give typical examples of detention being brought to court? When a verdict is made, is there a sentence where people are sentenced to various terms of imprisonment? There are almost no such sentences. Why? Because that's what's going to happen. Myth service, working in its corridor, usually detains either a driver who eventually begins to say that he has no relationship, that the cargo has been loaded and is not his fault. And, of course, such cases do not come to trial. There are no results from such activities. Another matter is that the Customs Service will have the right to engage in operational and search activities. Let's say drugs will be imported, because we assume that only anti-trafficking units, not all of them, are allowed, but only the specific unit. If we take the same drugs back to the border, what will be the final result? Zero again, practice has shown. But if we prove it, track down who the customers are, where the distribution is, and this can only be done through operational and search activities. Then, eventually, the result will be. I'll give you a second example. The detention materials have been transferred to the BMS. The investigation started working. It works on the naked fact, on the bare materials that are available but need to be worked out, you need to expand the witness base, you need to find other evidence. Who's gonna do that if the customs office is cut off? Therefore, I ask you to think carefully about this question. And if we want Customs to have a final outcome, we need to introduce and give them the right to engage in operational and search activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u34	Onopenko, from the Legal Committee. From the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think we need to support this bill in the first reading. I think he's got some flaws just like you, but I think we can supplement it, fix it and make it better on the second reading. Indeed, only the customs authorities of Ukraine do not have the right to operational and search activities among the SND countries. I don't think that's normal, and we need to fix this. Even because these problems are being taken care of there by the operational units of the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Department. But still, I think this is the creation of appropriate units that will allow for a more effective display of wrongdoing. It is not a secret that customs officials today come into contact with Shadowhunters, commit crimes, and have no effective fight. Instead, it is suggested that we create appropriate units that will deal with and be responsible for the situation in this area. In addition, I think that world practice shows that drug smuggling cannot be detected unless it is possible to carry out a search and search. It's the experts who understand that the whole world is after it. I think we also need to eliminate the contradictions in our current legislation. If article 103 of the current Code of Criminal Procedure allows customs authorities to conduct prompt searches on smuggling issues, then the law itself does not provide for operational investigation, and there is such a contradiction between valid legislation and, of course, that customs authorities cannot carry out effective work. So I think that this bill needs to be supported in the first reading. We will then work on various committees, including the Committee on Legal Policy, and make it more perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u36	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u37	[[Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine"]] . Dear National Deputies! Does what is done at the customs office satisfy everyone today? The questions are absolutely up to everyone. He's absolutely not happy! What is proposed today? Is it something to change, or are we just going to preserve the situation, and we're still going to be dissatisfied with everything that's going on? We know that there were now cars in a number of Western areas. We know what's going on in the east, the Lugansk region is open, the Harkowe area is open, Odessa is in many cases "crowding." Today the question is whether something needs to be changed or not? The president changed the Chief of Customs. Is something going to change? He looks and says: "People good, I'm short on one-- I don't have the right to use it today in the fight against smuggling. Because, in accordance with article 101, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Procedure Code, customs authorities are recognized by the authorities of knowledge." And here I'm asking you, does anyone have a monopoly on, should they have a monopoly on operational search activities? The Americans said, "No. There must be no monopoly!" There's information to go, that's all. And they have the organs to compete with and let them compete with each other. On this point, I think that the first-reading bill should be strongly supported, but I'm going to say which part right now. We need to rule out our own security units, because why would he do search and rescue? Your job is to protect smuggling and protect society from those who sell. Two tasks, self-security units can perform a second function without performing these functions. This will reduce the number, the number of people, and this is about completing part of the fifth article on search-and-research activities, and so we're going to go with you and we're going to go with you and we're going to go with you to the point where the Departments of the State Customs Service are carrying out customs control, where their jurisdiction is distributed. And there'll be someone to work with and there'll be a normal opportunity to open up smuggling. I'll tell you that when we adopted the Criminal Code and we were offered in 201 articles, in smuggling, to exclude criminal liability in general, it was suggested by a number of clans to open our borders. What is being proposed today is the way to improve the situation. And this is the path I propose to support by adopting in the first reading, but by excluding the self-security units, that is, by half just meeting the requirements that are being met today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time has come to consider this matter. We'll make a decision about him on Thursday. You are considering a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the penitentiary system. Reporter is deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an offer: 20 minutes away. Is there any objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u39	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the transfer of relevant rights and the functions of Ukrainian security insulators to the Ukrainian criminal and enforcement agencies of the Ukrainian State Department for the enforcement of penalties. The adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, the improvement of legislation in various spheres of social relations, including the regulation of law enforcement, give rise to an objective need for a new regulation of the organization of the pension system of Ukraine. The right of the Ukrainian Security Service to have investigative detention facilities for persons taken into custody and detained by them is enshrined in article 25, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in 1992. Since then, there have been significant changes in both the social and political life of the state and the legal system, the Constitution of Ukraine has been adopted, Ukraine has joined the Council of Europe, cooperation with the European Union is rapidly developing, the process of harmonising Ukraine's legislation to the world's democratic standards. It is entirely objective that appropriate legislative changes be made to determine the future fate of the Ukrainian security authorities ’ investigative units. The implementation of the changes proposed by the project will be in line with international standards on the conditions of detention for persons in detention in detention centres. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to bring our legislation into line with the requirements of the Constitution, including article 92, paragraph 14, of the Constitution. And in recent times, that's exactly the kind of body that's been created with special status, which is the State Department of Execution. Thus, the changes made to the Ukrainian Law on Pretrial Prisons indicate that the institutions for the maintenance of persons for whom a precautionary measure of selection is in place are the insulators, as well as the prisons of the State Department for the execution of sentences, which also carry out the functions of insulators. The articles of the law on the right of the Ukrainian Security Service to have investigative isolates are also excluded. The amendments proposed in the bill will not require any changes in the state budget of Ukraine. The practical implementation of this law will enable Ukraine to raise its respect for human rights and freedoms and bring Ukraine's current legislation closer to European Union standards. Actually, it's about change, as I said, literally in a few articles. Part one of the first article 4 of the Pre-Prison Act, which provides for the custody of persons for whom a precautionary measure of taking custody is the investigation of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Department's investigators, is the deletion of the words: "investigators of the Ukrainian Security Service". Article 25 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act refers to the exclusion of paragraph 5, which states that the Ukrainian Security Service has investigative isolations. A few more technical remarks to the text. Where the text says, "Security Service of Ukraine," "Security Service of Ukraine," and so on, it's also about removal. Or this: In the first part of article 13, it must be added that detainees and those who are under guard are entitled to address their appeals to the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine. We know that we have such an institution, and there is no such institution in this law. Or, for example, a democratic norm. Article 9 states that if a woman is in custody, she may be with her child by the age of 2. There's a proposal to increase this number to 3x. Or something like that. There is a limit to the acceptance of consignments of up to eight kilograms. There's an offer to take it away, because it's been stolen into the old code of law from the appropriate postal rules. In these times, the postal rules have changed: there were 10 kilograms, now there are 30. So it's purely technical. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. If it's your will, because it's a matter of a technical nature that we can work with the department, I'd like to vote on Thursday and as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u40	Any questions, Your Honor? I'm asking you to sign up. Let's take a look at the board. People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u41	I'd like to ask, first of all, the proportion of the premises of the investigative units who will be in their next residence, will they go to the department, or will they have security personnel? Knowing that the accommodations are not bad, I remember this very well as your ex - prisoner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u42	Thank you Andry Vasilovich for asking. I have to say, in Ukraine, we have only four insulators now, and we have one insulator here in Kiev. There's another insulator that's been closed for more than three years, it's in Lviv. All these insulators, except insulators in Lviv, are in the Ukrainian Security Service complex. Because of this, it's just physically impossible to remove them from there because they're inside. As for the Lviv insulator, it's outside this complex and you can consider transferring it to relevant departments or departments or to someone else who's being set up in Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u43	National Deputy Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u44	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, 79th district, faction of SDPU. Volodymyr Ilchi, I have a brief question. I'd like to understand for myself, to understand the logic or the necessity of making these changes, and also with a terminovo from the government. Well, what we're going to pass on to special institutions is understandable. Please state the right to receive a package twice a month without limitation on its weight. Well, a kilo, a ton, two. What's that for? And secondly, what's the detailed procedure for filing complaints, applications and letters to the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights? We have the Law, which is called "The Address of Citizens." What is this detail about? What happened?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u45	Thank you for your attention. We're just trying to get rid of this detail, because the Law on Pre-Prison, by then, was saying, "The Post Office sent shipments only up to eight kilograms of weight." And certainly in those general laws, I completely agree with you, I shouldn't go into detail. That's a question, because there's a lot of questions: what's the product and how many calories and so on. You don't have to do that in law. This question will be in the location of the insulator investigators. And by this time, the post office had doubled this weight, the 10th was, now the 30th. That's why we're getting out of here, giving up, as it should be, the position. It's not about calories, it's not about products. It's just that according to the mail rules you can send up to 30 kilograms now, they're going to increase, so it's going to be more. And it's going to be appropriate. Come in person and. I.D.'s on the inside. These questions will be settled. As for the words "addressed to the authorized one," I fully agree with you, but in the old edition, where it was copied to whom the administration should send letters, and there is no such thing. There's also an offer to add a "authorized" so there's no variation in the administration of the cities of disqualification.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u46	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u47	Dear Volodymyr Illihu! It is known that there are serious problems of imprisonment and prior imprisonment in Ukraine. Do you think the adoption of this law will solve all problems of prior imprisonment or not, or should we do something else and adopt other laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u48	Thank you for asking. When the Ukrainian Security Service was established in 1992, the insulators involved two structures: the Ministry of Internal Affairs and then the KGB. With the decision to create the Department of Penalties in 1992, it was voted in this room: to transfer all the investigative isolations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to this department. And now we actually have five insulators in the Security Service in Ukraine. That's because it's only 350 maintenance sites and only 4 areas. We have come to the conclusion that we must do as we do in Europe as we do in Europe. The main mass of isolates has already been transferred, so there's no point in keeping these four isolates. To be honest, we do it every year. The Commission comes to us from the Legal Committee of the Council of Europe, and they pay attention to it twice a year on our papers. That's what's very important to us, to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u49	People's Deputy Badness, faction. A group called Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u50	People's MP Ploha, Group "Democratic Initiatives". In considering the law enforcement committee, a proposal was made to increase the age of the child from 3 to 6 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u51	As I pointed out, after consulting with medicine and studying the practice, they concluded that by the age of six, children are not held for up to six years. As a result, it has been increased to three years. It will, but there are medical, psychological, and such other aspects. As a result, it is proposed for up to three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u52	Thank you. Time's up, thank you. A member of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Activities, Loch Igor Ivanovich, has the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u53	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Law Enforcement Reviewed the Draft Law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” To amend certain laws of Ukraine relating to the prison system. Given that the bill aims to introduce Ukrainian legislation on the functioning of the prison system in the International Standard, thus creating conditions for improving respect for human rights and freedoms in Ukraine, the Committee unanimously approved the bill and recommends that it be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! Any questions? None. Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? You don't? Then the question is concluded. With respect to the vote, we'll be on Thursday. You are considering a draft decision on the situation in the village of Senkkov Kupian district of Kharkiv district. Under the reduced procedure, as we agreed. Please sign up for who, who, against who, for that matter. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. Is she going to perform? None. Head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, do you need to speak? Please sign up. National MP Bandurka, please. Next is the national deputy Semenyuk. National Deputy Bandurka, faction of the People's Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u55	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, surely the bill that is proposed should be adopted, and it also has a political character for Ukraine, which we bring into one structure all places of willlessness. This is what the Council of Europe, the European Council, requires of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u56	Alexander Markovich, we've moved on to the question of the draft Decision on the situation in the village of Shadowkow Kupyan district of Kharkiv district.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u57	I'm sorry. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the first question, I'm only going to say one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u58	Alexander Markovich, I'm sorry, we've finished this and moved on to the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u59	I'm talking the other way. There's a criminal case, there's an arrest, there's a prosecution. What role will be played by the commission, which will be adopted or decided when the prosecution’s investigation is at stake? Should we not intervene in matters that are resolved in a procedural manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u60	Thank you. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, you're for, I understand, because you've been introducing this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that today many colleagues are trying to say that this is a political issue. Working in Parliament and working on the agrarian committee, I remember very well the words of Vasil Vasilovich Shepa, who worked for us on the agrarian committee of the Movement faction. When the Earth Code was adopted, he made it clear that when the first blood was shed, we would have a feeling of how the Earth Code worked. The wise words of Vasil Vasilovich spoke. Unfortunately, however, the way the Earth Code was adopted, without detailed expert evaluation, without public discussion, as envisaged today and the Environment Act, the Nadra Law, as provided for today and article 13 of the Constitution, was adopted in a number. In accordance with the Constitution, article 85, paragraph 3, and according to the Supreme Council’s Rules, article 8, paragraph 1.1, the Supreme Council is competent to monitor the enforcement of laws that are adopted and to adapt them if necessary. Some today want to say that this is a political issue. But what I'm trying to say is that we're legislators have to do it first in case they see that a piece of legislation works as a negative, we're able to make mistakes. And that's why, when the trouble occurred in the village of Shadow Coupian district of Kharkiv, and the media handed it over as the village of Lasivka, we filed this draft decision with colleague Sibk Vitali Jakovitch. First of all, why. The Supreme Council is in control. Second, he has the ability to comply with existing legislation if he needs to. Third. When the law, the Codex of the earth, was passed in this room, we talked about adopting it in an articleistic manner so that we could eventually find out many appropriate circumstances. President Viktor Volodymyrovich, who left our administration today, well, he left us to secure Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's work, and I think he'll be able to do it, so I'm asking him to remove his name from the draft decree. And Catherine Timofievna, as chief organizer, would go and see how the Earth Codex works. Because the first blood, it doesn't just spill. And we need to think about how when we go to places to see how the law works. I'm not stressing it by accident. Because it's not just the people in the village who are opposed to each other, it's not just the border, it's not just the border between the city, it's between the village and the other village, it's today that the Earth Code is the opposite of the rural population. So we'd better go down, look at the first of those negative sprouts than then we'd have a much worse situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u62	Thank you. We've got one-in-a-row, one-in-arms. Please, National Deputy Chubarov, are you in favour or against? Please. We agreed, dear fellows, it's a reduced procedure, we agreed that we'd go one-on-one, one-on-one. Just a minute. Valentina Petrovna is late, and we have arranged in such a way that we are in favour, Bandurko v. Now one to go, and the other to go. And let's determine by a vote on Thursday. If there is an insistence, please sign up for the question. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u63	Is there any insistence on what I can do, dear colleagues? Please point it on the board. Melniczuk National Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u64	Dear Valentina Petrovna, what do you think should be the reaction to the events in Kharkiv's Parliament, and should the parliamentary commission go there in order to resolve themselves? Because that's the situation in Kharkish and other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u65	V.P. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, for example, was in trouble at the mine today. Parliament's reaction was instantaneous, and Parliament must always respond with a healthy response to help or other actions. That calamity that occurred today in Kupyansk is a disaster that can be answered later by an analogy. So go to the site, not in the investigation plan or in the plan there, but in the study plan of how the earthly codex works today, which has led to similar cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u66	Thank you. National MP Mokchan, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u67	Dear Valentina Petrovna, I share with you my views on adopting the procedure and ignoring all the suggestions that were constructive in adopting the Earth Code. I personally addressed the head of the committee, Catherine Timothy, and the deputy head of the Supreme Council so that they would not hurry. Unfortunately, we have laid down such a slow operation of a bomb or a mine that today we are talking about only one fact, and in fact we have a lot of precedents concerning the land issue. And actually, today, you said right, the division is happening everywhere. Isn't it appropriate for us not to leave, but to take a look around and read and avoid possible mass precedents that are possible today and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. That would be most appropriate, in my opinion, considering, therefore, these stories that took place in Kharkishte, because they are both in Kiev, and in Poltavian, and in Church, and in Hersonian, when a person was alienated, in fact, especially where the trade already took place, and they were buying 50-40 dollars acres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u68	First of all, I would like to say that the first point of our ruling is that it is stated that it is for the Office of the Attorney General to have the village of Kupyan Region cleared and similar cases in Ukraine. I remember the President’s decree to reform the agrarian sector in 1999 after the reelection, and he then gave additional instructions to the Attorney General’s Office to prepare analytical help. I know exactly what kind of help there was, probably more terrifying than we have today, but unfortunately, neither to Parliament nor to our committee, nobody got that information, because at the time, even the media didn't show any similar experiences. So I wrote in the draft decrees that we would eventually see that analytical information from the Attorney General's Office about similar cases so that they wouldn't be allowed to happen again. But when, you know, you walk on the ground -- you feel like there's trouble today with the adoption of that Earth code -- how to share the right way, how to work so as not to let that happen. We, regional deputies, follow the information below. That's why I'm saying we need to go down there and see how the Earth Code works.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u69	Thank you. National Deputy Vaschuk, faction of Ukrainian Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to know two things. The earth’s decay in Ukraine took place, not under the Earth Code, but in the absence of the Earth Codex. So for a few years, the land was scattered according to the President's decree, and it was he who started the agrarian reform. And the lack of a legislative base, the legal basis, has led not to one ten, but to thousands of colosses. I worked with them on the committee, receiving at least 50 - 100 letters each week. And for 20 years walking the earth and to this day living in a village, walking the earth, I know clearly what the villagers are doing and how they live. So it's not the Earth Code we need to review, but it's our own fault that the courts acted in accordance with the old Earth Code when the land was scattered under the President's decree. And the land was being bought because there was no legal basis. And the norm that you and I have voted here in the Earth Code, which is now prohibited from buying land for agricultural purposes. We put an end to that law and to the Code of Earth. For this reason, we need to do one thing for today: bring the system of despoiling all over the farms into line with the Codex Earth. And the second. Not only is the earth being scattered, but property is being reaped. And there's a lot of colossals. That is why it also requires law. When the law is in place, there will be no legal basis for such cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u71	So is this a speech or a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u72	And I have one last question. Tell me, so far, all the investigators are working: the prosecutor's office is working and the prosecutor's office is working. We're already giving them an assignment. Wouldn't it be more meaningful for us today to work towards simply developing the Property Spoiling Act and actually to verify the implementation and operation of the Earth Code? Because it doesn't work around here. How he would not have acted in such a way would not have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u73	First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to answer. The land code, adopted on May 13, 1992, was also valid before the decrees were issued. And today it's not necessary to say that there was no legal basis. You, speaking of Catherine Timofievna, speak of the fact that, indeed, the land reform began by an order that went out and today gave birth to all these colossals. And they could have been avoided by making changes to the Codex earth. That's the first one. With regard to earth’s decay. There's the Law on Collective Farming, which no one has changed today. And the breeding of property is also done by means of a corresponding document. And to say that there is no legal basis. Yes. They just don't want to do it properly, and they want to do everything cool to make it happen. So let's go see what we don't have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u74	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Is there a need for us to take the stand for and against it? None. Please, National Deputy Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, we have two projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u76	Two projects, one of which was now presented to us by Valentina Petrovna What pleases me personally is that there is a point of order in both projects for the Attorney General's Office. I would like to say this without going into a discussion, that what happened was not just the problem of the Earth code itself, there were a lot of factors, including how the prosecutor's office was doing when the land reform was taking place. By the way, when we met with the Attorney General's candidate, Mr. Piscoon acknowledged that he did not expect so many questions about land reform when he was going through factions. There are many problems associated with local authority. I want to give you just one example where the illegal actions of the local government, let's say, were so distributed that people don't know what that's going to lead to right now. I've got this, let's say, in the village of Amur, when the head of the village council illegally distributed over 600 hectares of government acts to which people already have state acts, although he has in the village, there are over 700 people who haven't received nearly two hectares. You know, in Crimea, if, God forbid, something like this starts out, it can also have an interethnic character, because people are left without land. And coming from someone who later arrived or who had already entered the colporteurship. So I'm asking you to support the kind of projects, maybe the one that Valentina Petrovna now offered, and then when we vote in general, we'll put some changes in the names there. I'm asking you to support me. I want us to listen to the Attorney General's Office, and I want the Attorney General's Office to work on land reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u77	Thank you. Who else insists on the performance? Please, National Deputy Pravdenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I think it's not a coincidence that we're talking about mining blood underground today and blood on earth. Both are evidences of the way we build Ukraine. I think we need to create a working group that has analyzed all our land legislation and made the necessary changes. In fact, whatever we're talking about here, and I know examples when a 7-acre pie of land goes for a bag of sugar, goes for nothing, and so on. If this lasts, this first blood, unfortunately, will not be the last. And it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that must draw the necessary conclusions. So I support the draft decree that Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u79	Nobody insists anymore? No, it's not. Dear colleagues! Question completed. The decision will take place on Thursday. You are being reviewed by the draft law on amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the subject. Draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Act on the Paying of Work for the Minimum Time Wage. Reporter: Deputy State Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Soldatenko Mikola Alexiyovich. I would like to inform you that the minister who was to speak is now on a mission from the well-known to you again for the same reasons in Donetsk. How long do you need? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Act on Pay for Work is proposed. The substance of the changes relates to the introduction in Ukraine of a new social standard governed by the state of minimum hourly wages. The development of the labour market and the increase in the number of people working under the custom contract system, such as part-time work, seasonal work, intermittent work and others, require the establishment of such a public guarantee to pay for the work that would guarantee the payment of work, regardless of the form and system of pay, and the modes of work. The draft law provides for the definition of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act as the basic principles for setting minimum hourly wages. The minimum wage is to be set at the same time as monthly and per hour, taking into account the subsistence minimum, the overall average wage, the level of employment and other economic conditions. To set the minimum wage per hour is provided for in the same order as that provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Wages Act. That is, only through negotiations with trade unions, employers, and only then through the introduction to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. Establishing a minimum wage on a national level does not, in our opinion, reduce the scope of existing workers' rights. To this end, the bill is proposed to complement existing legislation with a new standard that strengthens the social protection of workers. First of all, article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work is supplemented by a new norm which provides for a ban on bringing workers to the hourly system who have entered into a contract of employment with normal working time, but because of the unfavourable financial and economic conditions of the enterprise, they work part-time. Article 85 of the Code of Laws on Ukraine’s work proposes to be supplemented by a rule on non-increasing labour standards in view of the increase in monthly and hourly minimum wage. With a view to providing additional guarantees to employees working under the hourly pay system, article 106 of the Labour Code is proposed to supplement the payment standard as a overtime of all hours worked by the employee over the statutory length of working hours per week when the employee is not set to work daily. This addition to existing legislation by the stated standard will contribute to the social protection of those working under a system of custom employment contracts. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the committee of profile, the Committee of Social Policy and the Committee of Labor, does not support this bill, so it is difficult for me to expect the support of the Chamber. But I would like to assess this bill not only in terms of possible abuse by employers in terms of reducing working time, but also in terms of social protection for those workers who actually work on different working hours, it's also secondary employment, it's also the work of pensioners, it's also the work of students, as well as those who work in construction, agriculture and others. Please support the bill in the first reading, and then we can work together to prevent abuse or any other trouble. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Gmir's National Deputy, Communist faction. Oh, no? The People's Deputy of Vernigor then, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u82	Dear Mikolo Alexiyovich, ask you a question. You know, there are countries where the hourly salary is equal to the monthly salary, or more, we have? You should be a guarantor of the state, not afraid that employers will be there behind your back to cut or release or not pay. We return to the barrage of work, either for a slice of bread or for a lot or just for food. Tell me, are we ready to let people, people, employers, deal with people like this today?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u83	I'd say so, Your Honor Leonid Mikhailovich. You know what we're looking at at at the same time, and you're in the Supreme Council right now, there's a law amending the same code of labor laws that we've banned from giving administrative leave without saving wages. Now, after the introduction of this law, you know, statistics confirm that the number of people on forced vacations has nearly halved. In addition, you know that the number of part - time work has also decreased considerably. So from the point of view of how we will support this bill, we will guarantee that the employer will fulfill these obligations so that he does not misuse working time with a reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u84	National MP Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u85	This is the case when I have to give Stoyan my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u86	People's deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u87	Thank you very much for this incident. Dear Mikolo Alexiyovich, I want you to answer two questions. First. How many people are working on an hourly wage today? It exists today, we know, and you called the categories of workers that work. But how many? One second. You propose to set an hourly minimum wage as a state guarantee. What kind of government guarantee is the minimum wage per hour? Name the amount. What it's going to be, let's say, in summary terms, or as a percentage of the minimum of living, or as a percentage of living. So the amount of hourly pay the government is offering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u88	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know what order of negotiations and proposals are made to the minimum wage. It will take place in the same order as the monthly wage. So as we come out of the living minimum, as we come out of the average wage and get out of other economic conditions, we're going to make calculations with you, Reverend Alexander Mikolaiovich, and we're going to make these proposals every year, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, and at the same time, at the same time as the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u89	National Deputy Voysh, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u90	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u91	National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u92	Thank you. Mikola Alexiyovich, I had two questions. First of all, I thought you were going to give an exhaustive answer to my colleague Stoyan. You know, it's going to depend on the size of the weather minimum wage state, and how will the employer behave? But I have a second question. Think about the epoch of ours here in this room, trying to ensure that debt is repaid by law, article 15 is about pay, about pay priorities, and then tax payments? Please tell me, will article 15 be extended to a minimum of an hourly wage? First taxes and then 90 copies an hour? Can we finally let the employer pay the hourly wage and then pay the tax?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u93	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, article 15 is the technology of payment, not the size or minimum wage, or the average or monthly wage. That's different things. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u94	Thank you. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u95	Thank you. That's my question. As the main argument behind these changes, the President refers to his letter of 2000. But there was a year 2001 that had already crossed out the letter of 2000, and there is a letter of 2002-20011. And what's important is that we change the course of reform because they didn't go there. And so I'm surprised why does the President have so many secondary things in the bill that he doesn't make any decisions about, that we don't have anything to do, that we don't have anything to do or that we don't have anything to do with it? So tell me, how many jobs are there, and what will this weather thing do compared to what it is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u96	I don't think that's right, but I'd like to give you figures like this for the hourly wage. So here I have the average wage dynamics for the month worked, and where the dynamics of the hourly wages are in the hours worked. So this trend is just negative. If I have only two digits, if the average monthly salary in 2000 rose by 29 percent compared to last year, it would be 28 hours. In 2001, these numbers are 35 percent and 30 percent. And in 5 months of this year, 23 percent and 14. So something's going on a little bit, maybe it's going to be this intensity of both the workers and the workers, and the hourly wage doesn't go up without guarantees of an hourly wage. So I think there's a problem here, and it needs to be solved. In my opinion, the introduction of the minimum wage of the hourly wage will affect this trend as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u97	Thank you. Your time is up, Mikolo Alexiyovich. The co-report will be delivered by the head of the Committee on Social Policy and by Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u98	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the draft law being passed by the government is designed to amend the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work in such a way as to establish a minimum hourly wage as a guarantee for employees working in the weather system. So the language, in principle it goes, it's a positive question, today there are many categories of people who work on time, they've been named, and we don't know how many copies this person gets today - 10, 20, 30 or a bracelet? Therefore, the attempt to establish some minimum State guarantees below which should not be paid on an hourly basis is positive. But what's negative is what our committee's doing. The first thing is negative. If we move to hourly pay, we're very afraid, and this is the position of the unions and the committee of ours, which is now in this financial instability, with enterprises not working or working part-time, the absolute majority of the people working will be transferred to hourly pay. People will say when they get to work: "We take you with an hourly wage, you work three or four hours, we pay you for three or four hours, and then go any way you want." Let me remind you, we have an important guarantee today -- it's a monthly wage with minimum wage. If a business manager is unable to organize a job, if a person comes in and does not work from the fault of an entrepreneur, he must receive a guaranteed minimum wage of 165 dollars. If we move to the weather, we don't know what's going to happen. Next thing you know, I want to get my attention. It is suggested that, in determining the minimum guarantee, the minimum wage on an hourly basis should be taken into account, taking into account the minimum cost of living. This is a gross violation of article 17 of the Law on State Standards and Guarantees, which provides that the minimum wage should be at the minimum of living. Now, if the government says today that the minimum wage is going to be an hourly minimum, you can have a conversation. And the next. All social parameters in accordance with the general agreement signed between the government, the UCP and the trade unions are in line with the trade unions. Regrettably, the government has not given consideration to trade unions and to the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Therefore, the professional side and its authority to speak does not support this bill at all. But that's the main thing, and that's the conclusion of the committee. Today, the Committee believes that until the economy of Ukraine is stabilized and the situation in the labour market, as well as the minimum wage at the minimum wage level, it is unacceptable to introduce a new social standard, such as a minimum hourly wage. It's going to make the social protection of the working person much worse. You know how much you owe your salary. The committee therefore proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan? None. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Yes, they are. National Deputy Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction, will be followed by the Pavlovsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the very idea of implementation, the introduction of a guaranteed hourly minimum wage, deserves support. This is a step in the right direction. The minimum hourly wage standard is the most important social standard in many countries around the world. It is based on social policy, budgeting, budget expenditure. All of this is done in the direction of a guaranteed hourly wage. In the United States, the minimum hourly wage is $5,25. If your employer hired you and didn't provide you with a job, you'll still get $25 an hour each. I think that in Ukraine, of course, at this level, we can't make an hourly wage, but we have to determine the amount of it according to our specific conditions. That's why I may sound dissonance, but I don't think we should reject this bill. Of course, it cannot be accepted in the way it is proposed. I'm absolutely in agreement with Deputy Stoyan here. What's the plus and minus here? I told you about the pluss. The main plus is that it's a government guarantee. The state guarantees and motivates the entrepreneur and can decide the matter through the court if he does not pay. True, we do not have the judicial system we need. But this should not necessarily mean transferring people to an hourly workday. This is the hourly minimum wage for eight hours of work, at least. If we have an eight-hour workday, maybe. So I think these fears have a reason, given the situation that we have, because there are potential abuses. Objections to the proposed government’s way of setting a minimum hourly wage. They offer this through negotiation. I was giving you an example. In the United States, the state set up without negotiation, negotiations were held, but every entrepreneur knows that $5 is 25 cents. Let's say we have 5 dollars, but the state has to provide this guarantee. If we go through negotiations with entrepreneurs, we'll lose the case. So we have to support the idea, not reject the bill. You can accept the first reading and the second reading to make changes. Or I propose to vote in favour of transferring the bill to read again. But it's very important that we don't lose this idea because it's a very important social guarantee, a very important social standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u101	Thank you. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u102	Thank you. Pavlovski, Julia Timoshenko faction, "The Fatherland" party. Dear colleagues! I want us to think strategically and determine whether this bill is in time or not. Now, I'm going to get an analogy, and my colleague, Cherniak, is going to say no. The idea is correct very often, but not at the right time. Imagine your grandson coming up to you and saying, Grandpa, I'm 5 years old, I want to get married," are you going to take this offer? You'll reject it. And that's the right idea. So the thing is, we have 40 percent of the unemployed in Ukraine today, 82 percent outside of poverty. Do you understand what this is? Moreover, we live for the time being. This is what the President says in his letter that we need to change the course of reforms, and we live under the rules of the wild market. For the new MPs, I'm going to say that in McConnell and Brue's textbook, where all students learn, the American definition is "what free market is." It's a system of competition, of self-interest, but a system that has no morals, no conscience. And the regulated market already has morals and consciences and human rights. All right. Coti, we don't have him. So we should go out to whom today is convenient. And it turns out that the government and the President are comfortable with this bill. Why? Because we hear every day when there are claims on the salary "no money, no debt", and we have to pay them back. And when we put in such a system, the government will be able not to collect debts and not pay the minimum wage that is in the month, and so the government will benefit from it, and people will not. I was in the United States, too, and I saw the poor living there. There's a minimum wage of $3,000. So with that kind of salary you can actually enter on time to get more, less than 3,000 don't get paid. And if we don't even have 348 dollars to pay, what are we talking about? [[140 we set the minimum wage]] So the main task today is to create jobs and raise wages at least a few times, and then polish the system. Because today it's going to be a reason for more people to be out of poverty and not get a minimum wage. Therefore, by coming out of parity, supporting the last message, supporting the President's 2002-200 message, where he calls for scientific reflection on reforms and change because they didn't move there. [[Because it was three years ago, and it was crossed out in 2001.]] So you have to move in the right direction and think. This is how the Minister of Agriculture spoke today, not how to adapt to the market, but how to adapt the market for prosperity and growth, and to ensure the security of our state, that's what's important. Small accents — not about the market, but about people. Thank you for your attention, and this bill needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. We'll make a decision on it on Thursday. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on liability and monitoring of social insurance contributions]] Reporter is Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Herich Olena Vasilovna. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u104	Honourable National Deputys, Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in connection with the adoption of laws on three types of compulsory state social insurance against an accident at work, occupational illness, unemployment, temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial to take effect last year, are proposed to amend 14 laws, 2 codes and 1st decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to bring the earlier laws into force in accordance with the laws adopted last year. In particular, the amendments to the Labour Code provide for the obligation to compensate victims for material damage to the production of a social insurance fund against accidents. Norms regarding the self - management of trade unions are deleted by social insurance. It is consistent with the laws adopted that determine the right of employed workers to material security and social services. Ukraine’s separate types of compulsory state social insurance provide for the administrative responsibility of the insurer for defaulting or late payment of insurance premiums. Therefore, the government proposes to supplement the Code of Administrative Offences with Articles 165, indicating 4 and 244, marking 10, regarding the size of penalties and the authorities that may impose penalties. With regard to the changes to the law on the status and social status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, we bring into line with the standard for determining the extent of assistance to families. The extent of the aid will now depend, not on continuous internships, but on the length of the insurance system, which greatly improves the size of the aid and increases it. In accordance with the laws adopted by the State - bound social insurance policy, all employers who employ employment must pay the social insurance of employed workers regardless of their form of ownership and management. Indemnity means the deprivation of the right of employed workers to social services. And in order to avoid this and to ensure the implementation of article 46 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the right of citizens to social insurance, we propose to amend the Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, on Agriculture, on Production Distribution Agreements. In particular, members of agriculture, starting at 16 years of age, have the right to take part in the insurance of individual species on voluntary grounds. [[farmer]] With regard to the amendment of the laws on the system of taxation, on the special economic zone of Slavotic, on the special economic zone of Maples, on the special regime of investment activities in the areas of priority development in the Luhansk region, it is proposed that the standards of these laws be brought into line with the three social insurance laws adopted. With regard to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs, we propose that the funds of compulsory public social insurance should be made available to you, once again, that the state where we contribute our contributions and contributions to the employers be released from the civil service. With regard to the Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Youth, it is proposed that the funds that come from sanctions be directed to provide employers with grants to create jobs for young people, to retrain them and to train them. Dear National Deputies! The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The bill is supported and recommended by the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also supports the bill and has no substantive observations to it. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill and to bring the previously adopted laws of the Supreme Council into line with those adopted recently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Is it? Please sign in. On the board, please. National deputy of Matvienkov. It's the only Ukrainian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u106	Dear Elena Vasilievna, I have two questions for you. Question one. Your personal opinion. With the adoption of the Act on Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents, what trends have followed, has the situation changed? Because I'm going to say from the point of view of those who work at the company, those who pay regress steadily. These are the regressors we talked about taking care of them, believe me, they both came to us today and they go to solve the additional problems that arose in the fund. And question two. You say there is a need for responsibility for non-payment of contributions. That's understandable. That's true. And we've talked about this a lot. Would you please give me the figure of today's understatement in the mandatory social insurance fund and tell me what these are for businesses that don't pay today? I mean, we're this law, which just confirms what we talked about a year ago. That those who paid regress will pay, but only in increased numbers. And those who didn't pay their workers regress just now don't pay that insolence. And what measures will we take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u107	Thank you for asking. And I want to inform the people's deputies that, with the adoption of the law on compulsory insurance in connection with industrial accidents, we were able to provide for the first time in the lifetime of an independent Ukraine in the past year, and this year, the payment of current regressions is 100%. We don't have a penny of debt. As for previous payments over the past years, I want to give you the sum, as of January 1, 2001, we had a debt that was prior to the entry into force of the law, 634 million. Today it's 388 million, which means it's almost halved. But I completely agree with you that we have not solved the problem of mining areas entirely. The shahtar regions, as they had a debt of 328 million in recent years, have only increased it today. Thus, the current payments are provided by 100%. As for the individual elements, and in my opinion, most importantly, with regard to the individual elements, we are working with the Committee of the Supreme Council today on Social Policy and Labour, and we ask you, honourable national MPs, to join and improve legislation in separate positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u108	National MP of Kosovo, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u109	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Helen Vasilovna, among the bills to which appropriate changes in compulsory social insurance should be made, you have also named the law such as the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. I have a bearing on this law because I was one of its authors. What's this all about? The point is that those who are employed in religious organizations must enter into an appropriate employment relationship with those who hire them for this, that is, with religious organizations, and those who have to pay special contributions for them. But we have experience that these kinds of laws usually don't work. There is a need for a universal law that requires everyone, regardless of the form and nature of social employment, to be secure. Will what you are talking about have an effect, or should we seek more universal paths? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u110	Thank you for asking. The honourable people's deputies, indeed, by making changes to this law, we have come out of the Constitution's rules that Ukrainian citizens have equal rights regardless of the form of ownership they apply to their work. And our ministry, and our Committee on Social Policy and the work of the Supreme Council, comes from the fact that in our country we have to protect and give social guarantees to all employees, and not only in our state, but also to go beyond the state, where our fellow countrymen are involved. So I think that with the adoption of this law and the three laws that the national MPs passed earlier, we will be able to comply with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u111	Thank you, too. National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. And time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u112	Dear Helen Vasilovna, the bill is designed to provide social security. So, of course, I have a positive attitude toward him. But I would like you to dispel my doubts. I have doubts as to whether there will be a significant increase in the liability for social insurance contributions under this bill in terms of huge debts, in terms of huge receivables. How can we resolve these prides or cut up the proudest debt peer in terms of social security contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u113	Thank you for asking. The question is extremely relevant, and I share your concern that just by imposing fines we will not significantly improve the situation in the social sphere. And you probably know that the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced to the Supreme Council a bill that foresees a reduction in tax pressure on the manufacturer. And so with the adoption of a package of laws, we can improve the situation. The bill only implements the provisions of the previously adopted Supreme Council Act concerning the imposition of sanctions. We started with a minimum. We've imposed maximum sanctions of not more than 300 bracelets. But we have to get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u114	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna. Your time is up. For the purpose of this report, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Social Policy and Work considered at its meeting on 3 July this year the draft of this law, which was submitted by the President and which was defined as urgent. The bill provides, as you know, for 17 legislative acts in Ukraine to comply with the laws in force on compulsory public social insurance. The change in terms of terminology is essentially, I emphasize, mostly. But what is important to us is what Helen Vasilovna has just said when responsibility for the timely and compulsory congregation is increased, not taxes, but the congregation, and social insurance, too, on the issue of temporary disability. Why? Today, 20 percent of the funds or the payroll fund don't come to our fund, which means that we're 20 percent less healthy, 20 less healthy, and so on. That is why we are taking urgent steps to do so. But we do think that making changes, and more precisely taxing, let's say, from the money spent on Christmas celebrations for children, we find it inappropriate and unacceptable, because this would lead to violations of articles 48 and 49 of the Act "On mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial." Since these articles provide for partial financing of extra - school work at the expense of these social insurance costs with temporary loss of employment. Note that such a law is unfortunately adopted each year. This reminds me that our paradises invite or require the help of our disabled people each year to provide information that his leg has not grown, that we will not have Christmas every year, that there will be no gifts, and so on. It can be accepted once and for all. And let this law work. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is proposing to adopt legislation on a basis too. And taking into account the expertise presented and expressed by this expert office, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council to accept the project as a basis, the more it will be accepted as a basis, and then we will work on it as you know. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Any questions? None. There is one question. National Deputy Olijnik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u117	125th constituency, "Our Ukraine" faction of the People's Movement, Oilynik Petr Mihajlovich. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich! Indeed, the fund of April 1, last year, pays off the current regressive compensation to miners that have been cut off by millions. And this, indeed, has to be thanked for the third democratic call of the Supreme Council and the government. But we can talk a lot today about filling the basket of the budget, the Social Insurance Fund, we can still not keep the situation in hand. I don't know if you've been doing a whole analysis of the state of Ukraine, and I've done a 125-counter district analysis. After the regression payments began to be actually paid, the case was put on the conveyor, and eight times the number of regressors increased if the quarter to the quarter, the month to the month. There is virtually no real control. Today, they're not 50 years old, not 45 years old, but today they're 35 years old, 32 years old. After two to three years, they worked in a mine. If we keep doing this, we're going to destroy this fund, and there's not enough money in the state. So you have to think about what to do here, because corruption in this matter has become unprecedented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u118	The question is interesting. First. It's a little bit of a question of today's order of the day, and I'm not going to look at the fund's mechanism of action from a temporary, more faithful accident. We have almost all four foundations that work, and today they have a solidarity. This year, the Social Insurance Fund paid off for all three funds for temporary loss of employment. Today, if you start a full or full mechanism to work the fund you're talking about, they'll have enough for regression, and there'll be no corruption. I repeat, if it isn't the regressions of the past or 10 years that rise today on disability. Well, I told you why they're enlarged. Because everyone heard that you could get a lot of money and remember who you were when you got a disability.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u119	National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u120	Dear Leonid Mikhailovich! Penalties need to be entered, no questions asked. In order to increase the liability for social security contributions, sanctions are required. And that's the poof of the bill. And there are mechanisms that are appropriate to do so. But the question is, how are we supposed to be in those cases if the sanctions don't work? There will be many such cases. So some will pay again and others won't. What can be done about this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u121	You know, I'd like to tell you that the most painful thing is that we don't have responsibility for other laws that don't work is the law on these funds. For example, you might think that 30 percent of the wages they get in kind would have to stand in Kiev with flour and oil to pay for it. How can we find that we do not have an hourly wage that we have just considered? Again, it is not the ends of the bread to pay, but the money. Everything goes so far as to enforce all other laws, then sanctions should not be made more harsh. We have priority payments, you know. And these funds, the collection for this fund is going to be the primary payment. But for that and on the basis of that, to consult with you, let's make a prison for everyone who doesn't pay. Oh, no? Let's do it for the others. Let's get 10 untaxed or taxed wages out there. Let's get some advice. We'll work on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u122	Thank you. Please, the national deputy of Yavorowski. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski. Leonide Mikhailovich is a respected, indeed, purely technological law, exacerbating the discipline of money transfer to foundations, and 17 laws apply to each other. Everything really can be supported, but please tell me, why is this package going through, and this is laid down in the law, and these funds are being released from duty? Why us? We're still trying to have some kind of discipline and equality for everyone. It's like we're just being simple: oh, let's take away the myth. What do you think? I'm definitely against it and even against the law if we don't change that position. About the benefits in payment of duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u124	Vladimir Alexanderovich, these are non-profit funds, these are foundations. There are no commercial or other structures under these funds. And we don't have it here. It's a general government social insurance, it's not the Chernobyl funds that create the rest, we don't have any other structures. It's just a payday, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign in if there is. In five minutes for the announcement. I, my esteemed colleagues, announce an extension of the session for 15 minutes. Please sign up. Please point out who signed up for the talk. No one's signed up. Dear colleagues, no one has entered the Secretariat. The national deputy of Matvienkov insists on the presentation, please. Dear colleagues, I suggested you either sign up at the Secretariat or log in through the system, but you don't sign up. It's all working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u126	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District. I apologize to my colleagues, not because I want to speak, I just want to come back by the time we considered this law on compulsory accident insurance, and remind myself of the situation that I repeatedly spoke to from the rostrum, and everyone will remember how we fought for this bill at the time. I think now we're back to what we were talking about. We are saying that we have solved the problem of regressors, and this year we have paid 100 per cent of the amount of regression for the first time. Let us answer the question: From whom? Whoever didn't pay for that money to the regression fund, whoever didn't pay a penny of the regression, doesn't pay a penny to this day. And those who, so to speak, held and took their own regressors increased the amount. Today, we're 3 and a half percent of the salary fund of metals, chemists, machine builders, those who breathe, those who pay their wages, today they've increased their allowance by 2-3 times. If we had previously paid for Ilic's 2 and a half million, today we are paying about 7 to 8 million and, of course, we have paid off, 100 per cent have paid off. But what did we face today? Regressions are rising, and of course they're going to grow, that's the second question, now I'm going to tell you why, and the pay isn't increasing. Of course we'll come. We are now responsible for the non-payment. The next step will begin to increase the percentages of contributions. Let's start, let's start, remember me, you said no to me that time. We will begin to increase the percentages of regression, and again we will place this on those who are hauling the train today. Now question two. You're saying the regressors are starting to grow. My dears, in geometric progress, you will increase for one simple reason: you have untied the hands of the landlords because today you have deliberately placed them in such conditions. They do not intend to be responsible for safety conditions. He came to the restaurant for the menu, paid for everything once a year, harshly speaking, according to the regressions on his salary and how many regressors he doesn't care about, whether they're 10, or 300, or if it's 800, it's not exactly that number. That's the second question that really concerns you. And question three. We've created again, we've said then, no, no, it'll be controlled, we've created a machine that's starting to create arbitraryly on the ground today. I can't do that. They've restricted the upper limit. Regressors are back on business. The apparatus shall take such a decision, the apparatus shall take such a decision. We haven't solved the problem, believe me, we've driven her into a "deaf corner" that requires a deep resolution. So I'm talking to you again, so let's seriously sit down and find a way out of this problem, because the problem is just stuck in the corner, and we're going to come back to it in half a year. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u127	Thank you. Who insists on the performance? None. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. On Thursday, we'll decide what to do about it. We have 20 minutes left. I'm introducing a draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act on Standards. Reporters - Head of the State Committee on Standardization, Metrology and Certification of Ukraine - Kaban Petro Stepanovich. I'd like you to briefly introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u128	Okay. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The need to adopt a bill amending the law on the quality and safety of food and food commodities is due to two factors. Just a year ago, the Supreme Council adopted a bill on standardization, accreditation of conformity assessment bodies and confirmation of compliance, according to which new principles of state policy are established in the field of technical regulation. They meet the requirements of the market economy and are geared towards improving the quality and competitiveness of domestic production. Now, according to the Final Provisions of the Laws, other previously adopted laws, such as the law on the quality and safety of food and food, must be brought into line. The Government's action programme also takes steps to bring legislation, national legislation and international European legislation closer to the President's decree on additional measures to accelerate Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. This also requires changes to the relevant law. What changes are being made to the law in force? I'm just going to stop at the main points. First, the law defines the terms "new production", "false" and "insecure" and "unquality products". This is article 1. Second, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to determine the list of required documents when implementing food products on a commercial network. Thirdly, there are additional requirements for labelling food products, such as the use of genetically modified raw materials, which must necessarily be marked at the bottom of the package. Fourthly, changes are being made to the system of national accounting of food products and related materials. The government register is offered only for specialized food supplements. Other food products that do not refer to the special category will be accompanied by a register of findings from the state health expert of Ukraine’s chief public health doctor. Fifthly, in connection with the creation of a national accreditation body, it has been operational since 1 July of this year, the State Standard has delegated accreditation functions to it, and that is why this body should be accredited by certification authorities, testing laboratories and other bodies. Therefore, it is also necessary to make appropriate changes to this law. Next, if this law is adopted, manufacturers and suppliers will be obliged to take steps to implement international food security systems for food commodities, which will provide for a potential safety analysis and critical control points for production in the factories where such products are produced. This is a new direction that is being developed in all countries of Europe and started in the United States. Finally, the title of article 22 is clarified and supplemented by the following content: "Food products or food raw materials that are not installed are disposed of or destroyed in accordance with the order established by legislation." I'd like to ask you, national deputies, to consider and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u129	Thank you. Question, please sign up. National MP Martinyuk, while the recording goes, please, the Communist faction. Let's take a look at the board. Please, Adam Ivanovich. National MP Martinyuk, Communist faction, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u130	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Peter Stepanovich, would you please tell me first which of the bills you reported? That's why I'm asking, and I'm asking the honourable deputies to pay attention. We're now listening to exactly 2 equal bills on the same issue. But one of the bills was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the other bill was proposed by the President. And they're both urgent, they're both prime. As far as I know, it is proposed to support the government bill. But judging by the logic of the question, the government was before the Presidential Bill. So, excuse me, what are the paradoxes and coalitions that are created in the Cabinet of Ministers, where two such important institutions write a bill of three sentences? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u131	Thank you for asking. I reported on the draft Law amending the relevant law passed by the President of Ukraine. Earlier last year, there was also a project to amend the law on another issue. But the previous session did not approve of that law. So he was repeatedly handed over by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the law passed by the President was passed by three committees, including a committee of profiles, and it was this very law that I reported. There's another co-reporter on the same issue of other changes, and they're really minor changes. I think it will be possible for us to vote on the law in the first reading, to unite and pass as one law amending the law. It was a re-entry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u132	Thank you. I think we're going to be looking at that bill and taking it as a basis for the committee that got the support of the committees. But what you've been paying attention to has also been surprising and surprising. We're going to make obvious proposals to the President and to the Cabinet of Ministers. If he can't figure out which bill to submit for consideration. Please, National Deputy Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u133	Dear Peter Stepanovich, of course, this bill needs to be adopted, because we have so many surrogates, counterfeits, people are poisoning, there is no control over the quality of food, there are no standards. If they are, they will not be fulfilled. But still, do you think this law will provide a solution to the problem, is it declarant, declaration of good intentions, and the mechanisms and sanctions won't work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u134	I think that the problem of quality and security, as well as the problem of counterfeiting, is a complex problem. And the adoption of this law will contribute to their resolution. Although, of course, not all aspects of this context will be settled. We need to make decisions and make changes to other laws, not just laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u135	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kirilenko, faction of Ukrainian Agrarians. Dear reporter! The question is specific. The law is certainly necessary. Ukraine’s farmers will support it, for no one else like us is most likely to suffer from it. the world trade organization, to the European Union and to the European Union. Harmonization of legislation with European legislation is an absolutely necessary thing. But in agriculture, the processing sector needs 2,000 standards to be reviewed, because we're one of the few countries in the territory of the SND that works according to the standards of the Soviet Union, Russia doesn't work anymore. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy is offering 5 million dollars last year to begin the development of standards. Zero. What will be the fate of this law when the 2003 budget is back to zero? What is the prospect of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u137	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. You've really touched the pain point. In our 2002 budget, we have foreseen implementation funds to harmonize national standards with international ones. This is the sum of 4.5 million dollars. Unfortunately, funding is not enough and is not enough, so to speak, but we are still working on standard harmonization. So for today, I'm going to tell you what we've introduced as international 843 standards. The work goes on, there's a harmonization program. Of course, we have to work with you on the budget committee to make funding much better in 2003 and to fill it with ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u138	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Time Thank you, Peter Stepanovich, for your time. Mikola Eframovich Polishchuk, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u139	The Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood reviewed the draft laws on the quality and safety of food and food products submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine. Both bills are designed to further improve legislation on the quality and safety of food and food and complement each other. I will not stop at a detailed analysis of some of the bill's provisions, but I want to stop at the conclusion of the committee. As a result of the consideration of the bill, members of the committee concluded that its adoption would contribute to the introduction of legislation on the quality and safety of food and food raw materials, strengthening the appropriate quality and safety guarantees of these products, which are one of the most important determinants of public health and the further harmonization of the national legislative base in this area with the legal standards of the Council of Europe and the European Union. The findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority suggest that the bills be adopted in the first reading and further reconciled. Taking into account what has been said, as well as the fact that both bills provide for amendments to the same Ukrainian law, we invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept them in the first reading. Please support the committee's draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Any questions to Mikol Efremovich? None. Do we need to talk about this? He insists on the word Red. Please, Eugene Alfredovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! I don't often go to this rostrum and I don't want to say anything, but I'm asking you to pay attention. My colleague, Deputy Kirilenko, made a point. There are many areas where the introduction of European standards really doesn't allow us to move forward. Yet, not only did the State Standard, which has been best supported by other organizations, look very closely at the food industry. You know why? There's money in circulation, there's no barters, there's no warrants. That's why I have to. We're fighting endlessly with the Crucifixion that the food industry wants to take away. Now in the field of what is the only industry that, almost the only one that can be proud of Ukraine, 95 percent of the products that are domestically produced want to do things that can't yet be done. I'll just give you an example. Both in Europe and in the United States and in Canada, there is no mandatory certification of systems for the quality of public food services. I'm just going to read you what you're going to do, and I'm going to ask you to look closely at these articles of the law. As stated in article 1 of the Food Quality and Safety Act: “Certification is a procedure in which a State-authorized body documents that a food or food product meets the requirements set. Therefore, the use of the term "certification" or the very procedure for certification of quality systems or security systems is not acceptable at all. The law will be in conflict with one another. The terms "quality system and security system" are not defined. What's that? It's a field of work in places, as they say. If it's a lab, it's operational control records, so they're double-checked and accredited by the same authorities of the State. So the enterprise has to: first, check the equipment -- pay the money, second, credit the lab -- pay the money, test the production, including the lab -- pay the money, fourth, certify the lab -- pay the money back. In fact, one authority issues four documents and four large sums. I'm telling you something else, there's a huge problem in the same state standard. Each of the major manufacturers known in Ukraine today suffers from another, from counterfeiting, which is both on the skin and on the production of the Prime Minister or others. But nobody does that, because the counterfeiting of this number of controlling organizations can be in the same way -- a corruption conspiracy. So I ask you to take a close look at this law and put it in the only field where the President's reforms have actually gone and where market growth and competition really go, to be tested again. The market determines everything and everyone knows who has the quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes to complete our work. What will be the comments, suggestions? Just a minute. National MP Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The next question in the agenda will require exactly five minutes of deliberation, so I suggest that we exhaust this question, and then we can close today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, we have not yet completed this question. Is there anyone else who insists on doing this? National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I just have to speak. I really don't want to do this, but I'm making a mistake. In Ukraine there is a very acute problem of food quality and safety. Every year, it is poisoned, sick, and dying, and several dozen die, thousands of people being poisoned with inefficient food. And I'd like to deny to my colleague at the faction, Deputy Redhead, he actually caused my speech, it's not about the industry, it's not about putting obstacles on the development path, it's about putting obstacles on the way to selling non-quality food, forgeries first of all, surrogates, and sometimes even the sector itself, non-quality products are being released. That's what this is about. Now with regard to the second remark and objection, there is no such thing in other countries. In the United States, I studied the quality of food in a special way. I've been in the federal structure that does this. I was on my way. U.S.A. And I've found that there's basically a system that doesn't have a quality product in the market. If a firm sets him up, it's the last time she put him up. The main problem with this law is the issue of standards, as mentioned by Deputy Kirilenko and the issue of sanctions. And if we fill the law with this real content, standard and sanctions and specific mechanisms, it will work. In the meantime, this law is declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-09-m1.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. We'll make a decision on it on Thursday. Dear colleagues! It was a proposal from the National MP Zvaric, it's a document number 1191. Maybe a few minutes on that. Do you mind? Dear National Deputies! Before closing the session, I'd like to make two announcements. First. The people’s deputies, Gladys and Shpas, urge the public to declare that in the 1177 vote their cards were used by the faction neighbors. I'm asking you to use the cards only for who they belong to. Dear national MPs, another announcement. Distressed by article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Satus of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine District Court, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Plutinski Volodymyrovich Antonovich from the membership of the Ukrainian parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" and his membership in the Ukrainian Agrarians Group. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered according to the schedule of meetings.
