ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, please log in. Please register. There are 364 national deputies registered in the hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced in public. We continue our consideration of issues related to Tuesday’s schedule of meetings. I am announcing for consideration a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on judicial expertise. I want to remind you, according to the agreed proposals, we're considering these issues under a reduced procedure. Please, Minister of Justice of Ukraine Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. The procedure is, if you don't mind: the reporter, up to 7 minutes, the co-reporter, up to 7 minutes, two minutes, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This draft law has been brought before you for a number of reasons. The first is the need to bring the text of the law to the Constitution of Ukraine, because the law was passed in 1924, and after the adoption of the Constitution there was a need to bring individual provisions into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. The second reason is that several laws have been passed during this time, such as the law on licensing certain types of business. And it is essential that the provisions of these laws are also corresponded to and applied to the same understandable apparatus. And the last reason is that during the implementation of this law, all eight years have come up with specific issues that need clarification in order for forensic expertise to be carried out effectively and at the right level. The refinements introduced in this law touch on a number of directions. The first is that it relates to forensic expertise itself and to the selection of a variety such as advisory opinions given by forensic experts or special institutions at the request of legal or natural persons in a non-judicial manner. Since this was not previously foreseen, it is the addition that is made to this law. In principle, it is also important to organise the conduct of judicial expertise by experts who do not work in specialised state institutions. To this end, the project sets out a list of requirements to be met by professionals who do not work in government specialized institutions and systematically perform forensic expertise on a professional basis. To ensure that these requirements are met, a new, clearer and more detailed edition of the articles regulates the procedure for conducting and assigning the qualifications of a judicial expert. In general, the proposed additions and clarifications will help us to improve the quality of the expert conclusions provided by the judicial experts. Another direction is to organize a judicial expertise that is conducted by either specialized agencies or experts who do not work in specialized institutions. To this end, several articles are envisaged for special clarifications, starting with what I have already said on professional qualifications for special criteria for obtaining the right of testimony to carry out this expertise and the order in which it is carried out. The following direction, which has been corrected, relates to financial security for ship’s expert activities. The project proposes that all the expertise related to the criminal and administrative process be carried out exclusively at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Today other sources of funding are allowed under the law, and in this case other sources of funding are also allowed. In order to provide expertise that gives high quality and is absolutely independent of the parties to the trial, we believe that this is absolutely necessary and, at least, I would like to inform you that the State Budget Act of the current year and the project of the following year provides for a separate article on expenditure to be carried out by such experts. There are also sufficiently reliable sources of funding that will be used to provide out-of-procedural advice provided by judicial experts. It is important to improve the quality of forensics and to ensure that their assessments are sufficiently objective and high-quality that a single system of state certification and the introduction of a national register of judicial experts be introduced. These changes, which are proposed to date, take into account the practice of functioning specialized judicial institutions for judicial experts and the functioning of the Institute of Independent Forensic Experts for six years now. In the process of preparing for consideration of this project in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the consideration that took place in the units of the Supreme Council showed that after the adoption of this law in the first reading there is a possibility of further clarifying certain provisions that could benefit from legislative regulation of the process of judicial expertise, there is an even higher quality than the project that is now proposed to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the Minister-Rapporteur? If you'd like to sign up. Five minutes to ask. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u4	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Minister! Please tell me that you are not only required within this law to reduce the deadlines for expert review, because due to non-execution of expertise today we have extended terms for several months of detention in pretrial detention, we today have a fibula in the courts, and today we have very poor working conditions for forensic experts, especially forensic experts, there are the worst working conditions. If you've been to these experiments, and I suggest you stay now, look at the conditions in which people work. What is now being done by the Ministry of Justice, the executive power, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u5	Unfortunately, I can't talk about forensics right now, because this is a function of the Ministry of Health, and it actually provides for this law to carry out this kind of expertise. B The Justice Departments are focused on the scientific and research institutes of forensic experts who are carrying out a very different plan of expertise. And with regard to the deadlines for preparing expert conclusions, we had no complaints filed today. So I don't really know what cases you're talking about where the trial was delayed because the trial period was delayed. The law, as you have rightly observed, does not really apply to the substance of the question you have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u6	People's Deputy School, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u7	National Deputy School, Yulia Timoshenko Faction, UNA UNSO Dear Mr. Minister! I'd like to go over the case with the forensic experts. Especially on the 9th of March. There was pressure, enough pressure by the Ukrainian Security Service on the experts, and they admitted two victims, they found traumas of medium severity, two fractures being treated. A fracture in the fingers that was treated for more than 21 days in stationary treatment. Later, when the pressure of the investigation ceased to exist and the same expert was tried, after checking the victims both, he found no trace of the fracture. As a doctor, I can tell you, from my first medical education, that it's impossible to hide the fact of the fracture and somehow simulate it. Do you understand that this law protects a forensic expert from the culpability of an investigation or not, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u8	As for forensics, once again, I'm not a doctor, and I have no relation to forensics. With regard to the protection of experts, the law currently in force, which is proposed for change, already has protection for every expert. Now, the refinements of the individual notions of definitions have usually been aimed at maximizing the quality and independence of the expertise given either by decision of the judge or by order of the investigator. And what you're saying finally confirms that there is a processual possibility of getting independent expert conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u9	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. National Deputy Lechchenko, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u10	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, there were two cars in Chernigov. The Kyiv Institute of your subordination gives one conclusion, Kharkivsky gives another. The man was convicted. He's in prison, he means he's paying the money. Complained to Minust. We've assigned a commission. Nor did the commission find anyone who was right or wrong. So what I'm going to ask you is will this change to the law of expertise affect the quality of the findings of these institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u11	These are, in fact, targeted clarifications that are now being proposed to be made into a valid law, according to which judicial expertise is being carried out. And in specific cases, the conclusions that are made by experts, well here I can't answer you, because in each particular case, the responsibility of the expert and the minister has no right to intervene and say that this expertise is good or bad. All we can do is re-enact, if necessary, another expertise and nothing else. Because ultimately, we want an expert to be independent of administrative influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u12	Thank you, no further questions. The report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s Subcommittee, Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on a bill that, in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Policy, makes it possible to make a substantial improvement in the work of the bodies governed by the bill in the second reading. And the key is, in fact, the bill that answers the question for the first time, how both state and non-state experts will coexist, how these experts will be trained, certified, licensed. In the view of the Committee on Legal Policy, the comments that the Scientific and Expert Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has prepared before the bill that was passed prior to the convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are directly needed to add a number of comments that, in our view, may be taken into account in furthering the second reading, which are made directly by the Committee. Yes, in the view of the committee, it is necessary to clearly divide the professional level and training of professionals who will conduct direct expert evaluations in both state and non-state institutions. Regrettably, the text of the bill, which is presented, in the whole series of articles goes to, in fact, similar parameters for the preparation of experts' data, similar requirements for their preparation, but unfortunately, there is no clear distribution regarding the preparation of these specialists. The second fundamental point is that the bill foresees for the first time, perhaps among the legislative acts previously introduced and existing today, a sufficiently clear list of specialized institutions that have the right to perform exclusively through state specialized institutions, namely, according to this list, the conduct of criminal, forensic, forensic and forensic experts. Moreover, the list of these experts is directly approved according to a project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, the bill deals with a number of issues related to the financing of the research, including the financing of both government and funding, which will be made available to the subject in cases of clear cases, a clear list of cases identified by the project. This will allow for the separation of both government funding and funding through commercial enterprises, institutions, or organizations that address such matters. The next fundamental point is a direct list of services that are proposed in this bill to be secured by state and non-state institutions. In our view, this list of services will need to be more clearly defined in the second reading, especially with regard to article 10 and the previous 9 articles, a clear sphere of distribution of powers both for state institutions to conduct this expertise and for non-state experts who have the right to participate in such expertise. And at the last minute, to keep your attention, it's a matter of expert certification. Regrettably, article 16 refers only to public experts, although the bill itself is foreseen in further articles to conduct direct and non-state institutions to participate in the conduct of expert studies. That is why the committee must take this into account when working on the second reading, and in general defining this bill, the committee concluded: recommending that the bill should be adopted as a basis and further developed, taking into account both the comments of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the observations of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The only brief observation that relates directly to the draft law in the framework of international agreements and in the framework of the agreements in force in Ukraine. In our view, this section of the bill is sufficiently clear and allows for further consideration of these issues to always refer to relevant articles of the bill in order to avoid ambiguous interpretations of those or other decisions of international acts that exist and come into force legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u14	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Yeah, we need pros and cons. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, you're both in favor and against, probably because you're the only one here. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u15	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", not criminal Ukraine, "Solidarity", party of protectors of the country. I'm just saying, "not criminal." Dear National MPs, the proposed draft law is the third project that went into the Supreme Council's consideration of the third call, the amended bill, but the bill that needs to be adopted in the first reading, but I certainly support the decision of the committee that Sergey Sobolev has just referred to as a major elaboration. In particular, I welcome the fact that a register of certified forensic experts has been made available and that all experts will be included in this register, that the law provides for clear requirements for experts. I'm very sorry that the Minister of Justice doesn't know how many cases are being dragged into court today and will be dragged into the previous investigation because our expert institutions can't digest and have no money to pay. I am very sorry that this is happening today in the state, and that depends on people’s rights and freedoms. I'd like to ask those who are considering such issues as today's Terrorism Act, the fight against terrorism, whether this law is being considered today, to involve the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights Nina Karpachov. Then we'd hear a clear answer here, and how many people are waiting for an expert today. Now regarding article 15 of the draft law. It allows ambiguous interpretation of the conduct of judicial expertise in criminal and administrative matters by state specialized scientific and research institutions and expert services, based on the funds allocated by these experts to the State Budget. What, then, can we do? If article 57 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 75 and the Code of Criminal Procedure states that an expert may be appointed by any person who has the necessary knowledge to conclude that an expert is the person who possesses scientific, technical or other special knowledge, which, by order of the investigators or the judge, is entrusted with the task of carrying out an expert opinion and conclusion. It should only be warned of criminal responsibility. That's why I think this law needs to be worked out, but in the process of second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u16	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Forensics has been completed, because I don't see any more people who want to speak. They didn't. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Economic and Procedural Procedure. The rapporteur is deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich. I'm also offering us up to five minutes, and then two in, two in, and we're going to talk about that. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended primarily to ensure that the appeals and cassation of the decisions of the local court of agriculture are required. The absence of such a sequence in the Ukrainian Code of Procedure is contrary to the requirements of article 129, paragraph 8, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that one of the basic principles of judiciality is to provide an appeal and a case-by-case appeal to the court, except in cases established by law. The code for the interested party in the case provides for the procedural possibility of immediately violating the review of the first-instance court's decision in a case-by-case manner in accordance with article 107 of the 108th Code. I mean, by avoiding the review of these decisions in an appeal facility, such a procedural possibility occurs in the interested party in the event of an unintentional failure to file an appeal and, as set out in article 93 of the Code, and the failure to file an application for renewal of this term. This period coincides with the time limit for obtaining the legal force of the decision of the court of first instance. [[Article 85 - Codex]] Therefore, the procedure set out in article 93, part two, of the Code for the restoration of the time limit for the filing of an appeal is transformed into a kind of procedural institution that has no real meaning for application, since, both in appeals and in appeals institutions, the decision of the local court of commerce may be overturned or altered in cases of infringement or misuse of the rules of material or procedural law. That is, it is suggested in the Code of Conduct that article 44 should be completed with a dot 1, where an appeal and a cassation of decisions must be followed. Part two of article 124 of the Constitution establishes that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in the State. But the existing version of Part 1, article 79 of the Code, allows the Court to stop the case. What do we have in this case? The master’s court has all the legal rights under it to establish the truth of the matter. Nevertheless, he does not fulfil his constitutional obligation to resolve disputes and to establish the truth of the matter, but he waits for the truth to be established by another body that is very often not even part of the judicial system. Such a situation cannot be judged differently than a humiliation of the role of judicial authorities, but in some cases it can be a deliberate exclusion of the Master’s Court from the solution of an economic dispute. This is unacceptable, in view of the fact that it is the court itself that must quickly resolve the issue. In view of this inadequacy, the bill proposes to adjust the position of part one, article 79 of the Code in such a way that, in particular, the Court of First Instance will not stop the case if the introduction of the competent authorities is a criminal case involving an economic dispute and if the case is not brought before it. It is also unacceptable that the current legislation of Ukraine establishes a three - month period for the Lord’s Court of Justice, article 118 of the Code. In particular, by means of implementing letters over the course of three years. Therefore, the bill proposes that, as a minimum, the term of office of the Master Court be fixed at one year in order to ensure that the rights and legitimate interests of persons are satisfied. Last but not least, the bill sets a more specific time limit for the Master Court to issue or send a summons order on a case. Today, there is an order according to which an order is issued after the judicial decision of the legal force, article 116. This term "after" is invalid and, as a minimum, for such a normative act as a code, the bill corrects this flaw and sets out the rules according to which the order is issued not after, but on the date of the decision of the legal force. The issues that are addressed by the proposed bill for today are primarily related to the provisions of article 124 and 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, which appear in the bill. In addition, the Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the bill and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Code of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u18	Thank you, Mikola Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. People's deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, the faction "Our Ukraine", the Party of Patchisnia Defenders, the MP group "Solidarity", the city hero of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u19	Thank you. "Our Non-Criminal Ukraine." Yes, dear friends, the honourable chairman! In fact, the bill that has now been reported by a member of our faction is absolutely unprogressive. And now you'll understand. He's targeting our voters, and I'm going to vote against him, and I'm going to ask you to support me in this. Article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, which are enshrined in this article in the adoption of new laws or amendments, do not allow for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. And so the bill proposes to supplement the Code with a new article 4.4.1. It stipulates that decisions by the court of the household must be made in a mandatory, stressing order to be reviewed in an appeal and cassation order. If you have 10 days now, the project is proposed to prohibit the courts of agriculture from stopping the case in case there is a criminal case in the conduct of the competent authorities. Changes will be made to the validity of the first court’s decision. Article 85 of the Code proposes to exclude part three, which stipulated that the decision of the first court would be legally enforceable 10 days after its adoption and, in some cases, 10 days after the signature of a duly formulated court decision. It is suggested that a decision, if not overturned, be legally enforceable on the day of the decision of the Court of Appeal after the case of the appellate body has been heard. Thus, if most lawyers today call the appropriate courts a stockholder’s association or a market, we will have such consequences. This will lead, if God forbid, to a significant delay in the handling of cases in the domestic courts, to a decrease in the role of local courts, because their decisions will only be made by the legal force once the appeal authority has been duly approved, after it has denied the party responsible for the economic process to comply with the local court’s decision. Is this what our electorate needs today? I don't think that's necessary. This will only lead to a greater level of Tinning and Corruption of Courts. So I object to the adoption of such a bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u20	Bondarenko Volodymir, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Kaletnik. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u21	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. It's not the first time that I've seen such a discrepancy in the positions of members of a single faction. I think it's in principle a normal process, but we'd better agree on these things, because the practice of the courts, when their process is influenced by a foreign organization, particularly the prosecutor's office, is infringing on some minor criminal case that has nothing to do with it in principle, stops the actual handling of cases in a commercial court and leads to a result that is absolutely difficult to bring to justice. But I wanted to point out that we have a lot of problems in protecting the legitimate interests of citizens today in domestic courts in general. As a result, I and a group of national deputies appealed to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the official interpretation of part one of article 4 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which is in the same sphere of regulation. What's the point? Today, stockholders in Ukraine are engaged in whole wars between control pack owners and small stockholders with 1, 2, half percent or several shares. The owners of the control pack, taking in signs from a legal person, that is, being a fully-fledged stockholder company, sell this package, resell it, and so on, not taking into account the interests of small owners. Today, we have two mutually exclusive decisions in Kiev that have been approved by the Pechersky and Starokiyev Court. These decisions indicate that a particular shareholder applies to the actions of the Specialist, who sold half of Ukraine’s assets at no cost. I believe that someday we will return to the work of this organization. Thus, in selling shares of an open stock company, the Specialist violates the rights of a citizen, but the citizen in receiving a complaint is denied by the court, since he is not a legal entity, because he is a legal person, and he is a legal person, a friend. In this case, the citizen was refused. At the same time, the Pecher Court accepted a complaint from a citizen and decided on his behalf. With two such mutually exclusive court decisions, we appealed to the Constitutional Court. I think today's improvement in the legislation on the activities of the courts requires special attention from us, so I want to complement this proposal made by Catherinechuk. And it is these very motives that have prompted us to appeal to the Constitutional Court that we will also submit to this bill. And I suggest that you support it in the first reading, work on it, and consider it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u22	National Deputy Gregory Kaletnik, European Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. European Choice Group, Illenic constituency, Kaletnik. In support of the proposed project, I would like to point out that the position of article 79 of the Code after the changes made will increase the performance of the courts. And this rule, once applied by the courts, will enable the courts to make decisions that will be made despite the efforts of the interested parties to create artificial barriers to delaying such a decision, resulting in a loss of the relevance of the case before the commercial court, the conduct of which has been stopped. Thus, the solution to the artificial delay crisis in court proceedings between economic operators will lead to a mediocre increase in payments, including the budget, as a result of the execution of such court decisions. Therefore, in the context of establishing the country's legal base and shaping the rules of law, I believe that we should be balanced in adapting all procedural legislation and, in particular, the Ukrainian Code of Lords. And given the experience of my colleague, National Deputy Catherinechuk, I believe that this bill is necessary and that it is necessary for me to accept it, at least it does not call into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the consideration of this issue, Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, is present. He's asking for a few minutes to express the government's view of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Justice has a number of important points to be made to the bill. First. We firmly oppose the imposition of a mandatory sequence of appeals and appeals proceedings in the household. Yes, you may know that the proposed method of implementing the constitutional principle of judiciality in providing a case law is enshrined in the article. The Constitution of Ukraine, and it has already been implemented in the current Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. The application of civil-procedural law rules, which will limit the possibility of a cassation of court rulings, the conditions and the mandatory appeal of a case, have already made clear the wrongness of such innovations. In addition, the way in which the constitutional principle of the possibility of a cassation of a court decision is implemented, which requires a mandatory appeal, prevents the implementation of another constitutional principle of judiciality, the principle of legality, since it is possible to leave an unfair decision in legal force on formal grounds of omission without sufficient reasons for the procedural term of its appeal, which cannot be accepted. Since the number of judicial cases in custody has been cancelled in the legal process at present, it will be virtually impossible to correct such a case. Furthermore, the proposed draft law proposes to amend article 85 of the Master’s Procedural Code, according to which the decisions of the household court can take effect only after its consideration by an appellate body, which is a manifest error, since it prevents the entry into legal force of a decision that no one is suing. The draft law is also designed to supplement the Code with a new article 111.2.1, which provides an exhaustive list of the circumstances under which the focal point should refuse to accept the application of a cassation complaint, which is decided upon by the appropriate resolution. We feel that such an addition is unnecessary, since article 111 is unnecessary. 3 Ukraine’s master’s procedural code of procedure already provides grounds for the return of a complaint of cassation or the filing of a prosecutor. The same is true of article 29 of the Code of Procedure of Ukraine, a country of agriculture. And the general rules of article 37 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act are provided. Nor can we agree with the proposed amendments to article 116 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine regarding the date of issue of the order of the master’s court. According to the proposed wording of the article, the order of the Master’s Court should be issued to the conscriptor on the day of the judicial decision of the legal force, which would literally mean duty. Such an order is only for one day, and this is certainly not a reasonable restriction of the retractor on the enforcement and enforcement of the judgment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. I am announcing for consideration the draft law on the national programme for the development of the national film industry until 2005. The reporter is the Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and Art of Ukraine, Hanna Pavlovna Čmil. Anna Pavlovna, five minutes, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration by the Ukrainian Act on the National Film Development Programme until 2005. The draft Ukrainian law has been drafted to implement the President's decree on the main directions for the development of cinema in Ukraine up to 2995 and with a view to creating the right conditions for the development of national cinemas in market conditions, restoring their role and influence in the spiritual sphere of society. Today, the film industry represents a complex system of creative production that involves production, production, and distribution of films. During the years of independence, the industry has undergone a complex phase of destruction and progressive reform through a system of legislative regulation of the relationship between film subjects and copyright, the implementation of measures aimed at supporting the national film, the regulation of public film videos, the gradual transfer to new production technologies and the demonstration of films, the return of viewers to cinemas. During this time, 250 games, artists, televisions, and videos were produced, including: Production. In the new film - show technology, 62 cinemas have been reequipped. The technical refurbishment of state cinemas, such as Alexander Long's National Film Studio, has been initiated, the establishment of service companies at Yalta Film Film Studio, the National Centre of Longzhenka. This has contributed to the creation of comfortable movie conditions, and this has had a corresponding effect on the increase in movie attendances and the increase in the gross collection of movies. At the same time, the situation has not changed dramatically. Screens of cinemas, TV channels, and video rooms are filled with foreign film products. The annual number of films produced due to permanent underfunding of the planned budget allocations does not exceed 10 percent of the need. In 2002, only 7.8 million of the planned 20 and a half million were made available for production from the State budget. A similar situation has been observed in recent years. So the proposed draft Law on the State Programme for the Development of the National Film Industry for the period up to 2005 is aimed at correcting the situation that has arisen, creating conditions for participation in non-budgetary film production, significantly increasing the number of films produced, providing comprehensive state protectionism through improvements in the regulatory and legal framework, completing the process of reforming the structure of the state administration of cinematography, improving the multichannel cinematography system, implementing regional programmes to improve the performance of cinematography, supporting the process of shaping the state infrastructure of cinematography, preparing frames and promoting international cinematographic cooperation. The strategy of the State Film Development Programme is to restore cinematography as a self-contained competitive sector of culture, to return the national film to a social form of function, to increase the role and impact of filmmaking in the spirit of society. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u28	Thank you, Hanna Pavlovna. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, will speak. Please, Les Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u29	The Supreme Council Committee on Culture and Spirituality reviewed the draft Law on the National Programme for the Development of the National Film Industry until 2005, introduced by the Cabinet, and decided to recommend the adoption of the bill as a whole. The committee determines that the approval of the state programme will contribute to the restoration of cinematography in Ukraine through technical, technological refurbishment of film studios, the modernization of cinemas, the creation of a cinematographic network. The introduction, by 2005, of stimulating forms and methods of farming, improvement of non-budgetary farming mechanisms, and the involvement of foreign investment have led to positive disruptions in the country’s cinematography. All of these measures will create the right conditions for the development of national cinemas in market conditions. The restoration of Ukrainian cinema, as an art, of the third millennium, will not only contribute to the preservation of the national identity and spiritual values of society, but will be an important factor in establishing the authority and recognition of our state. I understand, of course, the critical situation of today's cinematographer, and unfortunately, the only intervention by the Minister of Culture in this area has led to strikes in the film, and we were forced to cancel the order of the minister for the development of the film college, which was canceled by Kinakh. And I'm very sorry that most people today don't care that Ukraine has a new and full minister of culture. I would very much like this replacement to take place. But despite all that, I still think that this project needs to be supported today, because it doesn't depend on who's the pressure on which pedals, so to speak. We, the Supreme Council, must do everything we can to ensure that for the next five years our film has both the opportunity and the cost of both the budget and the financial conditions for its development. This sector will give us profit both morally and ethically, and financially. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u30	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Five national deputies were enrolled. But we need, if there's, if there's two -- for, two -- against, like that. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. None. Next. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u31	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine By the year 90, Ukraine had developed a state system of cinematography that played an important ideological and educational role in society. Every year, seven film studios in Ukraine recorded up to 50 full-length games, 12-15 animations, and up to five hundred non-game films. A branched film network of 22.5 thousand film institutions fully met the needs of the population. The film’s performance consisted of up to 400,000 copies of native and better foreign films that produced generations of Soviets. Is it possible to forget the films: "Ovod", "The Judgment of Man", "The Silent Don" and others, where ideas of humanism, high patriotism, the desire to live and create, pure human morality. The main heroes were the man of creative work, of high intelligence, and what we see on the screens today. The horrors, the low morals, the living, the debauchery. Over the past ten years, during the period of social and economic reform in Ukraine, the monopolistic state system of the film industry has been destroyed and the concept of a new model of the film industry has never been formed. The production of films has decreased considerably, and the home video market is full of low - quality foreign products. In almost all areas, the State Agency for the Management of Film Networks has been eliminated. There were seven movie theaters in our city, that is, Kirovograd, and so far, there is only one and half of the rooms seem to be rented. This situation in the film industry requires a comprehensive solution at the overall level of legal, organizational, and economic principles, its existence, and its development. This goal can only be achieved through the formation and development of a modern national film industry. In preparing a national film industry development programme in Ukraine, the real state of the culture needs to be taken into account by 2005. The main objective of the programme should be to create the right conditions for the development of national cinemas, and the programme should provide for State support for Ukrainian cinemas. Implementation of regional programs by local executives, improvement of movies to serve the population. Providing effective protection of intellectual property for movies. Comprehensive promotion of international cinematographic cooperation. So the strategy of the program is to create a self-occupied competitive industry. And in five years, we need to restore the profitability of the film industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u32	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u33	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Solidarity, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear friends! We're not going to be helped by this National Film Development Program until we can make our own production. Look, Russia next door is already making 50 films. The Belarusians have preserved the production base. What is happening to us? In Soviet times, the cost of the film ranged from 300 to 500,000 rubles, and they made 75 to 100 million rubles on the road. Look at the ratio. What's today? Today, the state is spending 20 million dollars on film production. The lack of a clear mechanism to control the distribution of funds has led to the fact that this large amount of money, which would be enough for 15 films, is being eaten by the Black Council, the Mazepa by Ilyenka and others. Mazepa chose 12 million bracelets from the State budget. The hops are 10 million dollars. And in directors like Kira Muratov, Mikhailo Bjelikov invests a million dollars in film. And these movies invite you to all the totally international film festivals. And now the painting "Golden Fever" by Bilikov cannot complete, there are no sinking costs. I'd like to draw your attention to a problem that you can't go forward with today, a problem that doesn't depend on it, it depends on this room only when we force the government to react differently to our acquisition -- that's our Derjfilmfond of the former Soviet Union, which remains in Russia, in the White Pillars of Ukrainian Films, which only after the war is kept there about 400, of which more than 300 are artists. Nobody's going to return them, they're giving us money. Is that normal? This should be decided on an interstate level and not be ashamed to ask questions. Are there movies made before the war? What then? What about those films that archiving the Longman film studios, they took possession of the frauds and sold to commercial television studios that show the clans today. What about movies? For 25 years, the long - term structures of the theater institute were not designed to accommodate the film faculties. I'd like us to react differently to our national film development programme, fill it with meaning, and personally, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on behalf of Parliament, take steps to protect, as they say in fashion, our own film industry. And you'll see where the nation's reserves are, where it needs to be raised, and how we can raise our own production, so that we don't just learn from the movies that show us today what violence, sex, and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u34	Thank you. You're in, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u35	"For," only with disgust and refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u36	Okay, thanks. Mikolo Tomenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I have a double mission, because my colleague on the committee and national artist of Ukraine Ivan Gabrieluk today, unfortunately, could not speak and I would have to express our common point of view with John Gabrieluk. But before I talk about the bill, I'd like to say that Ukrainian cinema is in such a state that today an authority actor can find a way to make use of his efforts unless it's in the Supreme Council, because there's no other way to apply his abilities. So it's no wonder that we have national artists from Ukraine, actors who are trying to find some formula for survival in Ukrainian cinema, realizing that they have no chance of acting as actors. And here, I think we're going to go to the bill, and we've limited our thinking to state support. I am absolutely convinced that the nearest, there, the next few years, we will never have enough budget to think about some systematic understanding of Ukrainian cinematographers. I think we need to create conditions so that business understands that his life in this country is largely related to art, culture, and cinema. A cinematographer is the most important thing in terms of mass culture. We have today a mass culture and culture of Ukraine that is producing American shows that tell us how to survive sexual minorities, and Russian shows that teach our children how to communicate with brothers and poets. So the rest of the cinematographer doesn't teach anything today or give anything. So my position is that in order for this document to work, we need to think about how Ukrainian business needs to get into this system and how to help the cinematographer. We need to think about how it's legislative to get into other norms that allow today the idea of creating pseudo-Ukrainian serials to take advertising money from Ukraine. It is not a secret that so far a lot of television companies are creating a kind of joint product with other television companies, where it says that one Russian television company and Ukrainian makes a series. There, let's say, for example, "1+1," there's a Ukrainian actor, and a Russian advertising company comes into the advertising market and collects money from a 47 million-dollar nation to show us a Russian movie. It also needs a legislative settlement to be able to talk about not only the general concept of restoring Ukrainian cinema, but the general idea that Ukrainian cinema should be can save us. And at the end of the day, I'd like us to understand that we need to get out of this circle a little bit. We have the impression that we have two directors, three actors, and someone in charge. We have the same people in the movies and the same directors who might need to get some rest, make movies. To give young people the opportunity to come to the cinematography, because I think the fantastic crisis of the genre is already in these famous people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u38	Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u39	Dear Head, dear colleagues, Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, the Ukrainian Youth Party. First of all, I want to point out what looks really strange, why in the ten years of our state, in the eleven years, in fact, the sector that has to make a profit in the State Budget is in a disgraceful state and still requires subsidies. So I'm convinced that maybe this national programme by 2005 will create a mechanism for these years that will allow the necessary financial scales to be launched that will make this sector profitable and a sector that will give revenue to the budget. It has already been discussed by colleagues, including the Communist Party, about the huge contribution and tremendous achievements of the Soviet cinematographer. I have to say that there are these images in Ukraine, that is, Mikola Tomenko has just said where they are. They are the images, there are people who have already represented Ukraine at the highest, most important film festivals in the world and received the first prizes. And this is Taras Tomenko, who, even after receiving the President's grand, has spent a year and a half trying to get it from the Ministry of Culture. I don't think that's a very good fact. And the fact that today his principal is actually a hostage in a hotel in Tsurupinsk, where he made a new movie for this grand, is also a very bad fact. So I'm convinced that these images are, you have to give them the best possible shot. And thirdly, there's a problem with film school. I'm convinced that it needs to be resolved because today, in fact, movie directors or students who have no place to learn and where to learn. But the technology they have, still German production, is taken during. Finally, about the program. I'm sure she needs to be accepted, but hers. We need to work out and clearly identify the tools that are needed to really work for it to really make a profit to the state and to develop our cinematographer and young artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on the National Programme for the Development of the National Film Industry has been completed by 2005. With regard to the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity. Correspondent of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Raisa Vasilivna Bogatyrova. Please, if you don't mind, until 5:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, today you are invited to consider a draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine's law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity in the application of a special commercial patent. A special trade patent was introduced in 1998 to stimulate small business development. The main idea was that for an entity carrying out legally defined activities, instead of issuing taxes and congregations, it would introduce a simplified system of taxation through the acquisition of a special commercial patent. In such a form of taxation, the relationship between the entrepreneur and the tax administration was as simplified as possible. An entrepreneur who carried out certain activities had to pay a fixed amount and could then work in peace. The experience of applying a special commercial patent demonstrated the high efficiency of such a form of taxation. Its introduction has resulted in a significant increase in the income of all levels of budgets and state-owned trust funds, a departure from the shadow of a large part of the enterprise, an increase in the number of jobs, the possibility of rebuilding trading points and civilised customer service, especially in resorts. I'm not going to give you a lot of numbers right now, but I'm going to give you some examples. For example, in Kramatorské Donetské region, during the period of a special commercial patent, the number of businesses in trade, public food, household services, small manufacturing enterprises has increased by 188 units and an additional 2 and a half thousand jobs have been created. The local budget has grown eightfold. In Illívsk, a further 1,000 jobs were created, and the income to the budgets of all levels increased by five times. We have similar results in all the cities where a special commercial patent was introduced. But everything changed in December 2001, when you and I changed the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity. The changes were made on the initiative of the government for the purpose, as highlighted in the explanatory note, of adding funds to the budgets of all levels. It's been almost a year since then. We have an opportunity with you today to analyze the results that we achieved in December last year by law that actually destroyed such a form of taxation as a special trading patent. The results are that thousands of jobs have been closed, and people have thus lost their jobs. Catastrophely, the coming down, first of all, to the local budgets, is declining today. There was an increase in the shadow sector of the economy in the area where a special trading patent was operating. By proposing a bill that virtually restores the previous edition of this law in part of the use of a special trade patent, we understand that it is a provision of certain benefits for certain types of activity. But given the current socio-economic situation in most, especially small cities where citizens simply have no place to work, we think it's a completely justified step. I want to draw your attention to this fact, and you and I have adopted the Budget Code, which has determined that out of the budgets of villages, villages, cities are financed for children's kindergartens, kindergartens and district hospitals, medical clinics, rural, rural and urban cultural palaces, clubs and libraries, but we have not given any money to do so. The situation with local budgets today is so terrible that there is not enough money even for bandages and pencils, but in these places there are our voters with you who need both medical care and I want to teach my children. The adoption of our bill will, at least in part, help solve these problems, since 67 percent of the proceeds of a special trading patent are included in local budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, let's accept this bill, I think our voters will be grateful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u42	Thank you, Raisa Vasilovna, sit down, please. The rapporteur from the committee will be the National Deputies, our colleague Philip Budzigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at its meeting on 12 November, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian law on the patenting of certain types of entrepreneurial activity. Registration number 21.60. And he invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis for the first reading. The bill provides for the abolition of restrictions on the scope of the goods, for small businesses that have the right to choose a simplified order of taxation. Rules on the obligation of business entities of natural persons who have acquired a special commercial patent have been repealed accordingly and standards for legal persons who pay a special commercial patent must be applied to the control and control apparatus, and so on. [[keep a book on cost accounting]] You remember how in the past the summons, how many people were standing in the area on the tell-tales. In my conclusion, I also support the adoption of the bill as the basis for the first reading. You'll have suggestions, let's do a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u44	Thank you, too. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Our Non-Criminal Ukraine, Solidarity Party, Dear National Deputies! The bill is very serious to be approached so easily. Of course, in Illlichewsk, which was cited today as an example, there was a fivefold increase in income. We've grown, but you and I know that if we release someone somewhere, whether in an experiment or not, let's see, in the Odessa region, except for Illichevsk, we've had some good results in Belgrade-Dnistrovsk, but we've got some significant and negatives. The bill is proposed, in particular, in article 7 p.m. delete the words leave only the value added tax and delete except the transaction tax, "importing goods into the customs territory of Ukraine or receiving from non-residents jobs, services for their use or consumption in the customs territory of Ukraine". Raisa Vasilovna, you probably didn't see or figure out what this is going to be, and I want the government to figure out how much this is going to cost to make these changes to Article 7 prime. Because there's got to be a reckoning. I think that in this case, cancelling the maximum amount of proceeds for special patent owners and including taxes that do not pay the owners of all VAT and all income tax is quite contradictory. If a special patent is used as an experiment, and the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to stop the experiment, why not let it work as liberally as possible? On the other hand, the granting of the right to owners of a special patent is not to pay VAT and not to pay income taxes on part of the income received as dividends, interest. and the proceeds of the contract of transport will lead to the avoidance of significant amounts of money tax and non-receiving of the budget. In general, let's not go to experiments or framework laws, but go to repealing the added-value tax law as a criminal law. Raisa Vasilovna, let's ask the tax administration and Minfin, who are now in charge of the same person, to solve the issues of the 6 billion that have become the blood of the unreturned VAT today, like the clot in Ukraine's economy. As long as we don't solve it, it's all going to be box bites that don't do much good. In general, the law can be adopted, but with the serious very warnings that I have told you not to make worse for our poor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u46	Yuri Pavlenko, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Yuri Pavlenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. I generally support the fact that I am the author of this law. A number of comments and objections were raised during the committee discussions and during discussions with the national deputies. I'd like some answers now. As for the first, it can be partly agreed that there may be a limit to annual turnover of 500 000 euros, especially that it is a European standard that defines small and medium-sized businesses. As for others, they are sufficiently subjective, and more so when they recognize that making these changes is a threat to Ukraine’s economic security, it is nonsense at all. First of all, the special patent rule was effective from 1998 to 2001 and proved effective. First of all, it's an increase in income to local budgets. In the cities where it was operating, it was six cities in Ukraine that created new jobs, started the exit of small entrepreneurs and medium-sized ones from the shadows. The changes that were made in 2001 virtually eliminated a special trade patent with a motivation that. And they were eliminated with the motivation that the state budget would get 10 million dollars. This, however, led to the loss of 10, 15 million dollars a year of the city’s local budget alone. So I'm convinced that these changes to the law on patenting individual activities need to be made, the law should be passed in the first reading. And the comments that the national MPs have been talking about and will still be talking about, I think you can count on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u48	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote on this matter. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Alexander Markovich Bandurka Please, Alexander Markovich. Give me five minutes, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u49	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The proposal set out in the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on licensing was prompted by life itself, since there were and were a number of devastating attacks on incassators, on persons who were busy in transporting and saving money. Today the issue of licensing is decided by the National Bank - for the banking institution. But the incursion of funds is not just about banking institutions, it's a broader concept. And the invoicing itself is not a banking operation: it's not counting money, it's not exchanging money, it's not charging interest on deposits or profits, it's an economic operation. We believe that the incarceration should be carried out professionally, with transport, communication, route security, and personal security of those engaged in the activity, and with the provision of public or private funds. So we're proposing in article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity to include paragraph 65 of this content: "Inclusion of funds," that is, the inclusion of funds should be licensed, not on the mind of Lazarus, as they say in the people, to do as they please. The Banking and Banking Act removes the issue of invoicing. According to the National Bank, the right to license the incarceration of banking institutions remains. I'll finish this. Please, if there are any questions, ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u50	There are no questions, since we are following a reduced procedure, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u52	From the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment, National Deputy Philip Budzigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u53	Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting the bill tabled by the authors Bandurka and Bartkiv, and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion, feels that the proposed draft law of Ukraine can be adopted as a basis in the first reading, taking into account the proposals made and the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u54	Thank you, too. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin, "Ours, Not Criminal, Ukraine", Solidarity, Party Protectors of Homeland. I am deeply grateful to Alexandre Markovich and to Deputy Bartkov, and to Bandourki for making adjustments and settling the matter. In fact, the destruction of the monopoly of the National Bank, which is absolutely nonbanking, is all the more so, that at a time when an arms bill has been drafted and is now in agreement, it will solve very many issues together with this law. And what is proposed is to introduce a monetary invoicing license and to expand the list of entities that may be liable to be incarcerated only to be considered positively. In fact, only the name in this law is about amending licensing issues. In fact, changes are made to the Banking and Banking Act, to the National Bank, leaving only the bank with what it needs to be included in its jurisdiction, and this law takes for those who have not seen it only one page and consists of five or six sentences, in fact. So it's on one page of everything. So I propose this law, as progressive, to be adopted in the first and second readings -- all at once, because it creates a competitive environment and is driven by positive factors. Thank you. I'm not taking any more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u56	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the draft law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing has been reviewed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I'm announcing a draft law on land protection. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Anatoly Stepanovich Danilenko. Our associate Lechchenko will be the narrator. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, briefly and clearly, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u57	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposing for your consideration a draft law on land protection designed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement part two of article 164 and paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The bill proposes to identify the institutional and legal, economic and social foundations of land protection for the purpose of ensuring and rational use, reproduction and improvement of soil fertility, other beneficial properties of the land, conservation of the ecological functions of soil cover and environmental protection. According to the bill, all lands within Ukraine are protected, regardless of their purpose, their form of ownership, their use, and their activities. The defined basic principles of public policy in the area of land protection, which are aimed at securing land protection as the main national wealth of the Ukrainian people, the priority of society's environmental interests in the use of land resources over economic interests, the full compensation of damage caused by violations of land protection legislation, regulation and the planned limitation of the impact of economic and other activities on land resources, the combination of economic incentives and legal responsibility in the field of land protection, public participation in land protection issues, the use of State and local budgets. A system of action in the area of land protection is defined, which includes a state-wide integrated land monitoring system, state-owned and regional land protection programmes, land protection projects and land protection plans, the creation of an ecological network, environmental and economic counter-erosive and other types of land-spating, economic incentives for conservation and land use measures and increased soil fertility, standardization and land protection regulations. Measures to protect and use land to increase soil fertility are proposed to encourage landowners and land users, including, firstly, the establishment of favourable tax and credit conditions for natural legal persons who take their own measures to protect land from erosion, increase soil fertility and other measures, provided for by national and regional land use and protection programmes, the release of landowners and land users from land tax payments for land-based areas where work is carried out in the fields of melioration, recycling, conservation, environmental recovery, etc. Compensations not obtained by agricultural producers as a result of conservation of degraded, low-productive and highly polluting lands. Measures to boost economic incentives for landowners, land users should be included in national and regional programmes at the expense of the corresponding budgets. Landowners and landowners are required to do business. The protection of agricultural land from erosion and other types of degradation is carried out on the basis of measures envisaged by national and regional programs and plans according to land - based, urban and other projects. Helpful. Today, out of 41.8 million hectares of total agricultural land, about 30 million acres [30.8 million ha] are negatively affected and need the work I said a little bit more about. Agrochemical passporting of irrigated and dried agricultural land is proposed to be carried out through every 3 or fine land every 5 years. A thorough survey of all land resources should take place every 20 years. The special chapter lays down the basis for financing land protection measures. A separate chapter sets out the responsibility for violating land protection legislation if identified. Disciplinary, administrative, or criminal liability is foreseen under legislation. The damage caused by violations of land law is compensable in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been processed by eight ministries and offices. Among its developers, the State Committee on Land Resources, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the Ministry of Ecology, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Justice and the Institute of Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, such as the Institute of Ground Science and Agrochemistry of Sokolovsky, the Institute of Land Management. Please, honourable national MPs, accept the bill in the first reading and considering your suggestions to consider it in the second reading and to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national MP, our colleague Grzezhev insists on one question for the rapporteur. Is there any objection? Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u59	I hear you, Anatoly Dmitrovitch, I hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u60	You can talk, and that's what we're talking about. The note was, and I asked for it. It's one "for", one "against". This isn't a performance. National Deputy Grzezhev, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u61	Dear colleagues and distinguished Anatoly Stepanović. We're old acquaintances with you, I know you treat me with respect and affection, and I treat you the same way. However, today we are on different sides, figuratively speaking, of the barricade, that I am very sorry. This indicates that the current system of power is so vicious that it cripples both friendship and friendship. That's right, take note. It's a matter of order. Selling land is a matter of keeping it safe, I think you'll agree. I recently read one of the phrases in the Bible, the Bible was given to me by my colleague Chernovetsk, such words there, the Most High: “The land should not be sold, for my land, but you are aliens and settlers with Me.” This is how you feel about these words, given that you are a hard worker in land reform and are not afraid of being held accountable before the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u62	Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u63	Dear Anatoly Dmitriovich, thank you for asking. I want to say very briefly. First of all, I want to tell you in English, as I understand it. The earth should never be betrayed, and that is, first of all, the targeted draft of the law that we are considering with you, and those issues that you have raised, I suggest, Your Honorable Anatoly Dmitriovich, if you have time, I would like to talk to you and exchange thoughts, because we are really going to put some bills into your consideration today, and I think, first of all, we have very, very careful treatment of every square of our Ukrainian land. This is, first of all, my position and I think we're in the same position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u64	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. The word for the report from the profile committee is headed by the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u65	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The draft Law on Land Protection is carefully considered by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Indeed, the term "land protection" includes a whole set of measures to be taken. However, in today’s conditions, when many reformers forget about what they have done before, it is impossible to do the best possible under very limited funding. On the contrary, today neither the State nor the owners of the earth nor the earth’s users are practically unoccupied or carrying them out in very small amounts. The main thing now for market subjects is to suck everything out of the ground as soon as possible. Thus, the system of scientificly based seismics, including ground defences, has been destroyed. They grow what gives the most money — grain, sunflower, and so forth, even under monoculture. We'll soon forget about organics. Seeds of weeds in the soil were accumulated for 100 years. Meliorative systems are abandoned, so the earth is marred or affected by wind erosion. The poles are cut off, and the anti-erosive structures are kept at a low technical level due to the lack of funds. Of course, the Land Protection Act is essential. The project presented by the Cabinet of Ministers mainly covers the problem. Much of the work done by experts can be attributed to the positive, but there are many flaws. This applies to the project articles on land administration, land monitoring, standardization and regulation, planning, use and land protection, land conservation, and so on. In addition, the failure to define the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local governments, land law, agricultural law, and the protection of land for historical and cultural purposes, transport, communication, energy and other purposes are not regulated by the bill at all. In general, the bill requires substantial work, so the subcommittee on land relations, water and forestry at the committee meeting suggested that it be sent for further work. The same is true of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Scientific Research Administration. But after a comprehensive discussion, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations acknowledged that it was possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on land protection as a basis. When preparing for the second reading, it is important to work with the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given by the national MP Yuri Karmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u67	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. It was said today that the earth is God’s, it must be preserved. And that's why the sooner we're going to adopt this law, which actually comes out of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Earth Code, the better it will be for us. [[from paragraph 4 of the Final Positions]] So I think that the committee made an informed decision when he recommended this law as a basis. The law deserves to be taken as a basis, but it needs to be worked out. I'd like to say a favor. The law for the first time provides for the distribution of levels of control, but does not make relations between them. It divides into state control; the control exercised by the executive authority of the budget is controlled by local governments and for the first time introduces the concept of public control. This public control, according to article 5, is to be carried out by public inspectors for the use and protection of land. If there was such public control, and I invite you to the city of Odessa's hero who is now captured by a criminal clan under the leadership of the city's head. So there, even today, the parks are cut down in the center of Odessa, where no one has ever thought of building, all of this is done. This law is even late; it is very necessary. And you have to write the ratio of government control and control of local self-government. State control must be over everything, and public control must also be important, they must have the right to appeal to the court to stop the impropriety of officials. And I also welcome this law because there's monitoring of land and soil in article 37, but I think what we do, we go and we say that might be international, it might be a little bit of an exaggeration. Why do we need international monitoring? We have to own our own house. And I think it needs to be removed about international monitoring, we're talking about our land, we're talking about protecting our own interests. I'm under the law, I don't worship that he is and I ask you to intensify the work on his acceptance. He needs it as soon as possible. Thank you to the committee for making it. Thank you and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u68	Alexander Masenko, a faction of Communists, prepare the Hare. You don't? Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u69	Honorable National Deputies, the Land Protection Act, is vital and essential because it is about protecting the basic natural resources and the wealth of Ukrainians. At his meeting, the committee carefully considered the bill and found it extremely weak. Many of the issues of land protection, even in the imperfect Earth Code, are much broader and more specific than that special bill that we are talking about. For example, the question of protecting the land of the water fund in the Earth Code is devoted to about 10 articles, although each of you knows that the current Earth Code does not even contain a minimum of legislative provisions that would allow for effective protection of these lands. Instead, the special law that we are currently discussing deals only with one article on 26th and it has a reference standard, that is, it proposes to develop and adopt another law. And that's the reference in this bill at least 5 and there's a lot of references to legislation. What, then, is the purpose of this law? In addition, the bill does not actually address governance and land protection control issues. There's only one article on this issue, and it's still got a link. The Committee believes that the order of State control over the protection and rational use of land, the mechanisms for its implementation, and the exercise of self-governance and public control in this area of activity should be developed and clearly defined in this bill, which should become the law of direct action in the field of activity. In order to link the legal and regulatory framework on land protection issues, it would be appropriate for the project to issue a separate special article on land protection legislation, which should list the main legislative acts governing the relevant relations. In addition, a number of important environmental problems need to be addressed in the bill. First of all, this involves avoiding the unwarranted use and deterioration of land along the seas around seaweed and lemons. Each of you, honourable national deputies, knows that the use of water funds is now being made. Even under Kiev’s capital, an individual forgettance destroys the primordial meadows, the beavers, the shallows, and the areas of mass relaxation of the Chinese and the city’s guests, destroying the coastal protection strips along the seas, around the sea bays, and the lianas. There are numerous complaints about this in our committee. The bill should also address the issue of non-admissible removal and deterioration of lands of conservation and conservation reserved land, particularly in the acquisition and realization of the right to land. Needs substantial elaboration and specification of article 39 of the bill - responsibility for violating land protection legislation. The draft law does not deal with the protection of lands of historical culture, as well as with lands of industry, transportation, communication, energy, defense, and other purposes. Finally, it should be noted that most of the bill's provisions are of a general, binding, declarant nature and do not define the mechanisms for their implementation. At the same time, this very respected colleague would have to remove literally all questions about land protection. The committee therefore believes that Ukraine’s draft land protection law needs substantial work, after which it can be submitted for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u70	Ivan Tomic is the head of the agrarian committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u71	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, as we consider the draft Ukrainian law on land protection, we must proceed from the constitutional position that the land is the main national wealth under special protection of the state. Thus, first of all, it is necessary for all to understand the leaders of the governmental and executive authorities and local governments: the attitude toward the earth, its basic ingredient, has changed, since the earth is the main means of agricultural production, without which it is impossible to discuss Ukraine’s food security. The issue of rational use and protection of agricultural land, especially in today's conditions, should be addressed in a multifaceted and comprehensive manner in the legal, economic, environmental and social plans, specifying the characteristics, characteristics of the territory and the purpose of each square metre of Ukrainian land. It is no secret that the situation of agricultural lands in Ukraine has deteriorated significantly in recent decades and has become dangerous. This is primarily true of a ground roof that has largely lost its self - control properties. Water and wind erosion are the most serious factors in reducing the productivity of land resources. The total area of agricultural land affected by water erosion is more than 13 million hectares. Consider: Nearly a third of the Ukrainian Blacklands are affected by water erosion. In recent times, there has been an increase in the technology of soil pollution by radionuclides, pesticides, and infectious diseases. Lands belonging to industrial cities are polluted by heavy metals. The total area of degraded and undernourished arable land is nearly 5 million acres [5 million ha], almost 20 percent of the arable land. It should be borne in mind that among degraded and malnourished soils, more than 3 million acres [3 million ha] of land need immediate removal. These issues need to be settled immediately at the legislative level, and that is what the draft law that we are considering today must be addressed. In addition, we need to move from talking about protection to action. I see these actions next. First, we need to adopt the proposed bill as soon as possible. Second, it is necessary to raise and develop a draft national land protection programme by 2010 from the government's policies. Third, the law on land fees should be reinstated, according to which up to 30 percent of the land tax should be centralized. It's 300-400 million bracelets a year, we can't find any other funds. The fact that we suspend the State Budget Act every year the operation of the specified law on land pay, we lose the fertility of our black countries. Fourthly, the government of Ukraine, which is to exercise State control over land use and protection, needs to make sure that this control is actually in the country. Unfortunately, he's not here today. Fifth, we also need to adopt effective legislation to protect and strengthen private property rights. Thus, the constitutional position of the State under special protection needs to be implemented as quickly as possible. That's why such a bill is absolutely necessary, and I think with these refinements, I think it'll be acceptable for a second reading, to work with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u72	We need to take the first reading and then the second reading. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Land Protection has been completed. With regard to the decision, we will be determined by the vote, taking into account the discussion that took place here. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 77-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Natural and Official Persons for Burning the Block. Dear colleagues, we still have a lot to look at in the bill, and I'd like to ask you to do it quickly. Actually, we can't, because we're following a reduced procedure. But if you sign up for the performance, there will be questions and speeches right away. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u73	Dear Head, dear colleagues. As a result of poor agrotechnical practices, the burning of the stern is used in many agro-farms after harvesting. Large fires are burning in the fields, which, in large areas, destroy dozens of hectares of meadows, pastures, steppe, wetlands, and other natural vegetation. Wooden forests are lit by fire, and dozens of hectares of forests are set on fire. Such fires in the summer of last year sometimes lasted for several days, and in the southern areas of Ukraine they reached the extent of the environmental disaster. This year, as a result of the rains and, it is to be expected, the situation has changed somewhat by the appropriate authorities of the State. However, no one can say that the problem has disappeared. The result of steppe fires is a deterioration in the quality of soil. On the one hand, there is no restoration of organic matter, and according to scientists, one ton of straw is equivalent to 4 to 5 tons of manure, and, on the other hand, the burning of the rubble that lies on the ground, along with it from the top layer, burns up remains of fertile gum. It makes the land less fertile. In the meantime, Ukraine’s legislation foresees a rather soft responsibility for burning rubble, onions, pastures, and other vegetation. In order to eliminate this legislative gap, members of the factions of the People’s Democratic Party proposed to add to the current legislation. The bill provides for an increase in the liability of natural persons and a significant increase to a hundred untaxed minimum of citizens' income, the responsibility of officials for burning and not taking action to extinguish the burning trunk at the same time, the area with the tap, wetlands and other natural vegetation. Prior to the harvest in the Ukrainian Parliament on the day of the Government’s Minister of Agrarian Politics, Sergey Ribuk stressed the need for the adoption of such a bill. He noted, in particular, that at the selective meetings held by the Ministry, with more than sixty thousand heads of agriculture, heads of different levels, attention was focused on the unacceptable primitive destruction of the remains of straw. As the All - Ukrainian Ecological League has learned, scientific research in this direction has virtually failed, and there are no statistics to date on steppe fires. In any case, the All-U.S. Environmental League will continue to control and take the necessary measures to ensure that one of the old livelihoods does not have a place in Ukraine for the 21st century. The drafters generally agree with the conclusions and proposals of the Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and, I hope, the law in the first reading of the proposals made to the project take into account in order to prepare it for second reading and to approve it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u74	The procedure is to be followed by the People’s Deputy. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u75	Anatoly Volodymyrovich, you were right to say that burning a rudder is a sin before God and before the people, but you did not say that 90 percent of us burned straws in our fields. The straw was used to feed, yes, perhaps it was rude, and the straw was used earlier on the mat that it gave. Which you're talking about, which is now 90 percent burned in the fields. As you travel through Ukraine, you will not see the seams of straw anywhere, as you do. And we have to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u76	Of course, I can't be positive about this, and I think that your replica is in support of this bill, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u77	Thank you, Anatoly Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues! There is a positive opinion from the committee. There's no need for a committee, I guess. Then let us move on to the discussion. As always, Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" opens the debate. To prepare for the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Non-Criminal Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Fatherland Defenders, the city of Odessa. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The question was absolutely correct today, and I am very grateful to the National Deputies and Tolstouchov and Karpov for their attention and offer to complete, and this is only about the additions, the Codex of Article 77 prm. The Code of Administrative Offences. In fact, the question that he raised today three times, the hero of the Omelian Man, the burning of straw is a crime, and this is an administrative offense. Or it was a crime, because burning straw is a crime, everybody understands, it's a matter of harm to the state and so on. I have an important point to make to this law, which I believe can be accepted in general only if it is recalled and added a few words. I want you to hear what this is about. So we wrote, more faithfully, the authors of Tolstouchov and Karpov: "Fire, and so the lack of action on the timely quenching of rudders, onions, pastures, areas and steppes, one swamp and another natural vegetation." That's absolutely right. But who did not take action? The owner, the tenant, the clerk, or the official, or just the bus or the driver? By Whom Is Not Taking Action? Are you going to overload everyone who's going on the road? You're not going to overload everyone, you know. Therefore, it is necessary to write to those to whom it belongs and to identify it among those to whom it belongs. It's a circle of individuals that needs to be identified and narrowed down right now. So this thing needs to be settled. Without this whole law, you can't understand it, because it's going to be directed to an unlimited number of people, and it's impossible to increase. In general, in order for our citizens to know, the bill proposes to increase substantially the fines for citizens - up to 170 dollars, for officials - 850 dollars. Increase fines also within the areas and sites of the natural reserve. There's up to 1,700 bucks in there. Thank you for your attention. I'm for adopting this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u79	The people's representative of the Hare. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to increase responsibility for the spontaneous burning of dry vegetation or its remains, and to establish responsibility for the failure to take measures to put these fires out in time. Some of you may feel that this question is irrelevant and does not need our attention. In fact, we're dealing with a very serious problem and that's why. First. The burning of dry vegetation and its leftovers in the fields along roads, forests, ditches, and so on pollutes the air in huge areas that cause enormous damage to human health and the environment. Research has shown that much of the harmful to human health, including heavy metals, is found in the atmosphere precisely as a result of such unwarranted activity. Which of you, the distinguished national deputies, did not see during the harvest season or during the early spring of the dense smoke mists in the tens or hundreds of miles ’ space? And each of you knows that it is during this time that the health of many is deteriorating, especially those with respiratory problems, endocrine systems, and blood circulation. The other one. The burning of rubella, dry vegetation, always leads to the destruction of the nesting sites of birds, habitats, and the finding of animals, of the entire animal and plant species. Imagine a picture that I witnessed in the spring of this year. Someone lit dry grass on both sides of the road between Kanev and Sofia. The flame was turned from the earth to the trunks of trees and reached the branch of a young leaf. These trees were burned like giant candles, and they were fought in despair by birds who could not reach their nests and save their young. Such fires rob animals and birds of valuable food because they burn seeds, seeds, and so forth. Many animals and birds die or are forced to migrate to other places, disrupting natural balance. I'm not talking about the stress they have to deal with at least twice a year. Third. Burning the stern, dry vegetation destroys the microflora and the earth’s bitumen, exacerbates its structure, and weakens its soil. Instead of using rubble and plant residues to prepare composts, organic fertilizers, they are simply burned. Millions of tons of straw, dry grass, other plant residues are burned, essentially nutrients, which are a major waste. And they want to get high crops. Who's finally going to be responsible for this destructive activity, this kind of policy? Four. The burning of rubella and dry vegetation reinforces the processes of water and wind erosion of land, resulting in degradation of soils and other negative effects. The slopes of the hills burned from the dry grass become vulnerable to spring and autumn rains, and the fields burned cannot be protected from wind erosion of the soil. Fifth. The burning of rubble, dry vegetation, often leads to large fires in forests, forests, and so forth, causing great damage to the natural environment. To reinforce this, I'll just give you a few digits. Only in the spring of this year did natural fires occur in the Ilyinecki and Winnietsky regions of the Winnietsky region. I'm done, ten seconds. As a result, nearly 20 acres [20 ha] of forest crops were burned and the natural environment was damaged by nearly 150,000 dollars. In just one day, forest fires damaged 30 acres [30 ha] of protection strips in the frat region of the Mikolai region. The damage caused by this natural environment is estimated at 169 thousand dollars. In the Blackwater Blagrolis forests, forest fires in the area of 50 acres [51 ha] resulted from the mass burning of dry vegetation. I'd still be able to continue with the list of things that have been done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u81	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u82	I'll be right with you. Humans and the environment are being harmed, but it is enough to take the matter seriously. So I propose that this law be adopted in the first reading. And the most appropriate step to address this problem is the total ban on burning back and dry vegetation, as well as the increase in fines for doing so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u83	Thank you. National MP Sergey Ivanovich Droguncsov, Communist faction. Prepare Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think that this project should be implemented by Tolstoy at the 12th call, not today, because in the meantime, so many rudders have been burned. I'm sorry I didn't do it in 1990, 1991. I would like to emphasize or remind you that there is a farm in Poltavščina in Shisak region headed by the Socialist Work Hero and the Ukrainian Hero Antonec Semindovich and his daughter Antonina Seminowna. For more than 20 years, land - protection systems have been used, and the biological farming system has now been used. So, Semen Spiridonovich Antonic told me 15 years ago that burning a rudder was, in fact, a crime, according to the People's Deputy. It's not an offence, it's just a crime, because in one ton of rudder, one ton of rudder replaces four tons of manure. Four tons of manure! And we're turning it all into smoke. You know, we could use this lever to arrange a farm, earn it in the ground, but it's easier to drop the match, burn it so we don't have to worry about it. I think this bill should be adopted in the first reading. And it's not just administrative responsibility, it's criminal responsibility. But in what form? I don't think we should put a renter in jail there. It's easier than that. We need him to pay for it. He burned thorns-- let's figure out how many tons of manure that is and let him pay for a full basket and some index and so on. Dear friends, we must still take care of the earth, protecting it. Danielenko reported this. Should the earth be protected only from technological pressures? And from the anthropogenic influences, from the predators on the ground, there are disproportionately large areas of sunflowers, and the sunflower burns the earth for 10 years. They're no longer fit for anything. So I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u85	Thank you. National Deputy Tereshuk. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing an extension of the session 15 minutes after the 18th hour, and we'll continue to make arrangements there. Well, if you don't want to go, we'll work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u86	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy, discussed the bill of amendments and additions to article 77 of the Code of Administrative Violations. And we're very pleased, agrarians, that the problems of the village today are being taken care of by other factions. At first glance, the simple bill recognized the agrarians as having such a rather broad discussion. On the one hand, those who offered to leave the bill that is now there were convinced that there was not enough technology in the village today to process the plant’s remains. What is the problem of not reprocessing the plant’s remains? You've seen the orange, you've seen the soil preparation. In the end, the crop is affected. In fact, the situation in the countryside today is difficult, and not everyone today is able to process the plant’s remains qualitatively. But still in the committee, we've come together almost unanimously to end this, probably already a disgraceful phenomenon -- burning the back. There is no such thing in Europe. By burning the stove, we destroy the very basic -- the black earth that we all talk about so beautifully. The Blacklands are the wealth that is in Ukraine. Secondly, we burn useful entomophages, thirdly, we harm and harm those who suffer from allergic diseases. The committee therefore decided to support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u87	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft law amending article 77-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Natural and Officials for Burning the Blocks has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft law to amend the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Agriculture 2001-2004 on the deletion of section 8, paragraph 3, of the Final Position. Rapporteur - Ukrainian national deputy Omelyan Nikonovich Parubok With time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The committee I work on is agrarian. The committee did not support my law, but this committee is called upon to uphold this law. They don't support him, and I'm gonna ask the MPs. Deputies who are also elected from rural areas, and we have almost 50 percent of the rural districts. When you went to the elections, you promised to protect all rights, rights that apply to the village. If you make a decision on our committee, it's not about protecting the rights, it's about pretending to be in the country. There's only one thing I can tell you: The insurmountable prices of technology, mineral fertilizers, and grain, meat, and milk do not fit those prices 10 times. And this bankruptcy law has given some unclean people the urge to take this property into their own hands, to take it into their own hands, and so they cover up that they're cracking their shirts. And the committee says, let's just hold on to how things are done, and then we'll give you a moratorium. There'll be nothing left to hide. I ask for a moratorium by 2004 on the property of ex-CSPs who have been dispossessed. Let me give you an example. One farm, it wrote me a letter, and I have hundreds of them, coming from all the regions of our Ukraine, because I've been working on the APC, on the agrarian committee for over 20 years, and I've had hundreds of these letters coming to me. With your permission, I'll give you one letter, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And you're going to read it carefully, you're going to give an answer to me and the villagers who are going to the Supreme Council to protect their rights. So the Kyiv company took possession of a farm without the knowledge of the peasants. They took 90 percent of the shares under their own hands, both land and property. The peasants left 10 percent. Shame! But today is the second day. They were given 200 grains of wheat, 180 ounces of barley, and 470 grains of wheat as natural food. What a shame! So since the tax service is now in operation, since the executive service is in operation, in the spring they come to the farm, they take the combine and 2 tractors for 20,000. In the fall, literally a week ago, the same team came again, took two tractors: "Belarus," who knows what a tractor is, and MZ for 13,000. The one who rides the tractor and the car in his life knows that in these two tractors eight wheels, each wheel costs a thousand, 8,000 wheels only. Two or eight, yeah, means 8,000? Next. You know, the cheapest pad right now is 50 bucks, and there's over a hundred of them in each tractor. You know there's more than three tons of scrap metal. And that's how it's done?Oh, my God! It's a disgrace! If we don't support this law to impose a moratorium on bankruptcy by 2004, then we who work for the next year, in rural districts, have nothing to do with going there and asking for alms to be re-elected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u89	Thank you, Omelyan Nikonovich. From the committee, please, Alexander Alexander Shevchenko. You will? You don't? Please, National Deputy Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm a little in a difficult situation, I really respect Omelian Nikonovich, this is actually a person who proved by doing what he can do, but in this situation, I can't fully agree and this is the opinion of the vast majority of the deputies of our committee. Why? The question of bankruptcy is, first of all, the question of recovery. There is no need to take a simplified view of bankruptcy, buy - out, and leave. Omelyan Nikonovich, we have in Cherkas you know that there is a law on bankruptcy in enterprises with 25 percent of state property. Tell me that we have a sugar plant and that we have today with Lisanka, which we have with Bujanka with a sugar plant, we can't go bankrupt. Perhaps someone who bought a property complex would not have stolen it, cut it off, bought a property complex, and restored it. Part of what you said is right. There must be restrictions, there must be a clear mechanism of bankruptcy, of course you cannot allow it to be able to buy everything and everything and free. But we still have to put all the businesses that exist in Ukraine at the same level. According to the bankruptcy moratorium, you know that many are hiding. A lot of people don't want to work with that. So, in part, you can accept your suggestions. I think we're going to work together on our proposals and bring them up to date with the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you are written on this occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Our Non-Criminal Ukraine, Solidarity Party, Dear friends! It's going to be very difficult for me to speak out of this question when I saw that this law was passed by Omelyan Nikonovich Parubek, and it was even harder for me, the more the person from where I was born, he's from those places, and we're compatriots. Why Is It Hard? Because, Omeljan Nikonović, the right of a citizen ends where the right of another citizen begins. Yes, it's an ancient Roman formula, and it exists today. And it's the right thing to do, because if you take a debt, you have to pay it back. When you take it into the state, we can decide that in this room, and we've decided that, we've done it all the time. And when you're not in the state, that's a little bit of a different question, another regulation of that. When you take another citizen, the other citizen also wanted to get out of poverty and wanted to do something. That is why I want to deny to you, Omelyan Nikonovich, and to say that in this case the committee has done wisely without supporting you. Because you're suggesting that you actually cancel the mechanism of economic responsibility for bad performance. I mean, someone can do good farming, and someone can do bad farming. So not everything here is to blame for the bankruptcy law, which has caused a lot of trouble and will continue to do so in our country. This is actually another way of privatizing the bankruptcy law. But here he is, so to speak, just like a sword, like an ax that hangs. So you're proposing to amend the law to encourage the development of the agricultural producer, and in fact you want to renew the law on the restoration of the debtor's ability to provide that change and complement. But it is not by conscience, for it is taken away from someone. So I'm going to vote against this law, I want to tell you quite frankly. And here. And that's another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question has been considered. As for the decision, we will be determined on the day of the vote. Yeah? The replica. People's Deputies. Turn on the microphone. Yes, yes, because the last name was called several times. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u94	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I don't call your last name to give me another line. I called you the firm that's in Kiev, 90 percent took its assets, the peasants' assets, and all the debts lie not on the firm, but on the peasants. How can you do that? The court doesn't admit that as an MP you don't admit, the lawyer, Tereshuk doesn't admit it, I think, even though our honourable Head of the Supreme Council may admit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u95	National MP Lechchenko, procedure, please. Yes, please use the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u96	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'm out of procedure. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, well, the procedure behind the reduced procedure is to consider the bills, two for, two against, and we've got two against, and we don't have a pro. So I'd like a few words for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, you see, the state is now creating special conditions for these agricultural enterprises to go bankrupt. This is due to the approaching January 1, 2005, when the land will be purchased and sold. So, from that point of view, and I'll tell you that we're supported by millions of rural people, I'm supporting the proposal of Omelan Nikonovich Parubek to stop the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u99	Ending positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u100	Yes, the final clauses regarding bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a few more. What, Catherine Timothy, was yours, right? Please, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I agree with the reporter that there are a lot of law-abiding rules. If we had a law today that determined how to calculate the proper value of the property, how to distribute it, how to give it back to people, how to protect property, if we had such a developed and adopted law, it would not be in the order of the day today. And just as there are so many violations in place today and there are no other rules of law, this rule must be supported by the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of this matter. We're going to make decisions on Thursday, but I'd like us to come out of what are economic laws, economic mechanisms, and there's real life when people, and we're all sort of from the village, are just insolently, cynically stealing. That's it. And we need to respond accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Anti-Fraud Act. We have two bills here that apply to land payments. We could think about it this way: we're going to look at them for a little bit now, because there are positive decisions made by the profile committee. A few minutes later, Hara Vasil Georgievovich, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovich, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, as well as from the committee to speak with Vladimir Alexiyovich Lešchenko. Is there no objection? That is, two things to unite and consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the bill of which I am the author, appeared at the request of the trade unions in the Dnepropetrov region, and they are very right to ask me: prepare such a bill. Its aim is to streamline the land relations of all types of child health camps. You know, the lion's share of sanatoriums and children's camps, they get on the health list and they don't get paid. It's part of it. which does not fall on this list, they are thought to be somewhat in a different situation. Second. This reduces the burden on the cost of child travel, which means that it will be cheaper and cheaper and more accessible. According to the State Committee of Ukraine, there are 869 suburban people in our country today. Fixed child health camps, 812 of which are on the balance of enterprises, organizations, institutions and institutions, are in the worst position. In these institutions, 600,000 school-age children are getting better each year, and that is only ten per cent of all school-age children in our country. This, of course, does not even provide the most basic need for the recovery of our children, who, in fact, today in Ukraine are not going to be able to find healthy children. The network of children's health camps has already declined twice since 1990, and the trend has unfortunately continued to increase. The main reason is the financial insolvency of enterprises and organizations on which these camps are balanced is the first reason. The second is the constant rise in energy tariffs, utilities, trade, food and other services for children who use child health camps. It is also important that camps be taxed in an excessive manner and by local authorities. They can understand that they are trying to solve their own problems through camps in their regions. And they're already making solid land payments, forcing camps, and, more specifically, businesses, signing cable contracts and taking land fees out of them. I don't think it's normal. If we think of our generation and want to make it better in the summer, we must make that decision, especially since there will be virtually no budget loss. Why, because every year the Supreme Council made a decision: as an exception to the exemption from land payment for children's health camps of enterprises and organizations. I think we need to do this in the system in order to create a normal environment for maintaining this same system of child health camps so that it can heal children. Well, maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u105	Thank you very much. Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovich, please. Prepare Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u106	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Basically, it's a question. In line with the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 25 April 2002 to strengthen the security of the State border in the context of combating international terrorism, elegance and drug trafficking, the President's decree to amend the Law on Land Pay has been duly ordered by the Cabinet of Ministers. The cost of the issue of foreign troops that regulate the release of land payments in foreign armies. It's 7,000 acres, the price is 1 million 800,000. Indeed, each year the Supreme Council in its budget made the appropriate decision and freed the border armies from paying taxes on land. Therefore, it is suggested that the honourable national deputies, for your consideration, the amendments to the Land Pay Act are proposed for you to support. Thank you for your attention, if there are any questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u107	No, I'll be here, let's run it, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u108	Mr. Minister, the military force is appropriate, Alexandre Ivanovich, is the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to support the State Committee's proposals on land resources and this bill today is in the Cabinet of Ministers, but you, as a national deputy, have the right to legislative initiative and you will report. The committee and the Cabinet of Ministers, I don't think there's gonna be any objection here, just support. By way of exception, the honorable Alexander Ivanovich, the entire land of defense, 451,000, except for that land that is in the loyal entrepreneurial structures, 60,000 hectares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u109	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please. Dear colleagues! What difference does it make to you is that the Cabinet of Ministers has offered to release the foreign troops. Alexander Ivanovich introduced a bill that envisions the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Border Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your point is to propose a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. The introduction of the draft law is provided for in the following. First. The need to resolve the disagreement in article 14 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, which stipulates that land is secured by military forces, military educational institutions, institutions and organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is state property and is exempt from paying taxes under article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. The final provisions of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act provide for amendments to Ukraine’s relevant laws, including the Ukrainian Land Payment Act, which has not yet been made. Secondly, the payment of land taxes by budgetary institutions, including military units, military institutions and other organizations of the Armed Forces and the Ukrainian Border Guards, which are financed by the State Budget, has to periphery the allocation of appropriate amounts of funds to pay this tax. This amount is about 130 million dollars worth of land tax. During recent years, no military expenditures are foreseen for this purpose. And there has been a steady practice of freeing them annually from paying land taxes under Ukraine’s State Budget Act. On the one hand, it is related to the fact that expenditures for both the Armed Forces and the Border Forces are provided between 50 and 60 percent of the need. On the other hand, such a solution is contrary to tax legislation, under which it can only be settled by making appropriate changes to Ukraine’s land pay law. The draft law, which you have introduced for your consideration, is provided for. The adoption of the law will enable the use of public funds to strengthen the security of the state and the security of the state border. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations reviewed the bill and suggested that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. The committee's decision was taken unanimously. The conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the Bill is also positive. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please support the bill and accept it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u111	Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, has discussed all three of these bills on the committee. I have to say that the bill that was passed by the national MP Hara is proposed for adoption in the first reading. And of these two bills, 2074 and 2074-1 are proposed to support the last one reported by National MP Alexander Kuzmuk. True, both of these bills have been adopted on the committee with observations, so in the first reading only to accept them and then to work on them. But I also wanted to say something else. As we speak of the exemption from land and children’s institutions and foreign armies and armies, the country’s 2003 government budget has been adopted in the second reading. And it is here that article 49 states that the exemption from the payment of these facilities that we talked about is at 50 percent of the effective rates. I think that and, Alexander Ivanovich, you should also pay attention to this. The point is that if we miss this state budget already in the third reading it will come into force, then our bills will come into force until January 1, 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u113	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing these issues. It's obvious. The decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members of the People's Party, a number of deputies are proposing that we briefly discuss a draft law on the national programme for minimizing the consequences of the 2002-2005 Chernobyl disaster and for the period up to 2010. There is a committee decision, and the committee here even wrote down that it is urgent to request information from the Cabinet of Ministers in furthering its second reading, this bill. I would then like to have a few words from the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Blackwater Disaster of Vasil Stepanovich Luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was drafted to implement article 16 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It was reviewed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the project is designed to implement it, to preserve the health of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to bring them to the economic rehabilitation of areas affected by radioactive pollution. clean, sheltered citizens affected, strengthened, and supported by radiation safety barriers, radiation protection for the population living in the area affected by radiation pollution, and restrictions on the spread of radionuclides from the alien zone. Ukraine's National Programme Bill establishes a permanent procedure for funding the National Programme's actions over the next 8 years, setting out the minimum possible amounts of government budget expenditure that can ensure priority tasks for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The implementation of the measures will enable significant economic performance in the development of the affected areas at the average level in Ukraine and ensure social protection for the affected population at an appropriate level. It should be noted that the development of the programme took into account the overall economic development strategy of the country, the conclusions of the International Conference "15 Years of the Chernobyl Disaster", the experience gained in recent years, and the conclusions drawn from scientific research aimed at studying the whole set of problems that have arisen in connection with the accident at CAES. These conclusions are to support the international community, including the UN. The draft law is discussed in scientific institutions and institutions and with representatives of the All-Ukrainian Society of the Union of Chernobyl of Ukraine, agreed with all interested central and local authorities. Dear National Deputies! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u116	Yuri Shirko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You have just been presented with a draft Ukrainian law, which has long been awaited by citizens who have been suffering from the Chernobyl disaster, and professionals who have eliminated the effects of the Blackwater AES and the Ukrainian public. This expectation is explained by the insufficient development of the National Programme for the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster in 1996-2000 by the Council of Jehovah of Ukraine, when it failed to approve the programme as a law of Ukraine. This led to major deficiencies in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. There are no clearly defined and agreed priorities for minimizing the consequences. This is the reason for the incomplete implementation of urgent measures, the dispersal of resources and resources in all directions, the formation of a significant public debt from social benefits. Therefore, it is now necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of countermeasures carefully and objectively and to carry out further work on the basis of the results obtained. The national programme for minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2002-2005 and for the period to 2010, the National Programme was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1999 and has been continuously developed. The National Program provides an opportunity to identify priorities for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, social, medical and psychological rehabilitation of the population, the economic recovery of populated areas and areas affected by reactive pollution, and the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage. Any government program can be continuously developed and improved. And the Chief Scientific Research Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, referring to the need to refine some of the provisions of the national programme, suggests that it be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster believes that it is possible to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law as a basis, although it points out that it requires mandatory and substantive work. The committee has already received requests from deputies, committees, and parliamentary factions for proposals and comments to the national program. This reflects the wishes of the deputies in their work, objectively and scientifically, to improve the project of the above - mentioned program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u117	Thank you, Yuri Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues, six national deputies were enrolled. I'd ask for one minute at a time. Please, Yuri Carmazin begins. From place, turn on the microphone, prepare for the national MP Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u118	Yuri Kramazin, "Our Non-Criminal Ukraine", "Sollidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that there is little time for this very important question. Of course, the National Program to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster should provide for real mechanisms, not just declarations. In my opinion, the real mechanisms of real money supply, the real fulfillment of the assistance of international institutions, which should have been when we decided that the final closure of the last block of the Chernobyl AES would not have come. You remember that on that day when we were here at parliamentary hearings, we were voting on a ruling. I was one of the authors of that decision after the Chernobyl disaster. By his decision, the president had stopped the power grid. This was shown by all the TV channels, everything. And what did we get from the West? Nothing. I think it should be written here: putting these questions on an international level and putting them on the table. The program needs to be adopted in the first reading, but it needs to be stuffed, if you can say so with money, and it should be shown that it is the cause of radiation pollution, and that one way to deal with the diseases that have gone on today is to predict that it can be funded by our own domestic development, our own domestic medicine and our scientists. Only such a program has the right to life, but it should be accepted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u119	Thank you. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u120	Yes, dear fellows, I'll say the following without introduction. In general, I think it's a rib program to take in the first reading, but I want to make a note and start literally with the last sentence of Carmazin. Indeed, when we were given grants, 95 percent of the money was taken away. And Ukraine didn't get anything -- no production, no appliances, nothing like that. So to this program, I have specific comments like that. First, in the chapters, I'm not going to call them, then I'm going to call them in writing to the second lady, but I'm going to say, where it's about the mechanism of doing the work, to what is there, you have to add -- "use of Ukrainian technology, equipment and equipment." Add that to ours, Ukrainian. Because they're offering us everything. Next. In the next chapter of Science Accompaniment, add the phrase that the development of devices, devices, equipment, medicines, what we can do to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Further, and where there's a chapter that's kind of the acquisition of the whole world -- this achievement of science -- we actually have new achievements, but they're being used for free in the world. So, given the intellectual property legislation, we can pass them on, not just like that. Just like we do: you want to get paid. So we have: there are counterfeits, you want to get it for yourself, on our mountain -- you have to pay the money. And last of all, here's a list of actions. I believe that Ukraine's contribution to the Chernobyl Fund to the implementation of the SIP programme to 40 million is irrelevant to this program. The fuel and energy complex is doing this program separately, let's do it. There's a separate line in the budget. That's where you remove that name, and you leave that 40 million, but you write all that development and use of Ukrainian equipment, devices, devices, medicines and financing. There's this company called Rod in the Ministry of Emergency Situations that's doing the elimination of radioactive waste, not from nuclear stations, but now they're all together. That's why the program needs to be supported like this. And in closing, since it's been there for 30 seconds, I'll tell you. Dear, new Head of the Supreme Council, new Supreme Council, new government. We have to give up the ridiculous, I'm telling you as an expert, a ridiculous project to build a new sarcophagus. I heard a writer in Vienna say, "That's very convenient," he says, "Europe to make this sarcophagus. Because we can always say that there is a nuclear - dangerous object in Ukraine and that there is no need to buy agricultural products because there is an object there. And what's more, this object is about creating dust, and the possible nuclear explosion doesn't happen in 20 to 30 years. So Ukraine has enough technology, enough technology to tear apart pieces, tear down and forget about this block. So they have to ask a separate question, give up a stupid project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u121	Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trubic Ukraine". Let's do it, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u122	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Hard Ukraine, Interfractional Union of Deputies of the Blackwaters. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A draft law is under consideration by the State today. But after studying this program carefully, I want to say to the cabinet officials: "People good, this is not a national program, this is, at best, information material with financial aspirations by the year 2010 of irresponsible, fortified ministries and offices that should be attached to them as performers. Next. The document does not provide specific measures for the treatment, recovery, and recovery of affected adults and children. By the way. As no other state has the power to cure and heal the victims that are not being used today. These are different sanatoriums for both adults and children. A major part of my importance to the National Programme should be the implementation of measures on "Hiddenness" that cannot be carried out without funding from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in accordance with the framework agreement between Ukraine and the Bank. We black MPs at the sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are constantly criticizing the EBRD's address for insufficient funding of this facility. Therefore, it is necessary to specify and control the introduction of them in a year’s time. Dear colleagues, the adoption of the National Program as a law should have taken place a long time ago, but unfortunately it happened that we did not give or give this important issue any attention without even creating a profile committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At present, debt on social pay is more than 720 million dollars, and no one is talking about it. Colleagues! The national program presented does not withstand any criticism, I've said a lot about it, but it can't be sent to the government today, it's going to be finished there for years. And I am grateful that the committee has taken such a heroic step that it will complete the program. It needs to be taken as a basis, worked by the committee, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, ministries, departments, departments, and areas affected by the accident. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, who still insists on the word? Yes, we also have a national MP, Matthew and Novak. Are you insisting? Matvienko, please, 1 minute. After a minute, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u124	I'll be very brief. But since I represent the 66 constituency of Korostensky, this is one of the most polluted districts, I would also like to make three remarks to the program, but in principle, I support this program. All right, first. The text of the program, in the section “Comprehension of work on minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”, provides a large number of statistics indicating a high increase in disease among those who participated in or suffered from the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. This is due to factors such as eating, working, and rest. But there is no indication that radiation pollution is the main cause of the increase in the number of diseases. The other one. The program provides for the execution of the selected tasks during 2002-2005. As the state of 1.10.02 is not accepted, the question arises: Will such a program be carried out in the anticipated volumes and deadlines? Third. It clearly determines the amount of funding needed to carry it out. As a result, the first financial coming was due in 2002. The draft text does not provide how funds allocated to the National Programme should be used in the event of incomplete funding. Moreover, it is not clear whether the financial costs associated with the implementation of the programme were agreed upon with the 2003 Ukraine Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u125	Please, National Deputy Novak. Please. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Novak, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u126	Communist faction, National MP Novak. What this program needs to do is be sure. Let us speak plainly: Ukraine as a state, and Ukrainians as a nation have remained one by one, despite all the promises of international organizations and other nations. It has to be noted that even the previous 1996-2000 program was specific, it contained amounts of funds to eliminate the consequences of an accident. But we're all witnesses: not all the money went to the Chernobyls and Chernobyl. Who was responsible for this, since specific perpetrators are known? Life shows that in Ukraine every good thing needs to be protected. What is provided in this regard in the program under discussion? It's practically nothing. Are there concrete guarantees that the funds that will be allocated to the program will go where it is needed, not in someone’s pocket? There are no guarantees. And until they're written in this program, it's just going to be good wishes on paper. That's why it has to be predicted. And one more thing. You have to add program numbers to the budget numbers. According to modest calculations, the gap between what is proposed in the program and the budget is about 200,000. The most modest calculations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u127	National Deputy Grzezhev. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, the programme could be taken as a basis, but it could not be accepted as such. I'm just one example. In this programme, a new basis for this schedule. That is, if the programme was previously based on land pollution, it is now necessary to base the dose of human exposure. If we reject the contamination of the Territory, it gives us the right to review the legal regime of those territories and means the people who live in those territories. So tomorrow will be the issue of abolishing the benefits and other conditions guaranteed by the State today. This program doesn't take that into account. Therefore, the programme cannot be adopted as such. And our committee, when it considered it, suggested that those comments should be taken into account today. If accounted for, then it will be possible to vote in favour of the programme. The Socialist Party faction will not vote in favour if the programme is not amended. And that's what I wish for.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u129	The matter has been considered and the decision will be decided on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, we must consult. The Domansky National MP insists that we discuss these three bills, the more so that two of them have a positive conclusion of the profiling committee and there are no objections. One bill to reject. I'm asking you like this. People's MP, Damansky, as head of the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee, one minute, deputy head of the Security Service, one minute, and I think we should figure out how to proceed then.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u130	Respectable comrades! It concerns three amendments to one law: articles 17, 20 and 30 of the General Military Obligation Act. First amendment. Submitted by the Turkish People's Deputy. Because we have a new concept of master, and we have a suspension from the recruitment to higher education to the addition of a third and fourth degree and a master because he was trained. That's what we're proposing to the committee is an amendment. Second amendment. Because we have a wide range of religious groups, religions. We have the concept of a confession. But some would like to introduce groups into this law. There are two believers. One is a member of the cult group. We believe that such people cannot receive stalemate. Confession. Those who truly serve a religion have religious status, have a position, may be released from service. The rest of those who form different religious groups must serve as our citizens in the Armed Forces. We propose to reject this amendment. And question three. Since the security services are of a special nature, the Government has made a number of amendments that define: 1. who has been admitted to the Security Service as entered into the contractual service, as women are defined in the educational services and have not been employed in the Security Service. How? A contract for the service of soldiers, sergeant, flagman, officers serving at the Security Service is concluded. This is the main content of those proposals relating to article 20. The National Security and Defence Committee has considered, supported and requests all of you on Thursday to support these amendments under article 17, to support, to support, at least, 17 and 30 with regard to confessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u131	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Volodya Illihu Pristajko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u132	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I have literally said a few words in support of what Honorable Anatoly Ivanovich said. I'm going to draw your attention to the fact that this is only about terminology changes. For example, the first part of article 20 says that a conscript is admitted to military training facilities. Advertisers are clearly young, that is, male. That's why there's an offer to replace the word "conspirators" with "persons," which is the law of such a technological nature, it just changes, changes the terminology of certain moments and nothing else. That is why I am very much asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-26-m1.u133	Yes, thank you. From the Ministry of Defense. We'll support it. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? So we've agreed to consider these three bills, and we'll decide on the decision in the vote and on the basis of the positions of the committee. So today we have implemented our agenda -- the agenda for the session, for which I offer my sincere thanks. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered according to Wednesday’s meeting schedule.
