ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:45]] Reported -381 There are 381 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable Colleagues, in accordance with Article 2.5.2. Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič, and let us welcome him and wish him every good thing. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. In the meantime, with your permission, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: National Deputy Simonov to Prime Minister Kinach of Ukraine for compensation for the damage caused in the Ternopil region during 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:04:25]] For 132 Decision taken. I'm asking you to take a look at the record so that the MPs can get their bearings. The record of the performance. Yes, thank you. National Deputy Simonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds according to Cabinet Order No. 551 from 19.04. In 2004 I'll bet you a vote on that request. Please vote. [[10:05:11]] For 118 Decision taken. Victor Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for immediate compensation from the Ukrainian state budget for the added value of Zacarpathian enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:38]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the activities of the Lviv State Historic Cultural Reserve. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:04]] For 133 Decision taken. Mikoli Pesocki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the economic crisis of the state holding company Luganskwogil, which resulted from the abuse of the management of holding. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:06:37]] For-90 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the efficiency of using nadr and increasing revenue to the State budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:07:04]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Andrew School to Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the change of location of the General Consulate of the Russian Federation in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:07:35]] For-74. The decision is not taken. John Vernidubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding the financing of former deported citizens in the region of Sevastopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:08:07]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The Group of Deputies- Stojko, Bondarenko, Grigorovich and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Pochayiv laur. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:36]] For 113 Decision taken. Mikoli Pisocki to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the return of debt to the Veres company in the Samsonian West mine. I'll bet you a vote on the direction, please. [[10:09:04]] For-63 For 63, no decision is taken. Vasil Onopenek to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the execution of the Ukrainian President's mandate to grant the Winnick district hospital to the Great National War of X-ray Diagnostics. I'd like to vote on the motion, please. [[10:09:35]] For-125 For - 125, the decision is made. Leukka Lukyanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine in response to the parliamentary appeal for a protest against paragraph 6 of the Ukrainian President’s decree on further measures to ensure that citizens exercise their constitutional right of appeal. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please make up your mind. [[10:10:09]] For-98 For - 98, the decision is made. John Stoyk to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration on the facts of non-recovery to the State Budget of the cost of the operation of the 1+1 television company. I'll bet you a vote on that request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:10:42]] For 113 For -113, the decision is made. The Gennady of Rudenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for violating the leadership of the national stockholder company Naftogaz Ukraine for anti-monopoly legislation and for carrying out actions aimed at limiting competition in Ukraine's gas market. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:11:16]] For-72 For -72. The decision is not taken. Thus, my fellow Members, we have not supported today the six parliamentary inquiries proposed by our colleagues. Yes, I would like to take another look at those who sign up for the performances. Deputies of the People, the faction of the Communists. Prepare Grigorovitch. Half an hour, respectable colleagues. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u2	There's a faction of communists. Dear colleagues, yesterday, 19 November, two miners, Sementsov, and Ignatovic, born in 1952, were killed in the Karl Marx mine of Enakiyev. This suggests that the lack of funding for the coal industry, where the poorer is allocated to security technology, results in such consequences. And if we vote once again for this budget of 2.5 billion, not 5.4 billion, we will be fully responsible for the death of our miners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u3	National Deputy Grigorovich. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. I have the honour to announce an event that, speaking in high style, will be written in gold letters in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, and if spoken with less patheticism, will write a worthy page in the history of Ukrainian Statehood. A parliamentary union has been formed. And I'm going to read the text under which 232 people's deputies were signed. "We, the Ukrainian National Deputies of various factions, MPs and various regions of Ukraine, based on the will of our electorate, historical truth and canonic tradition, proclaim the creation of a parliamentary union "Ukraine's Municipal Orthodox Church." [[And I'd say, of all the factions.]] The basis for this step is sound arguments. First. Most Ukrainian societies support this idea. The other one. All Orthodox peoples who have their own nations also have their own churches. Third. On the Kyiv land, the apostle Andrew the First One preached, which is already connoting the Ukrainian Orthodoxy. This step is driven by the greatness of Ancient Kiev, which has become the second Jerusalem for all Central and Eastern Europe, as well as a profound understanding of the purposefulness, the timely realization of this great spiritual and social need of our people. There is a God. There's Ukraine. That's why the local Orthodox Church in Ukraine is here. Dear colleagues, today I want to pay great honor and thanks to the Ukrainian Parliament. The MPs are already active in the three vocations. The second was 96 national deputies, the third was 126, today was 232. Think about what the figure is. I stopped at the signing congregations and all of us, but I'm sure this number could be bigger. It testifies to the high civil position, the high moral, spiritual quality of our deputies, and therefore I have firm conviction in our wise decisions and the formation of, indeed, the true majority. And finally. Honourable national MPs, since the sum of the squares of the two executioners is equal to the square of the hypotenuse, just as in Ukraine, the Ukrainian State should have a local Orthodox Church. And I thank the Ukrainian Parliament again today for such a wise governmental and moral decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u5	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Turkinov National Deputies, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u6	Alexander Turchinov, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Please give the floor to one of the best representatives of our faction, the leader of the Ukrainian Republican Party, Sobor Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u7	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor". Tomorrow on the day of the vote, there are two key issues to which attention will be paid not only to us in Ukraine but also far beyond it. The first problem is the 2003 budget vote on second reading. Because tomorrow's procedure does not provide for a discussion on this issue, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko has instructed me to comment on our position. First. We call for support to the budget committee's draft, which envisions an increase in income, and then the expenditure portion, according to the government's 1.2 billion dollars. And to vote only on these articles, and to transfer the article's expenses to third reading, but with the guarantee of a substantial increase in funding for children, education, science, medicine, socially vulnerable populations. Also support transfers to support local budgets by 1 billion. In addition, the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs and especially the Special Criminal Unit and the Cabinet of Ministers have proposed a 30 - percent reduction in the funding of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Administration, the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, in particular, a 50 - percent increase in the budget, a further 1.8 billion dollars and a referral to children, health care, education, and science. In addition, the faction believes that courts in Ukraine will never be independent until they have adequate financial support. Thus, our bloc proposes to provide for the channelling of funds that support the judicial system and, in particular, the judicial congregations, in addition to strengthening the material base. And question two. It's on its own. This is a vote in favour of the Prime Minister. If we, the honourable deputies, have at least the fragile consciences and morals that we often know and speak well of, then tomorrow we have to deal with you in such a way as not only to dishonor the Supreme Council but also the whole of Ukraine. The Council's O.R.P. took the initiative to establish a black book of betrayal in Ukraine, to create a public commission with moral authority such as Sverstuk, Lena Kostenko, Juba and the commission's decision to bring the names of the traitors to this book. I'm going to the MPs, "Let's stop." I'm going to the voters, "Stop your deputies from being betrayed." We cannot vote in favour of the nomination tomorrow. If the Lord God has left one person’s mind and sanity, we have no right to demonstrate that he has abandoned his mind and sanity, at least 226 national deputies. That's what we're thinking about for our national responsibility, because we're the people's chosen. And we will not disgrace Ukraine or the people from whom we are represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u9	People's deputy Kenzior. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u10	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Tomorrow we have a vote, and I ask both of you, Head of the Supreme Council, and all of you, to be included in the list of issues that will be discussed tomorrow on the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry to review the activities of the Lviv Tax Administration. Now Lviv has a famous commission of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and a commission set up by the District Council. But on our information, we can say that these two commissions alone will stand largely and try not to stain "honour uniform," the other one will not have the possibilities that the deputy investigating commission of the Supreme Council would have. Much has already been said about this situation in Lviv, and it has been written very much, and it is indeed the case that the younger brother of the head of the Ukraine’s Administration, Sergey Medvedchuk, is in charge. To the knowledge of the MPs as to the seriousness of the situation in the City District, where Sergey Medvedchuk was elected deputy district council member, the District Election Commission took a decision and registered an initiative group after the recall of Sergey Medvedchuk of district council deputies. So if we really want to bring the Lviv region into order, if we want to calm the area somehow and consolidate all the efforts of the area and the political forces to solve the economic and social problems we need to get rid of in Lviv of a leader that destabilizes the situation. We've already talked about this tax racket, about tax reprisals against business representatives who are either part of certain political parties that are not in power today in existing power or standing in opposition. So I'm turning to our faction, from the Party Group of the People's Movement of Ukraine tomorrow to realize this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u11	The Pavlovsky People's Dept., faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for the Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u12	Pavlova faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Party of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, journalists, I want to draw attention to just one question that opens the way for Ukraine to choose Europe. The point is that we should not just declare what we want, we should come in, we should say what we need. Three conditions or three parameters must be met in order to join the European Union. We should have a European level of democracy, we should have a European level of technology and production, and we should have a European level of well-being for the population. So in order for all of these three parameters to be implemented, the most important thing is that we need to have an innovation process in our state. I'm stressing this because both the Security Council and the President are all saying, "Innovative process." Even the former prime minister of the evening presents the monograph along with academic Seminochek and Heich on the innovation process, and in the morning comes the Mineconomy and represents the law that prohibits the innovation process in the state. And if you look now, the government has already resigned, its achievements, from the point of view of the innovation process, no achievements. A total of 45 million dollars was allocated to programs and capital investments, that's 0.03 percent, and at least 10-20 percent. Hundreds of times less! No serious program was financed. Today, they're talking about mines, explosions, tragedies. So, I want to point out that it was in Ukraine that the mine degassing technology was developed, but it wasn't implemented in Ukraine, it was introduced in the United States of America and other countries. So if in the United States, in order to extract 100 million tons of coal, 3 coal miners die, in Britain, 6, then in Ukraine, 52. Here's the ratio. It doesn't take much money, it takes will and care for people, not your pockets. And that's why Julia Timoshenko put it on her feet. She, of course, removed 10 billion dollars from the oligarchs, sent it to the budget. They can’t forgive her until now. But we must remember: there are funds in Ukraine! We need a state development strategy, we need to take care of people, we need a state, not a clan, so I call on everyone -- let's make the right conclusions and national interests over everything. And we must adopt the bill proposed by the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, the principles of Ukraine's national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u13	Thank you. National Deputy Ostrash, prepare for Verethennikov. The rest, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u14	Dear fellow MPs! We talked a lot yesterday about the problems of education, and I would also like to draw your attention to the problems of vocational education. In my district -- in Kodor, in Jidachev, in Strimi, in Midanich, I met with the workers of the trade, and they asked me to say 700,000. Professors, employees of the Association of Occupational Health Workers have been asked to bring to the attention of the National Deputies that, as of 18 August this year, the government, contrary to the 2002 Budget Act, does not finance electricity consumption, utility services, student feeding, has a place of delay in the scholarship of school students. More than 61 million have not been added to these targets. That's right. In addition, in the past year, debts have been added to an amount of 46 million. That's right. In the system of vocational education, only, in fact, people who are obsessed with very low wages remain conscientiously employed. And they sincerely believe that their problems will be solved both by the Supreme Council, both the President and the Government. The heads of the trade unions are always reflected in the truths and lies of the archenegro, the archepenergo, the archepinecanal, the other controlling organizations, and one is unfortunately unable to cope. In the country today, 96 schools have already been opened from the current, 465 more schools have been warned about destructuring, including my city of Strija, and a large number of wedlocks, i.e. students are under cold conditions. I have also met with educators who are still asking to provide full funding to the education sector in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2003 in terms of the scope set out in the Ukrainian Education Act, i.e. the increase in the average wages of employees. And they also require the adoption of a law on the recognition of public debt for unpaid payments to workers in the period 97-2001, as defined by the Ukrainian Education Act. And now I'm asking you to pass on the minute that's left, Deputy Durres.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u15	Please, Ivan Fedorovich Durres, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u16	Ivan Durres, "Our Ukraine", Movement. "A statement by the party group of the Ukrainian People's Movement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine." This autumn is 70 years old from the beginning of one of the greatest crimes in human history -- the artificial famine in Ukraine, 32-33 years old. A comprehensive analysis of the socioeconomic and political causes of famine showed that it was an act of genocide. The comprehensive concept of genocide in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes of Genocide is any conscious action aimed at the total or partial extermination of a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. Today, this terrible crime has been committed by directors such as Stalin, Molotov, Kaganovich, Postushev, and revealed. The main blow was directed at the Ukrainian village. The percentage of Ukraine in the cities was then small. If 33 percent of Ukrainian crops were collected in the 30th year, 42 in the 31st year and 42 in the 32nd year when the famine started, 50 percent of the crops were taken. Since it was not possible to do so, the law prohibiting the storage of seed stocks entered into force, pending the execution of the government’s plan. Thus, the cologne and private chambers were cleaned up to the last grain, and under the form of a fine, all other food was confiscated, the colporteurs were suspended from the field of grain at work, and the trade in grain in the markets was prohibited. Grains and vegetables were often rotten when transported, but these piles were protected by an armed watchtower to prevent hungry people from taking advantage of this rot. Under this five - wheeled law, as the villagers called it, several peasants on the field were sentenced to execution or a ten - year execution. The Dnipropetrov region was sentenced to 8,000 prior to the shooting, and 9,000 people were imprisoned on Winnitzkin, and 24 were sentenced on Donbassa by decree of August 7, 1932. If this is on average taken across Ukraine, the 65,000 villagers shot to death during the six months of the decree. Before the collapse of the Soviet Union, not only the effects of famine but also the very fact of its fulfillment were severely silenced. So let us mention these millions of victims of the criminal regime on the day of the victims of famine and political repression with a sad prayer, a lit candle at the end of the window, a minute of silence declared on radio and television, and let us do our utmost to ensure that the Ukrainian State is truly democratic and able to protect every citizen and entire Ukrainian people. Head of the Ukrainian People's Movement Yuri Kostenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u17	The People's Deputies of Veretennikov, the faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine. Prepare the Teeth. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A colleague of ours is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with such a request. Tomorrow we're going to vote for the budget, and here I am, the deputy mayor of Dnipropetrovska, and I think that each of us applies to this question. I have 40 schools in the district. And I went to every school. We have such poverty today! And we, Ukraine, are approaching Europe. Our students, when they graduate from school, are not able to work on computers. We've accepted with you, we offer to accept tomorrow, the government has offered 4.5 million in this class to get equipment to computer classes. It's for rural schools. We offered 150 million. I think we need 300 million to do that. This is our future, our children. They need to know what the whole world knows today, and today they do not have that possibility. Not only in rural areas but also in urban areas. Because where there are some colleges where rich children can learn, there are, and in public schools there is no such thing. So you are asked to support the 154 million who will go to the budget to equip computer classes in each school in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u19	Zubov People's Deputy, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Lukyanka. No teeth?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u20	Yes. Respectable colleagues. Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko faction. I ask you to pass the word to Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u21	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u22	I went out to announce a statement by the parliamentary factions and the political Socialist Party of Ukraine in connection with the 70th anniversary of the famine of 1932-1933. In these days, mourning measures have begun in Ukraine, linked to 70 years of famine in 1932-1933. Hunger has taken the lives of millions of Ukrainians, has caused irreversible demographic, moral, social, political cataclysms that are brutally echoing in our day, and will continue to be bitter in future generations. It is worthy of the deep regret and circumstance that the famine in Ukraine has gone through with the hair of death, as if under the flag of socialist transformations in the country and in the state. In fact, it was the outpouring of the betrayal of socialist ideals by the leadership of the country, the then existing regime of power, the criminal Stalin core of central and local personnel, the bloody economic social experiments with the acceleration of collectiveization, the destruction of Ukrainian village life, the ignorance of peasant psychology, the disregard for the laws of the economy, human rights and freedoms under dictatorship. In a deep mourning, the Socialist Party of Ukraine is bending its flags against the memory of the victims of the famine in Ukraine, as well as in the black - earthed areas of Russia, Cuba, the Conquest and Kazakhstan, condemning the inhumane essence of Stalin, which has led to a tragedy that can only be compared to the death of millions of people during the war years. Ukrainian Socialists propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address the United Nations Organization of UNESCO, to recognize the famine in Ukraine as a national catastrophe on a planetary scale, as a lesson in warning mankind against the recurrence of genocide by reaction regimes, by structural terrorism and by political and economic groupings. The Holocaust in Ukraine is to be a strong warning to dictatorial authoritarian regimes in their quest for a rematch and an alternative to democracy. It is our sacred duty to generations of Ukrainians who have been crushed by cruel famine. At the same time, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and its parliamentary faction turn to the authorities and all political forces to show restraint, sobriety and reasonableness and not to use the tragic events of famine for national strife in Ukraine today. It is unacceptable to impose hostility and to tolerate hatred for the famine on the political forces that are now in force in Ukraine. We also believe that carrying out the tragic measures of famine in the 1930s should not distract society from the destructive processes that are taking place in the Ukrainian village, in the economy of the state, and which can cause a new tragedy and have already caused unprecedented poverty. The harsh truth of famine should be a warning to responsible politicians against criminal experiments in politics, economics, social spheres, it should remind us, as a bell of memory, that history does not forgive political, economic adventures that strike peoples and individuals alike. Before we remember the victims of the famine, we will gather together to conquer forces, truth, and democracy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u23	National MP Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko Prepare Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u24	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. I would like to draw attention to the respectful meeting of the human resources policy of our President. Because in this human resources policy and in the very composition of the Supreme Council, there is an answer to why Ukraine is in that state. The president awarded the head of the Bahamas District Administration of the Tolmacheva Region to Boris Andriyovich as a state order in September 2002 for a significant personal contribution to the social, economic development of the region and the region. This is the formula. And these are: the decline in industrial production by 51.2 percent compared to last year. Now we're offered Yanukovic, a famous man who's been convicted twice, who's run elections in his own area in such a way that even bigger violations can't be allowed and can't be imagined at all. What principles are governed by our President? And what authorities govern Ukraine? Who led Ukraine to the fact that our teachers were literally hungry? I was taking my granddaughter to school, and there the teacher gets a salary of 167 dollars, minus tax -- and 135 dollars she gets on her own. How can you live on 135 bracelets?Oh, my God! Teachers leave school. They're missing. There's no one to lead the objects. And that's what we have in medicine and the same in the army. Funding is not enough. You think there's no money in Ukraine? There's money in Ukraine! And this is evidenced by the composition of the Supreme Council last time, then 262 deputies voted in favour of preserving the shadow economy. When Yushchenko tried to get the economy out of the shadows, the deputies removed Yushchenko and voted in favour of preserving the shadow economy. We have about the same amount of money in the shadow economy as in the budget. So the whole point is that national wealth is unfairly distributed. This injustice is a powdery barrel that can destroy our entire society. I would like to encourage honourable deputies, many of whom depend on them to approach our society more fairly. Because of their pockets, they turn 40 billion dollars, and if these 40 billion dollars were put to transparent financial calculations, our budget would increase, and then we could pay teachers, and armies, and doctors, all the less decently paid wages, and in society, at least a little bit more justice. Under conditions like this, I support the idea of creating the Black Book of Traitors, those are the people who are acting to the detriment of our Ukraine and leading us to a catastrophe that can express itself in some new civil war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u25	National MP Suškević, faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A statement by the faction of Ukrainian and Ukrainian industrialists and Labour Ukraine. In connection with the second reading of the Ukrainian National Budget 20003 bill, the faction expresses great concern about the social protection rules and regulations laid down in the draft. In particular, in the 2003 budget, almost all social protection and rehabilitation expenditures have been reduced compared to the previous year. In particular, by 15 and a half million reduced spending on the Social Protection Fund, 7.8 million dollars reduced spending on support for the Parisian movement, physical sports rehabilitation of disabled people, and their preparation for world and European startups. In view of the overall increase in the budget for the following year in comparison with the previous year of 2002, by 288.7 million dollars, the above - mentioned reduction in social security expenditure raises considerable doubt that the actual social orientation of the 2003 budget. Let us note that for the first time in five years, the government and the budget committee in the draft budget have been reducing the cost of addressing the social problems of people with disabilities. That's the first one. And this is in the face of catastrophic underfunding of the current budget for social support for people with disabilities. In the next year’s draft budget, the article on social protection for persons with disabilities is again unprotected. In the current year, this has led to less than 40 percent of the programmes funded by the Social Protection Fund approved in 2002. Thousands and tens of thousands of disabled persons have been deprived of adequate legal guarantees of health care. No financial compensation is paid to disabled persons, no one - time material assistance is provided. Due to the suspension of state prosthetic businesses, serious problems have arisen with the provision of prosthetic and orthopaedic products, wheelchairs, means of movement and rehabilitation. The proposed 2003 budget does not solve the above-mentioned problems, but it drives them into a dead end of financial incapacity. Apathy in relation to persons with limited physical capacity in the budget next year may result in social disruptions in the environment of people with disabilities, and in our country nearly 3 million. This, in view of the Council of Europe’s special attention to solving the problems of disabled people, which it announced, respected colleagues, has declared 2003 a European year of people with disabilities. The faction clearly realizes that the budget as a state plan for the formation and use of financial resources must be adopted within the terms set out in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. The budgetary process should not stop. And we're going to vote in favour of adopting its core global income and expenditure indicators, but only on the condition that the social costs of the budget are returned and reconsidered, with the aim of increasing them, of finding sources of funding for state programmes for the social protection of persons with disabilities and the underprivileged, provided they are recognised as protected social protection costs for persons with disabilities. Without this, the faction will not have sufficient moral and social grounds to support the budget in its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. I ask the Secretariat for the problems that have been solved here to prepare appropriate letters, appropriate instructions to the central executive authorities. Dear colleagues, you have a schedule for today's session. I would like to say that we started a good tradition yesterday because we practically completed the meeting schedule for Tuesday. So I would suggest that I do the same work today to consolidate this success, and at 12 o'clock, if you don't mind, don't take a break from doing the program of our work. You are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on the calculation of pensions and post-retirement benefits. The profile committee proposes the following rules: for the report - by 5, the answers to the questions - by 5 minutes, the report - by 5 minutes and 5 minutes, respectively, the discussion - 10 minutes. No objections? Out of the Matthews procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u28	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have this proposal: two bills, they are basically intertwined. Let us build as follows: first, let us hear reports on these bills, and at the same time discuss them. We're going to save time and that's what we're going to say, productive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, no objection? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u30	You don't? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u31	Well, since there's a denial, we'll work according to the rules. Please, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Helen Vasilevna Garjača. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u32	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is brought to your attention by a bill proposing to grant our fellow countrymen the right to retire later on a voluntary basis, to receive a pension from a later period, increased by 10 percent in every such year. This allows citizens to choose the right to receive a higher pension. This right in Soviet times was exercised by our fellow countrymen, and today they receive not 150 dollars of pension but 200 dollars. This is possible at the expense of the Pension Fund in the future to receive a higher pension. The second position is suggested in the bill -- to calculate the salary pension not in the last 24 months, as it is today, and which will lead to artificial excesses in the size of the pension and the leveling of the employment contribution. To make this period gradually increase by one year each year after the introduction of this law, and data on the wages of taking, not by reference, but by personalized calculation, which is now in operation at the Pension Fund. And then our citizens will be able to retire without submitting supporting documents to the Pension Fund. All this information in the Pension Fund is being stored today. And another position. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that the pension be calculated from the income from which the contributions are paid. Today, contributions are paid from one amount of income, and the pension is earmarked from a higher amount. This puts additional strain on those who work long hours and pay contributions in good faith to the Pension Fund. As a result of the redistribution, individual categories of pensioners have higher pension sizes because they calculate the pension from a higher salary than they pay the premiums. You know, today's premiums are paid off by the salary of 2,200 dollars, and we're assigning a pension of 6,000 dollars. That's why we're offering this mechanism to ensure a socially fair approach. Ladies and gentlemen, our committee, the Committee on Veterans and Pensioners and the Committee on Social Policy supported this bill, and we worked with the people's deputies. The Scientific and Expert Department has made a number of observations that the government believes can be taken into account in the drafting of the draft for second reading. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill. It was written in such a context to comply with the draft pension reform bill adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u33	Please sign up for the question. Please sign up. We have one procedure, it is defined by the Rules. Light up, please. Candlestick.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u34	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Helen Vasilovna, tell me, how does this bill take into account the fact that young people cannot get a job at the level of fairly high unemployment? And the second question. The average monthly pension income is calculated by 60 of any kind, there, in months and since July 1, 2000. Can't you put "or for the July 1, 2002 period"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have about 22 million people working in Ukraine who are busy in the field of economics. Of just 2 million, they're working pensioners. The percentage, as you know, is 10 percent to the total number of workers. We analyzed where our citizens, the elderly, were occupied. It's at work, mostly in agriculture, in industry, they're extracting coal, even after they've worked 10 years underground; it's teachers, it's mostly metallurgy and industrially busy. They work in jobs that are not attractive to young people. And I think we should have a vet, and I think you're going to support that, and another approach. The person who's 60 years old, that's, we're going to talk like a library of knowledge. Her experience, this man, we must use. And you don't have to talk about the fact that a professor can't benefit from science at the age of 60, just like he can in other fields. In your opinion, we have foreseen that only four years of retirement can benefit from this possibility, that is to say, we have restricted it. As for your second question. This is, in fact, when the second reading bill is being finalized, we could take this proposal into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u36	Sokirko Mikola Vasilovich. Next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u37	Deputy Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u38	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Our position is to support you and Mr. Sokirko. But that's the question. You're proposing a change only to article 21 of the law. And that's what makes you look like you don't understand, and now our voters are waiting, and what about the Law on Approval of the Life Minimum for 2002 that we passed with you. And on the other hand, you know, there's another article, article 19 states that the minimum age pension size is the minimum consumer budget, but not below the low level. How can we be here with you like that? from this situation that the government is making a look, and in this case, you and Elena Vasilyvna are pretending that you don't understand what this is about, and you're saying that we have this kind of charity that we're doing so seriously. So that's the question we'd like to ask you and Deputy Sokirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u40	Thank you. The government and the Supreme Council have done much to increase their pension in the last two years. And really, the pension went up by 50 percent. But the average pension is still pretty low. And of course, the pension does not reach even half the minimum of living today. The positions proposed by the government are aimed at improving pension insurance right in part of the social justice distribution of the pension fund. And of course, by adopting this law alone, we will not solve the problems of pensioners. These are problems and the adoption of the 2003 budget and the adoption of a new pension law. And only in the complex can we solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u41	Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Helen Vasilovna, indeed, the essence of the bill is to improve the social protection of the retirement age axis by giving them the opportunity to get a bigger pension. Yet I have such a question for you. Part 5 of article 19 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act clearly defines the maximum pension rate, so we might want to amend this law so that there is not this maximum pension level, and that there is no minimum pension or elimination of this provision on the maximum pension level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! Today, a very constructive work is being done in the Committees for Veterans and Pensioners to supplement the first reading of the Law on the Universal State Pension Insurance for Second Reading. As part of that bill, options are being considered for lifting the limits of the maximum pension. Unfortunately, today we cannot make this decision under the law in force. But I'll do it again. For those of you who will work on the conditions that are proposed in the new edition of article 21, the pension will be a maximum of not 150 dollars, but 200 dollars. This is the first step towards differentiation of the maximum pension. And I want to inform you that, along with the Supreme Council, the government has taken steps to increase pensions for miners. Today we can talk about that those who have worked underground for a long time will receive a pension of 268 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u44	Helen Vasilovna, thank you. Please, just sit tight. The head of the committee's subcommittee on pensioners, veterans and invalids, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! The Committee, having considered the draft law, considered it to be systemic to date and therefore, on the basis of that logic, the Committee supported the proposal. In more detail, a few nuances can be noted. First. To date, it is proposed that working pensioners who today make contributions to the Pension Fund be given an opportunity to increase their own pension. An increase of 10 per cent per year is already in place today because those pensioners who have left since the Soviet authorities have been granted that right. The current pensioners, even though they work, have no effect on their pension. Therefore, we believe that the mechanism for increasing pensions for those working as pensioners today is socially fair. Little is recommended for this proposal, I would say desirable for the pensioner who wants to work. If a person wishes to do so, he should be able to increase his pension by contributing to the Pension Fund. I would stress that the Committee agrees with this position. We propose to support her. Next moment. We believe that, to date, there is a need for and this is part of the overall pension adjustment strategy for an increase in the duration of the Pension Fund in order to influence the appointment of the pension. Today, we are seeing a trend in pension equivalency and it is therefore proposed to amend the 65th article of the Act, namely, to take into account the average monthly salary for the longer term. To further ensure that the entire period of work, the entire period when a person paid contributions to the Pension Fund, is taken into account in the accrual of the pension. We therefore believe that this is also fair: the contribution of a person to his future pension must be adequate to the pension he receives. However, a new mechanism is proposed. In particular, it is proposed that earnings for the period up to July 2000 be taken into account on the basis of accrued wages. In view of the fact that there is a personalized record in the pension fund since 1 July 2000, data for this period should continue to be collected only from the personalized account base, which is more objective than any documents offered by a person. Forming his pension. The Committee therefore agrees with this position in general. Article 66 of the bill provides that pension benefits, and this also exists today as a problem, will only be credited to those amounts that are listed and accounted for by the Pension Fund in the personalized accounting system. And second moment. Based on this logic, the person who receives a pension on his accrual will take into account all payments to the pension fund. Not only alone, not only his main earnings, not only the main venue, but all. However, this will enable us to solve another problem. To date, there are limitations, the essence of which is that the pension fund is charged irrespective of the amount of earnings, not more than 2,000,200 bracelets. And it turns out that contributions to the Pension Fund are not made out of more than 2,000,200 bracelets, but pension documents are provided on the basis of a calculation, and this also exists, more earnings. So from that point on, I want to end up where I started. The Committee, while appreciating this as systemic changes that lead to a more socially equitable definition and incentive for pensions, supported this proposal, which I ask and do to our Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Is it? Please sign up. Lighten up. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u47	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Pavlovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u48	Turn on the microphone of Pavlovsky Mikhail Antonovich. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, I have such a question. You and Helen Vasilovna make such an interesting point. So on a smaller amount, we're subtracting and reducing it accordingly, and then we're limiting this pension. On the contrary, it may be possible to count all kinds of legalized earnings into the Pension Fund and not limit that pension. Because there's a nice idea that you work after retirement and then you get more, but not long, it works, too, because the average life expectancy in Ukraine today is 56 men, and once it reaches 65, statistically very little will get a pension. So here's an interesting logic: we work against people. So you need these restrictions -- article 19, how do you react to remove and extend this limit, which is counted, and accordingly not to impose any limits on the amount of the pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u50	My dear colleague, I am absolutely in agreement with you that all contributions to the Pension Fund must be taken into account in order to charge the pension. That is, a person can work in several places, and if contributions are made, this should also affect the amount of his pension. As far as the ceiling of the pension is concerned, well, to date, I think I'm going to say it that way, I don't think it's today's topic, because we need to first solve the problem of replenishing the Pension Fund. We will talk about this and, unfortunately, so far a number of bills are still in work. If we bring them in and expand the income base of the Pension Fund, then I think you're absolutely right to ask the question that the ceiling is nonsense. I'm in solidarity with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u51	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u52	Dear Vassil Ivanovich! Dear Hennady Andriyovich! The merger of the two bills passed with the agreement of Vladimir Mikhailovich, I believe it is hasty. These are two different bills. So I ask that you discuss two bills, of course everyone, because it is impossible to unify these two bills. With this question to you, Vasil Ivanovich. Please tell us, how do you expect in article 66 to calculate pensions for peasants, where it is unclear today: Who have the wages of brothers, to whom to sell, to do what? Indefinition in the country is the millions of pensioners who are in the village today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u53	I couldn't agree more. And in this topic, I think that one of the algorithms for solving this problem may be that only one wage in the village has to be paid in the same way as it is paid in the city. That is, there is a concept of salary and related accruals to the Pension Fund. Because if rural pensioners today receive 10 per cent of the amounts needed to pay the current pension, that is, it is insane. Unfortunately, today, with the introduction of a fixed agricultural science, the system of individual contributions of a person to his future pension has been completely destroyed. And here I am with you in solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u54	Nosenko Mikola Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u55	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to Deputy Leschenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u56	Turn on the mic of Lechchenk Vladimir Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u57	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vassil Ivanovich, you said that this bill provides for the further payment of pensions according to only a personalized calculation. How can it be that by July 1, 2000, people who are retired have not worked since July 1, 2000, because they are unemployed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u58	The main idea and main proposal was: the contribution to the Pension Fund was the contribution of the person to his future pension. And if, after 1 July 2000, a person has not contributed to the Pension Fund, he has the right to rely on the social pension that the State pays him from Gosbudget. If a person worked and paid before 1 July 2000, a person would be provided with the relevant documents under the bill, the same certificates that exist today would be accrued to him. I said that only after July 2000 if there were no data in the personal accounting system did the person contribute to the Pension Fund to his pension, respectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u59	Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u60	Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Your Honor, I have a question for you: you support, in fact, a framework law, and you don't hide it. I'd like to ask you this: And then what's the content of creating a law-abiding approach to a person, or a personalized account, that will be in the insurance system, if part 2 is allowed in article 65, that if there is no such information, it will be possible to use the documents in an orderly manner. That's the first question. And the second question, as you are, your committee is generally referring to the requirement of Article 19 of the Pension Insurance Act as to what cannot be lower than the subsistence minimum, here is 268 dollars of pension. How does the committee plan to strategically identify this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u61	On the first question. This reservation on the old mechanism after the first of July 2000 to form a pension on the basis of documents assumes that this is, rather, a temporary measure, because the establishment of a personalized accounting system in the Pension Fund system is, so to speak, a sufficiently dynamic situation, and we expect that in a year or two we will bring this topic to the fore, I stress, absolutely objective data. Now, at the end of the issue of subsistence minimum, as a measure of the size of the pension. In general, the Committee believes that this should be the case, and we strategically provide that we will address this subject through a large pension security law that our committee is working on, well, in a literal sense, from the second week following the election of the Supreme Council. So far, I think we've written this bill by 80 percent, and I think we're going to finish it and go out to this room with a second reading. This will be a strategic decision on the compatibility of the pension with the subsistence minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, respected colleagues of Laws 1375 and 1016, they agree with each other, and nothing prevents us from discussing them together. The word is given to Zibenk by Peter Stepanovich. Draft Act on Amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, on the size and indexation of minimum employment pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Member of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. I am delighted to address the electorate today because I want as many of them as possible to hear our conversation today on the subject of this law. We've finally come to a long-awaited, long-awaited change, the basic law, the Pension Insurance Act. In Ukraine some 14 million pensioners, some 90 percent of whom receive their pensions on the basis of the Pension Insurance Act. I probably won't be wrong to say that the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens, these Ukrainian citizens who receive pensions on the basis of this very law, are not satisfied with the level of their pension. This, by the way, is evidence of numerous appeals to the committee, numerous statements made by the voters of Ukraine, with whom I hold meetings as the head of the committee. And in this, you're obviously convinced, in any case, that part of the MP Corps that's hosting citizens, because you're absolutely convinced that 70 to 80 percent of all references are a reference to this particular problem. More disgrace than the level of pension insurance, which comes out of the minimum pension of 47 dollars 30 copies, and it's taken as a calculated amount when calculating all pensions, probably in Ukraine to come up with a very difficult idea. And that's what we see when we meet our citizens. You have to remember that today, given the level of minimum pension that there is, there's a so-called minimum payout, because we all realize that at that level is 47 dollars 30 dollars -- today, it's virtually impossible for a person to survive. And that's why we have the notion of a minimum payoff of 86 dollars of 90 dollars, so once again, we're stressing that a minimum pension doesn't even provide minimum survival. That's why I introduced this bill. By the way, we all remember the statement by the President of Ukraine on August 23, 2002, the day before Independence Day, where he emphasized what he considered to be one of the closest and most difficult tasks and the most important tasks of at least doubling the minimum pension. You know, there's a difference between the MP Corps and this statement. I want to hope that the President made this statement knowingly, and sincerely wishing for a better fate for the people of Ukraine. Thus, through the adoption of this law, we could help the President fulfill his promises. There are two ways to solve this problem. Way one. Remove the upper limit, the upper ceiling of the maximum pension in Ukraine. We'll be back on Thursday before the veto vote on this issue. But I realize it's going to be very, very difficult. This mechanism is less expensive, but it's even less efficient because it will touch a smaller part of the electorate. There's another mechanism. Increase in the minimum pension size. That's what I'm proposing today. Because of this mechanism, it's more expensive, but it's more effective in terms of the ability to increase pensions for our citizens. What is provided for by this law? First. Twice a year, counting pensions, increasing them, rising the average wage in the economy, and increasing them by 100 percent of the inflation rate that took place in the previous period. The second task that is decided by this law. Increase the minimum pension to 70 dollars. Today it is, once again, $47.30 apiece. And the third purpose of this law. This is the execution of a decision by the Constitutional Court, which insists that a minimum pension should be established by the law of Ukraine, i.e. the Supreme Council, and not by regulations, as is done today. So I am absolutely convinced that today's review of this document and tomorrow's vote will show how conscious the candidates' statements were when they went to the elections, to support their most disadvantaged voters, and what is the position of the deputy corps today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u64	Please sign up for questions. If you've checked in, check it out. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Peter Stepanovich, I didn't mean to ask questions. But you've touched on a very interesting subject -- the vote will tell you who the patriot is. I've already gone to this rostrum twice, where you're standing, twice reported the People's Money Income Index Act. Your law has an indexation character, it increases. Twice, your faction, including you personally, did not vote in favour of the Index Act, and I do not know for what reasons. I have a question for you. I don't want to ask about your faction, are you personally going to vote for your bill or are you going to have another principle position?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u66	I'd like to remind you, and I'd like to ask you not to cross the facts, because this is about the fact that the faction didn't vote by law, and it didn't vote in a particular situation. And we don't need to get into the situation, understand what we're talking about. As far as the meaningful part of your question is concerned, I would like to say that I obviously didn't submit this bill if I wasn't convinced that I was personally and a faction of Communists didn't support it. Of course, I'll support him. Moreover, I will insist that he be supported by the deputies and by yours, including the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u67	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u68	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine As far as this bill is concerned. I have a question like that for me. Please state the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. I emphasize that you have also talked about how the government can't make a single decision without Parliament's consent to increase the pension. How are you, can you argue? Are we going to vote, or are we going to be in favour of the government bills they're proposing on pension or pension? I think today it's speculation in front of its own people, because raising by 5 dollars, by 10 dollars a pension is equivalent to not doing anything for its own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u69	Well, thank you for asking. I think that the Science and Experimental Authority stresses, first of all, not that the government can't, but a minimum pension must be established by law, not by other legislation. [[He can do it.]] As far as voting on government documents is concerned, I don't want us to take this position in advance today: either we vote for everyone or we don't vote for everyone. Depending on the content of the law, we will determine how we act in each particular situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u70	National Deputy Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Peter Stepanovich, surely I thank you for your civil position. I'm here for your bill. But I have a question. In order to move from declarations to the practical implementation of this law, calculations are needed, because this is a budget issue, and the Budget Code says that we can do anything that relates to the increase in the expenditure portion of budgets that can be applied not earlier than the start of the budget period. I mean, it all affects the formation of the spending part, you know, you're very well aware of that. How much this bill costs, I'd like to understand, and how practical it is to actually get the pension rate closer to.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u72	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u73	The amount to be reported is 268 dollars, which is a minimum of living quarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, I would like to say that, depending on when this law is passed, we will also be determined by the deadline for its implementation. I realize that even if it was adopted in December 2003, it will not work. But I think you and I understand that decisions need to be made. As to how much this law will cost. According to calculations that I can't agree with in some part of it, but I call that figure called the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it's called about 11 billion dollars. I'd like to say that the calculations that I've been asked to make, they show that already in 2003, when we have adopted a paper with us on the increase in the minimum wage of 270 dollars, and this document will be voted tomorrow, only this standard can give up to 3 billion additional revenue to the Pension Fund budget. 1.8 billion can give rise to gross domestic product 1 billion should restore the state budget to the pension fund's budget for delimitation, which is not budgeted in 2003. About 3.7 billion can give the introduction of a state monopoly to the production and implementation of liquor and tobacco products, and if we add a state monopoly to external trade, all of this will be put out to ensure the implementation of this law. But most importantly, we have to show political will to make a similar decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u77	Correspondent is head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Please, Vasil Ivanovich. All right, we'll do that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Persons with Disabilities and Veterans considered the matter in general of two components. First. To date, no one in the committee is trying to claim that the pension may somehow satisfy pensioners. That's impossible. And so far, when we talked about how the author proposes to launch the indexation mechanism and, accordingly, increase pensions, there was no discussion on the subject in the Committee. The only problem to date that has not been supported and why it has not been found is that the financial component proposed and considered by the Committee itself and the relevant agencies, and primarily by the Pension Fund, is that there is no resource to date. The main and, to a large extent, is that the pension fund charges are the only principal source of financial income. Therefore, today, when we discuss this law, we must have one answer for ourselves: it is fundamental and, above all, economical. Because today, if we raise pensions under this law, on this proposal, we will again find ourselves in debt of pensions. And in all the conversations that we want to make people better, we won't even be able to make that little penny pension on a regular basis. It is a shame to give up the pension that the pensioner receives today, but we in the committee felt that it was even more embarrassing when we could not even give it up monthly. Therefore, based on this logic, I am sorry, the Committee has adopted arguments on the economic elements that do not allow us to give a positive opinion today. However, the Committee suggests that the projects currently in the Supreme Council should be dealt with as quickly as possible, this is a draft law on certain matters of payment of compulsory State insurance. Regulates the issue of the expansion of the siege base. The amendments to the Act on Fixed Agricultural Science and a number of others, which will enable the Fund to increase its income in the first place, because the Fund's fund's fund's fund-raising capacity is the only basis for the pension mechanism. Next moment. To date, with all the negatives that exist on this subject, but the overall increase in pensions after the repayment of debts by 62 per cent and only this year by 20 per cent, in this case, we on the committee have said that it is unscrupulous to increase, in principle, that the money that goes to the Pension Fund goes to pension payments. And what the Pension Fund has examined in the past two years has checked the Minfina KAU, there are no serious claims to the Pension Fund on this subject, and you and I need to look at one resource that comes into the Pension Fund as a basis for the appointment of pensions. To date, the 86 bracelets mentioned here by the rapporteur are not money, but, again, the main decision of the committee was one-86 per month, at least a small one. But 150 and every three months, it's no good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, questions to a co-conspirator? Please sign up if there is. Please give the name list on the board. National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u80	Dear reporter, do you know that we are discussing the promotion today, the recalculation of the pension. And in the regions, especially in the Chernivian region, there is the persecution of those pensioners who have already received a pension from the State The motivation is that a year or a half ago, the Pension Fund wrongly assigned to civil servants, especially assistant consultants to the National Deputies' pension. There have already been cases in the Chernobyl area where a person, after receiving a letter from the Pension Fund about the reduction of his pension, died and had a heart attack. These are the people who have been building our state. And if you don't have that kind of information, I'm asking you to check the Chernobyl area and in other areas where there's been a persecution of the National MPs' assistants. So I think that the committee that proposed and supported this bill didn't take fully into account what was being done in the regions, and considering that this would not give pensioners anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u81	I should like to recall that the Committee has not supported this bill. That's the first one. Three, if there are any examples of what you're talking about, I'm willing to check these things out with you. No questions asked. With everyone who's supposed to get us to say thank you later, including in the coffee shop. Agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u82	National Deputy Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, please tell me, the committee has not supported the economic motive, but the ideological committee, so I understand from your previous conclusions, does it support everything? So it might be necessary to provide for some progressive introduction of this law, and perhaps in this area find a common language with the drafter of the bill by the national MP Cibenko. I mean, you can't die all the time after a million years like last year, people, and you can't plan it just because we don't have the money. And where is it that the President can fly seven times to Moscow, at what cost can a state afford to drive a state plane seven times? Is that what you wanted? Let them talk on the phone. This is where you have to count the money. And we're counting the money on what? On a penny? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u84	I'll start at the end of the question. I think so. I would like to recall my name, Nadrag Vasili Ivanovich, on this matter to Nadragya Vasili Ivanovich. First. Second. Regarding the strategy, and that is also true, in the previous report, I answered your question and said: “To date, the strategy for the decision, including the indexation of the pension, is being laid down in a large new pension law.” Therefore, based on the logic that we will go out with this law in this room, and we hope, on second reading, to receive your support, we have concluded that the financial component has not been worked out at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u85	National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear Vassil Ivanovich, would you please tell us that this system of personalized accounting, which is being implemented in Ukraine, is a means of social engineering for the consciousness of the people and the transformation of it from the collectiveist to the nationalist? Is it not a personalized system of accounting and generally a strategy for anti-national pension reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u87	I'm in. Deeply convinced that the introduction of a personalized accounting system will enable us to strengthen control and move away from the notion of the shadow wage that we have today, unfortunately, in a number of places. The desire to receive in the envelope will be much less when a person knows that his or her contributions are taken into account and adequately influence his or her pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u88	National Deputy Suhi. The faction of the Social Democratic Party is united.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich, I have a quick question. You know, well, first of all, I fully support your argument of not adopting this bill, because we have a lot of trouble today, we have 117 and a half million, we don't have enough money to help families with children, and 110 million of us lack money under the Family Law. Well, it's grief and trouble: we adopt laws without money, people hope, they get money for six months, and then they're left with nothing. What position does your cousin have for us in accepting pension reform? How much longer can we pull? We will constantly tackle such gaps if we do not deal with the fundamental solution of this problem, that is, the adoption of full laws that apply to the three levels of pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u90	More than solidarity with your approach. We are on the committee when we started working, and we have also been faced with the fact that the great Law on New State Pensions must be made of nose blood. Unfortunately, there is a lot of work to be done. As a committee, we have received more than 750 additions and amendments. We must work them out with all the participants. He therefore agrees with you in his approaches. Unfortunately, there is a temporary problem. We would also like to do so as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u91	Vasil Ivanovich thank you. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion of two bills. How long are we gonna take? 15 minutes will be enough for us, won't it? I'm not laughing, I'm serious. The committees offered 10 minutes. Let's take an average of 15 and look at it. National MP. Yuri Anatolyevich. National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare Solomonine. I'm asking you to follow, Your Honor, the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u92	Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I'd like you to keep your horses out of the way and not rush to make the mistakes we make on the pension insurance of our Ukrainian citizens. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, in its pre-election program, proposed, like everyone present today, that we immediately consider raising pensions not below the subsistence minimum, it's 342 bracelets. When we come out with this initiative, we start discussing these issues, the government says there is no money. Today, Deputy Carmazin and other colleagues told me that there are such funds in the state, but there are none for pensioners only. I see people smiling in this room, my colleagues, I'm very grateful for that. But it's not a laugh, Your Honor. When we make statements about what was in the past famine, why don't we think that people are dying today because we can't provide our pensioners with an adequate pension. Those people who have been building our state, which reformers can't do until now and rob, we're saying that these people need to set 47 or 48 dollars, and then give subsidies or allowances. With these subsidies and allowances, our pensioners go out for two or three months and can't get any, because there's no one help or other help. Let's take a bold step, let's think about it, let's not be the rays that the government is offering us in one bill, and the second bill is going to have a deviation of the propositions. I think it's number one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you've confined me to the performances. I'm a Ukrainian national MP, and I'm asking when two bills and I'm writing down two bills, I have to use the time I've been given. About article 66. Dear Helen Vasilovna! Did you forget that there is still a village that is not understood at all and whether there is pay today? You, your honor's agriculture, the Agrarian Party, don't we understand how a peasant is going to be counted when there's not even a salary? When are we going to turn our views to the village anyway? Not only to reform, but to see what pensioners are doing there today. You see, I'm making all my speeches just because there's not a single bill that you can say what you thought or what you didn't say. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to you. Take a look at this situation. What is 70 bracelets a minimum pension, is it not today a reality that needs to be confirmed? Isn't there a real budget that can raise the minimum pension for pensioners today? Isn't this a disgrace to our state today when the pension fund checks out civil servants, when people are taking off their pension, and we're watching it all? Let those who have assigned these pensions answer, not those who have received them for a year, and today we say they have no right to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u93	Thank you. National Deputy Solomonine, Communist faction. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u94	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! I want to make two lines about the laws that are being discussed. Bill 1375 really needs to be supported, and there's no objection to this bill, except for one -- insisting that the personalized system of accounting is the one that seems to be able to recreate for the pensioners and the average secret, the "magical" door is a delusion. It's just part of the pensioners, and those who work and get at least something. But we have the vast majority of those who don't work and get nothing. Therefore, this is not a key and principled solution. And a trailer for Law 1016 introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Peter Cibenk. Most of the comments that were made at the address of this bill are that the issues that have been resolved are to raise the minimum amount of pension from 47 dollars and the target amount of money. In addition, from $86 billion to $70 billion, some 12 billion of this money is not available in Ukraine’s State Budget. Of course, there won't be if we have such a pitiful salary, if we have unemployment, then there's nothing to count into the Pension Fund. But together we have experience in filling out the Pension Fund. And it was in the Supreme Council of the previous call that there were such proposals, they were accepted, extra taxes on jewelry, expensive cars that import prestigious stamps from abroad, mobile connections and so on. So let's think about this, and in this direction, what we have to do to get rich people to add something to the Pension Fund. We had a presentation at Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. My question to him was this: Dear Victor Fedorovich, the government of Kinach, was asked by the President to resign in view of his lack of attention to the social focus of his activities. Please tell me, Mr. Prime Minister, what do you consider appropriate to do to strengthen the social orientation of government activities and where to get additional money? And the interesting answer was that I think the only way is to take unpopular measures. So let's do this unpopular thing and make the rich share it with the poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u95	Is there a national MP, Mathvienkov? None. Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honorable, suffering people of Ukraine! First of all, I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to protest violations of the Rules, I have the right. You've combined two issues that don't connect, completely different bills of substance, which are just one subject, but completely different bills. So consider this a warning of noncompliance. Any deputy has the right to pay attention to the presiding officer. I'm asking you not to take part in the performance, it's okay. Now for the first bill, Bill 1375, introduced by the government. The bill has to be, if you talk a lot, viewed as a framework, a completely insurance policy, and no other. And you understand that very well, Deputy Secretary of State, Hotch Olena Vasilovna, when this law was passed. Because today we are approached by pensioners and we have nothing to say to them. There's nothing we can do to cure them, anything else. This law is not going to solve it. What's more, I'm going to tell you that we're restricting everyone, and that law limits people. We write: no more than 10 percent and no more than 40 percent per year in total, but other than military officials, except for the judges, except for the deputies, except those established by special laws, and we shyly keep quiet about it. They can get a full pension. On what basis do we in the majority of the population of Ukraine take these pensions? On what basis do we do this? This is the first time. And second of all. When we finally have this law, and I remind you that it was adopted on November 5, 1991. Over the course of 11 years, we have failed to achieve that the minimum age of retirement is set to a minimum consumer budget, but not below the low level of insurance. Well, at least 268 dollars, that's what we need today. So what they said today is that the village is dying and whoever's paying for it is absolutely true. And the fact that most of those who died in this year are peasants is also the right thing to do. We were told that the House of Auditors was checking out the Pension Fund, and it would be necessary for the Court of Auditors to check on the President's Administration, where they wouldn't let you know. There was no admission to the Supreme Court of Auditors, no permission for the Court of Auditors to examine the Constitutional Court, no admission to the Supreme Court of Commerce, no check, no check of the Special Accounts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we'll keep quiet about it. So I want to talk about the second law. The second law of the national MP, Cybenka, is a positive bill. The only negative is that he didn't define the source of funding. It must be viewed in the complex by the entire system of power reform and the entire system of economic relations. And so it has to be accepted as a declaration as the purposes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the only thing that has to be written is that it has to take effect since January 1, 2004, because maybe by then we're changing gang power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u97	People's Deputy Stays. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies have indeed passed the election, and millions of pensioners who have heard about pension reform expect that pensions will finally be paid justly, depending on their employment, on their contribution to work, and, above all, that pensions will become much higher. But unfortunately, we can't say it's real. We're offered in half. We see that even the bill that was introduced today practically leaves our pensioners again, divides our pensioners into two groups, black and white. Unfortunately, again, we see that instead of giving the pensioner an adequate pension, he is encouraged to work, thereby blocking the practical path for our young people to new jobs. Once again, we see a huge difference today between workers and peasants. And really. Here I fully support MP Melniczuk, that these documents don't solve the peasant issue at all. I think my position remains the way it was. First of all, pension reform should lead to a single pension insurance law. Otherwise it will all be a violation of the Constitution, a violation of human rights. We have to bring about a system the size of pensions that are now in the heavens and, of course, to raise the really lowest pension limit. Next, what must we do? These earnings in Soviet rubles and Ukrainian coupon collectors should have a legislative relationship with the bracelet. Unfortunately, this is what we do. I know it's a ransom for the Cabinet of Ministers, the Pension Fund, but once again, I would like to emphasize that the legislator should do it in the form of a law. Because if we don't do that, then the Cabinet official is going to be digging 5 or 10 bracelets, raising the size of a pension to laugh, but that's totally unacceptable to us. So I would like to point out that, in fact, we should do everything we can to withstand the ideology of the law that he proposed, in the matter that Deputy Cibenko reported today. For us, it is an honor to move slowly towards a minimum pension, which should be equal to a minimum of living, and this should especially become a postulate even from the point of view that we have declared to be on the road to European integration, and will never speak to us as a state if we do not provide, indeed, a worthy old age for pensioners who have earned it for many, many years for our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u99	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Hinsburg, 161 constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I go out to this rostrum always for the sake of my constituents, supporting them and their problems by highlighting here. Each time, about 90 percent of the people who approach me are very poor, destitute. And their problem is today the problem of both my national MP and the issue of the Supreme Council, because everyone in the district has such problems. And we just don't have another way out, we don't have the right not to worry about it. Given today's laws, and 1375, and 1046, there's no other way out, we have to support them. And I didn't understand, of course, the position of the committee that today is refusing to support the Zibenka bill to raise the minimum pension to 70 dollars. Today 70 bracelets are not money either, today our people are doomed to extinction. I ask myself, how can I live for this money? Is it to buy bread for yourself, or is it to put it on fuel, or is it to public services, or is it to gather at funerals somewhere, because funerals today are also a terrible tragedy? People are already thinking, not about who died, but about how to bury him. And they say there's no money in the state. I want to propose today because this project is being considered in the wake of the adoption of the State Budget. And the Communist Party has today submitted, according to the current legislation, proposals for the formation of an income portion of the budget, where 4 or more billion money can be found in the state, and this will allow you to raise a minimum pension not to 70, or even more. It's the benefit from the enterprises that we have today, we need to take them off, it's the profit from the companies of the tobacco industry, the liquor industry, which today all of the profits are in the pockets of our entrepreneurs, not in the state, and this should be the main financial asset to increase the pension. This is a congregation at the Pension Fund. And there's a lot of pay today in envelopes, and that doesn't add up to the pension fund. I want to finish my speech and say the main thing that I would like to say to my constituents today, to the national deputies, to the distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Our Supreme Council needs to be the best in history, and even for the state, the most important thing is to raise the minimum pension to the minimum of living for our electorate. We will thereby raise our state's global ratings, raise our Supreme Council's ratings before our citizens, and not allow them to die, but support them in this is our sacred duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u101	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, even journalists I see a little there. I want to draw your attention to this. In order for our authorities and the President to pay any attention to anything, we need to start criticizing them. Because once at 10 a.m., the President called on the President, and there was an eight o'clock attack on his life at night. So what I'm saying is that I support my colleagues. Cibenko made it very clear where about $10 billion can be found for pensioners, and I want to say that another 20 billion can be found. But to do that, we have to start with the President and his Duce, this is the State Administration. You see so much of the spirit that you have to give it the benefit of bringing all goods without customs, without any tax, and even doing business. It takes the President's garage to have only Mercedes and armored, so maybe he could drive some cheap cars. So now all the problems. What's more, the President needs a sauna on the fourth floor, that's 40 million dollars, and that's half of what we need to pay off our pension debts. So if the President were thinking about his people, it would probably be without this soul, without the sauna, without the armored cars, and everything would be okay. And then the President would think about how to organize his own production, how to create, like these around thousands of businesses that have benefits, that they have to keep these benefits, and that the money should come into the budget. Start supporting the fight against the shadow economy. Do not issue decrees, but financially suppress them, force them to pay money to the budget. And acting on your own production, not vetoing laws that promote production. So it all starts with the President. And I'm very sorry that the Ministry of Labour, instead of telling the President where to take the money, they say there's no money. I would like to urge our colleague Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag: Do not take the position of government and do not say that there is no money. There's a lot of them. You know, our oligarch leaders fell into the first dozen of Europe's richest people. And the people fell into the second hundred of the world’s poorest. Here's the money and who cares about the people. So it's about the bills. The 19th article, which restricts pensions to those workers, has to be abolished completely and the question has to be asked not to limit from the beginning the pension, but what people have earned to pay, and the minimum pension should be at the minimum of living. I support the law of Cibenko, which really needs to be indexed by pensions, and the government and representatives need to not fight against their own people, but to stand up for them before the President, before the government and before the Supreme Council, rather than insinuating us that there is no money. Money is not for those. Money must go to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of two projects. All those who wanted to speak. Please, from the Cibenko procedure, Peter Stepanovich, a faction of Communists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in the discussion regardless of what opinion they have expressed in support or against this law. But in any case, it allowed our citizens. Our pensioners look at the position of political forces, parties, factions and so on. The other one. The brief discussion that took place in this room around this law once again showed that as soon as it came to the question of a pensioner, a veteran, a disabled person, there was no violence, there was no money. They will never be until the Supreme Council has expressed its political will and made the right decision. Third. Of course, this project does not solve all pension problems. I understand that very well. But it raises the minimum pension to 210-280 bracelets and eliminates the terrible discrimination that is today. And the last thing I wanted to say. Dear colleagues! One of you has the idea that the committees don't support this bill. But the situation today looks like this. One of the committees, namely, the Labour Committee, the Social Policy Committee, expressed support for this and supported this bill, and I am grateful for it. Unfortunately, the committee and I are in a lot of human pain, the committee I lead, the committee on veterans, pensioners and invalids, unfortunately, some of the deputies of this committee did not support it. It really is. But there is the position of one of the committees to support it. I would still ask you to support this document tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! We're finalizing two draft laws. I'd also like to support our colleague Peter Stepanovich Zybenko here, and we need to work on growing up. I've got it. I think we all have this impression that the income part of the budget is going to go down, it's going to be 2 billion, and we're going to sit and think about how to divide 2 billion. We need to look for funds to solve social problems. Dear colleagues! As for the decision, we will be determined tomorrow in the vote, taking into account the discussion. We are now moving on to a simplified procedure. I'd like to ask you this. We didn't consider Bill 1279 yesterday about the local police. In view of the fact that the draft budget already provides for the solution of problems related to this law, we simply need to make the right decision. If you don't mind, let's now consider this bill. You are considering a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the formation of the local police. Reporter is Secretary of State of the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Hapon. Short-term procedure is five minutes, as you know, no questions asked. And the discussion is 2nd, 2nd opposite. From the committee to prepare for the national deputy Bandurki.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u106	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a local police is proposed. Ukraine's General Structure Act, the number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, adopted on January 10, 2002, already provides for the functioning of local police units. Thus, it is proposed to consider a bill amending and supplementing the laws of Ukraine on police, on local self-government in Ukraine, on local government administrations and on the Ukrainian Budget Code. This sets out a specific mechanism for the establishment and functioning of the local police units listed above, namely, the local police, which is proposed to establish regional, city and district councils in the structure of internal affairs bodies based on the State Department of Traffic Control, the post office, the district inspectors, some other departments, and to support local budgets. A local police will be formed with the submission of executive bodies of councils and local government administrations in line with the main administrations, the administrations of Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol. In turn, village councils and rural councils can decide on the introduction of additional positions of local police officers to serve their own territory, thus affecting the resolution of law enforcement and the rule of law in the community. The local police will be headed by a chief who is obliged to report on the state of public order and public security on request of the council. The appointment and dismissal of a local police chief, chiefs of structural units, and members of the police are offered only by agreement with the relevant councils. The heads of local councils are given additional powers regarding the impact on the state and the organization of public security, the rule of law and the proper organization of the local police. In order to ensure monitoring of local police activities by local authorities, it is proposed that local councils refer the right to the relevant internal affairs authorities to the issue of discharge from local police posts if they recognize their activities as unsatisfactory. In order to resolve the issue of maintaining the local police at the expense of the local budget, the corresponding additions are made to chapter 14 of the delimitation of expenditure between the budgets of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which provides for the maintenance of local budgets of the local police. Today, there are more than 45,000 units of troops that can join the local police force. It takes 515 million dollars a year, of which 368 million dollars a salary and 144 million dollars a financial security. By the way, half this number, which is almost 24,000 units, is already being held by local councils. At the drafting stage, the bill is agreed with interested ministries, including proposals and comments by district governments. Taking into account the situation, we believe that the local police should be able to form themselves in a phased manner, coming out of the financial capacity of local councils. But to strengthen the mechanism for the establishment of local militias is necessary by the adoption of this law by the Supreme Council. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. At the same time, the following issues will be resolved in the process of creating the local police. First. The pressure on the state budget will be reduced. Ukraine's National Budget for 2003 bill, which was discussed in the first reading, will provide $214.8 million in local budgets to finance local police departments in terms of inter-budget transfers, subject to the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of local police, which, inter alia, provides for amendments to articles 88, 91 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the granting of the right to local government authorities to direct funds to the maintenance of militia units. The other one. They will be implemented in the practice of the article of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the part about the creation of the militia that will support them. Third. The real impact of local authorities on the state and organization of public order, public security in its territory, the legality and proper organization of local militias within its mandate will increase. Four. The adoption of the bill will allow for the preservation of the maximum number of internal affairs officials designated by the Supreme Council of the country and will ensure that Ukraine's tasks of protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms of its citizens are met. Fifth. Authorities of local self - government
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u108	Thank you. I'd like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. By Bandurka Committee Alexander Markovich Please. Dear colleagues, this is a reduced procedure, only the reports, two-for-two-against. All of it. Dear colleagues, there's a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u110	Dear Head, honourable people's deputies, I ask the left MPs to calm down, they will agree with this bill. Dear colleagues, in fact local police units, are operating today. These are child receivers, distribution receivers for administratively arrested or drifters, beggars. This is also an inspection of juveniles, a patrol unit. They operate, and they are funded by local authorities, local self - government. This law legitimizes these units, and we want to add to the law on the overall structure and size of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which you adopted a year ago, goes the total number approved, we do not violate, introduce and legitimize the units of the local militia. In doing so, it is legal for local authorities to determine how many militias they need. The Committee on Law Enforcement dealt with this issue, agreed with it with other legal committees, and we decided to support the Committee on Budget Policy, and Mr. Poshenko was supposed to be here as a reporter, agreed on all of these issues, they are foreseen in the 2003 Budget Bill. In fact, no additional funds are required. Nor does it require a change in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, no questions asked, it's a reduced procedure. I ask you not to scream again, you will not take your voice and calm down, please. Short-term procedure is provided for in the short-term procedure. Thank you. Yes, please, Your Honor, sign up for two, two against. Bondarenko, light up Bondarenko Viktor Dmitrovich, faction of our Ukraine. People's deputies Bondarenko, Carmazin, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u112	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, faction of our Ukraine. I couldn't help but go out to this rostrum today because I was initiating my own time's bill on the militia of the city's local self-government, it was called in the last summons and looked at in two committees. There is now a bill called "The Police of Local Self-Government" signed by a whole group of deputies, including Stretovic, Matvienkov and others. It's about what we really need to do is create a full-fledged law on local police. In that project that we've submitted, all the positions on the transfer of the 12 militia units to the local level, the positions that have been developed that the rank and rank that exist today in the state police can be converted freely into the local militia, and this will enable the implementation of the relevant article of the law on local self-government, which gives the authorities the right and obliges local self-government authorities to take care of the protection and rule of law in their own territory. Today it's only being done from one center -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The law that's really proposed really kind of solves the problems of inter-budget transfers, and actually, the use of huge sums from budgets at different levels to maintain the militia. But only partially. You know, the President issued his decree without waiting for the Supreme Council to consider a bill that was under consideration at the time, and that decree is in force today for some reason. Today there is such a bill, and we must consider it. And I don't understand why Alexander Markovich Bandurko of the profile committee isn't looking at this bill, but he's just proposing the little changes that are being proposed today. What's the point? Today, local budgets finance large police units, in fact without having the right to influence their activities. No right can the local authorities give any direction to the district inspector, no direction from the State Inspector of Inspection, or to ensure that houses are protected along with the security services, this leads to a high cost of the State budget, and often ineffective, and it also deprives the Supreme Council of effective control over the amount of police funding, as well as the overall number of militias. That's why I propose that the Ministry of Internal Affairs return to the right side of the law that we have proposed, because in the past we have received some 400 reviews that have been positively viewed by this law, including by the local authorities, and one negative by the signature of the minister, then Mr. Kravchenk's minister. So I went out to this rostrum to ask, after all, to go back to reviewing the full law on local police. And some temporary changes in budget funding for one year may be approved in order not to break the scheme, but in general a normal, full law must be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. [[I'll later, if I may.]] Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Insomnia Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. We introduced such draft laws, the national MP Bondarenko and I, he was called: "The Municipal Police," if you remember. And these projects are really not considered. But does this mean that we do not need to consider the changes and proposals to the laws that are being enacted? I think we need to support the proposal and the decree issued, number 1279/p, on the adoption as a basis of the draft Law amending some of the legislation on the establishment of the local police, and on the basis of the draft in the first reading. But I do have some important points. For those of you who don't know the bill, I'll remind you that there is a mandate for local councils to control the officials they appoint and to initiate the release. All of this is foreseen. But I do not understand why such a local police force should have the right to be granted the law. Paragraph 22, I take note of paragraph 22 of the Kabmin draft to article 38 of the Law, which is written. It is addressed in due order to the court on restrictions or prohibitions on the holding of meetings, rallyings, marches, demonstrations, other mass measures that ensure that decisions are made on these issues. I say that this paragraph first violates the Constitution of Ukraine. Secondly, it allows police departments to reintroduce themselves into political activities. Mr. Secretary of State, I respect you very much, but unfortunately, after the apologies here from Mr. Smyrnov's rostrum, we've seen that in a newspaper called "The Name of the Law," but there's no law that even smells like state funds, which we then beat and take away from others, there's a lot of nonsense about delivering deputies to make sure you don't know yet, Mr. Head, to see if it's an MP to call you and see how you're looking at this disgrace that's allowed for government money, I don't know. So this item needs to be removed and completely excluded from the political orientation of the police. And it seems to me that the Secretary of State has nothing to fear, so to speak, he must be irrevocable for the term of office of the President. Your authority must end what your intercessor does. And your deputy has approved an appropriate directive for the militia. And that's quoted on the radio. I understand, but it's a question of everyone. And it's very important to know, and it's very important to stop and hand it over to these people, because otherwise people will have the right to check on police personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u115	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u116	And call every minister or secretary, make sure, whether the license is issued to a sergeant or to a lieutenant or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u117	Turn off the microphone, please. National MP Bespali Boris Jakovic, faction of "Our Ukraine". Get ready for John. Dear colleagues, regarding the protection of MPs. We at the Conciliation Council agreed that we would prepare and hold a closed session of Parliament to discuss the implementation of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies. I don't think we're going to be able to figure that out right now. Please, Boris Yakovitch. Get ready for John.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. This law does give me such a conflicting attitude, because there is, in fact, a mature problem. And all those who conducted the electoral campaign, especially in cities like Kiev, are very concerned about the situation in which the local police are located. On the one hand, it's the unit on which the whole burden of solving domestic issues is the divisional militias, it's chronically underfunded because they're not reaching out because they're not elite units. On the other hand, local budgets, even if they have such funds, do not have the right to finance the local police, a more loyal police working at the local level. And there's a problem here. But what is the conflict? But the scheme proposed in the bill is so complex, too complex, it's so childish, maybe a little bit of the left ear to deliver with your right foot. Threefold subjugation of people in pursuit, it just makes me question the viability of this sphere. So still, I think a more logical way is to form a local self-government militia that is completely formed by local councils. There are also some warnings here, because we have strong urban heads, they choose directly. And there is such concern that these may be cohorts of Praetorians with some very strong local leaders. On the other hand, if we're talking about a militia of self-government, it's not going to be on a deserted island, not in space. It still has to be subordinated to the government in a number of settings. In particular, it should be used in emergency situations, in the event of a military situation, in case of a natural disaster. There's a problem with assigning military names to this militia's senior management. I mean, I think, given the points to be set out in the law on local government militia, we still have to refrain now from supporting the bill and going back to the law on the establishment of local government militias, which in the past was submitted by the people's deputies and is now ready to reinstate and still to go with that scourge, all the more so that the world's experience shows that it also supports this option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u119	Sergey Ivanov, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u120	Deputies! We all understand that this issue has long come to light, that the question of the establishment of a local police must still be asked. And there were a few bills immediately. If you look at these bills and those that were before, for example, I'm afraid of the following. Let's say the assignment of names at the local level. That is, almost in those bills could have been attributed to the colonels, and, if the case were to come, to the general. Practically at the local level, they decide what to do. Imagine if there were any local colonels or generals in the country. That's what that's gonna lead to. The second is that I don't like the bills I read. Number. For example, to date, there are an average population of 3.5 thousand per parcel. In those bills, we have about 500 people per unit. How many militia officers are we going to have then? Where can I find this money? Finally, third. What I don't really like is, let's say we take a village council. To date, many rural councils do not have money for maintenance. Hence, not everyone will be able to have the quantity he would like. And if we are to take all the negative and all the positive sides of these bills, there is no doubt that the bill proposed by the Government today must be taken as a basis and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u121	Thank you. The motive is the National Deputy of Assadchev, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd just like to inform you from a budgetary point of view, but I'm just surprised to see how such a serious issue can be dealt with in some short-term way, and not even included in the plenary. You know, it's actually this kind of work, I would call it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's a halture called. Now you're doing the haltura in the Supreme Council. Under the Budget Code, the entire police must be financed entirely from the state budget. Last year, at the request of Minister Smyrnov, the budget committee made such an exception for one more year, and in the current year, part of the militia is allowed to continue funding from local budgets. In 2003, no amount of money is strictly forbidden to spend on the maintenance of the local police. And this is the purposeless use of budget funds. As soon as we get these shots into the law without a basic law, without a basic law, I'll tell you what's going to happen. The local budgets don't have a penny, and it's not going to, but the police will take money from doctors, teachers, cultural workers, and how they will do it, you know, science, yeah. So they don't have enough money to raise their expenses by a billion in two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u124	And now they're going to take another billion from the local budgets. I mean, actually, this is now an attempt to change the slogan and write the "city militia" and take another billion from the local authorities from the humanitarian sphere. So I'm asking everyone not to vote in favour of these changes, but, in fact, to make a basic law, to consider it, not in a reduced regime, and not in a halting system, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but to take it seriously. That's a serious question. And after the basic law has been passed, it is necessary to amend the relevant laws that are in force today and bring them into conformity with the basic law that has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Out of procedure, Bandur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u126	Deputies! Well, it's just a misrepresentation by a colleague who just spoke, Mr. Assadchev. We're saying that no extra amount of money needs this law. This is only about the legal basis for the activities of the divisions that exist today. Our respected colleague says that one billion will be taken away from doctors, teachers, and money, and so on. This is no more than a misrepresentation of facts, or a respected colleague has not read the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u127	Thank you. I think that's enough. The question is done, as far as the decision is concerned, we will be determined. I just want to answer your questions, Your Honor, so that you can be mutually correct and pick out the words. This is what I call all the national MPs. It's about the haltura. I want to remind you, and now it's going to be out of procedure, and I want to remind you that this question is included in the agenda of the day, and yesterday it was on the schedule of meetings, yesterday. That's right. Just a minute. According to practice, if the question is not considered on the day, let’s say it goes to the next day. Tuesday was not considered, and it went on Wednesday. And I would ask that we respect each other, and that the Supreme Council is engaged in the holturism. She's in serious law enforcement. Let's move on. A replica? Please, National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u128	First of all, I didn't say that the Supreme Council is a bachelor, I said you're a bachelor! And I confirm that. Why, when you have to move a matter from morning to 12:00 in one plenary day, do you have to vote on 226 votes, as you have voted on some things here? And in order to take it from one day to another when it is not on the plenary schedule, there is no need to vote. What are these double standards? Has no one prepared for this? I wasn't preparing, for example. Then let us vote whether to consider it today or not. And you, of your own free will, are putting it all in. There's some sort of procedure, some sort of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u129	All of it. Once again, I want to tell National Deputy Assadchev that if you want to prepare, you should have come to the plenary meeting yesterday and prepared. The question was yesterday. Whenever a question is not considered in one day, it is automatically transmitted for the following days. And in order to change order, to vote on the matter at 12 o'clock, to vote at 10 o'clock, to consider it, we never voted. And I don't think you need to twist the facts in order to carry out your opinion. Your consideration is being made. And once again, I wanted to say that the Head of the Supreme Council does not allow for the haltura until he is the Head of the Supreme Council. You are being reviewed by a draft law amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities on Pensions. Reporters - National MP Bespalij, Harjacha - Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, National Deputy of Ukraine Pinzenik. Again, I point out not to blame that, as we have agreed on a consensus council, these issues are being dealt with by a reduced procedure. Please, Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u130	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, which we are co-authoring with Volodymyr Kafarski. The essence of the pension of scientists and academics today has two components. A total that is calculated on a general basis and paid from the Pension Fund of Ukraine. And additional, scientific, which is the purpose of the law on scientific and technological activity. So, about this same scientific thing, and we'll keep talking. For those who retire from budgetary institutions and businesses and educational institutions, a scientific pension is paid from the State Budget of Ukraine and for all others at the expense of these enterprises and organizations. So who are these "others" who have to pay their former employees' pensions themselves? In the form of ownership, these are governmental but not budgetary, that is, accounting organizations, institutions, enterprises. These are municipal property, i.e. enterprises, institutions and organizations that belong to the property of territorial communities, especially Kyivsky, which I'm talking about as a deputy from Kiev City, are shareholders' societies. In addition, even those shareholders whose shareholders are a state or a territorial community. These are private, after all, associations, private objects. According to these types of activities, they're scientific institutions, they're higher education institutions, and they're especially science-intensive enterprises. I, in a sinful act, thought that most of the time, when I passed this law and in the last summons, by the way, it applied to educational institutions. But when we analyzed more carefully who and how much they pay, it turns out that this law is the most applicable to our industrial giants, who have powerful scientific KGBs and so on. I'm just paying attention to industrial scientists, because this one would seem like a trifle, if it wasn't cured, it would put it on the blades of industrial giants. This bullet, it's also small in size, but it kills an elephant. What's the perspective here if we leave the state of paying off the scientific pension as it is now? This will either collapse scientific activity, because the insurmountable burden is such a pension, or those who continue it simply go bankrupt. The question is, which is the worst option? Well, the answer is, of course, both are worse. The current order of payment of a scientific pension is not only destructive, but also unconstitutional, because it violates the equality of enterprises of different forms of property, as provided for in the 13th article of the Constitution. Well, maybe article 13, she's not so lucky, unhappy. In addition, all businesses and institutions are paying for the budget, pension funds, and insurance funds, just like all of the wages are paying taxes. The current order violates pension legislation, legislation on an enterprise that does not provide for the State’s right to oblige enterprises, institutions, or organizations to pay pensions from their own funds, the more the latter. The fundamental principle of law, which does not allow retroactive force, is violated, after all, by a healthy mind, when benefits are given to those who are still receiving budgetary support, and for those who heroically find the funds, an additional pension burden rests on them. And that's when in modern Ukraine everyone who created a job is a hero, and who created two jobs is a double hero. It would seem clear here that all Ukrainian scientists and educators should be balanced in their rights, particularly in the right to pension insurance. But surprisingly, there are arguments that I have to stop at them. First argument for big pensions for scientists. I think it's very good that at least some of the scientists in the budget sector have decent pensions, or the brain drain will continue abroad. The second is an old song about no funds. I think the main argument against is actually an argument for. Indeed, if such a burden is not burdensome for the State, for the budget, it is no longer capable of doing business. Here, a colleague of Paul’s spoke very well about where to look for budget funds. Finally, finally. Our Kafar bill is not an alternative to the Cabinet bill, but it complements it. And so it's suggested that the committee take both of them as a basis. He's completely in line with the Pinzenic MP's project, which asked me to tell him that he's filming his project in this paper if our project with Kafarsky is accepted. I thank you for your attention and I look forward to supporting our project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Helen Vasilevna Hotjača, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In 2000, when the Supreme Council Bill on Science and Technology came into effect, we had the opportunity to increase the level of pension for scientific workers more than twice. Today, 35,000 of our fellow countrymen in the listed category receive higher pensions. At the same time, over three years of practical implementation of this law, we have raised a number of issues from the government that we are bringing to the Supreme Council to determine on them. So we're proposing, based on the content of article 1 of this law, that scientific activity is the main activity of the workplace, that it be determined as to whether it is to be included in the scientific experience of the postgraduate period, and whether it is to be taken into account for the income that is not obtained by the main place of work. From the point of view of the government, in our view, it would be quite appropriate if we could continue with the content of article 24 on retirement and incorporate only the period of postgraduate in the daily form of education, as well as the salary at the main place of work. In considering this situation, there were suggestions in the Governing Council Committee in the relevant area that, within the framework of the income from which the contributions are made, the wages should be taken into account and compatible, but, of course, if there was a scientific work under the co-existence. The government will not object to the consideration of this issue when preparing for second reading and its positive consideration. Another question. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has given an opportunity to raise the level of pension and those scientists who retired many years ago, it's both the '70s and the '80s. And of course, the wages for that period are much lower compared to the working conditions. And that's why the professor's staff, the assistants today receive a pension three times less than those categories of people who retire from today's salary. Therefore, the government has proposed to adjust the salary to bring the pension levels of these workers to the level of current pensions, to increase the salary. The Science Committee supported the issue. The only thing the scientific and expert department has suggested is that it should not be determined by the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the legislature. We do not object to such a proposal, and we have prepared an appropriate version of this article for our second reading. Dear National Deputies! The issue of funding scientific pensions. That law that was passed today, it exists, in fact, it solves a number of problems for the material welfare of pensioners. But at the same time, as you do, the government receives very many requests from the heads of state-owned scientific enterprises, because this law is distributed to such a form of property of scientific enterprises, and they ask that the law cannot be financed by them, because we have legally violated another norm of our existing legislation. We've intervened in business and 90 percent of pensions are actually the second salary of scientists. And individual scientific enterprises have a pay-as-you-go fund for active workers lower than a pension fund for those who have retired. The government has considered these proposals carefully and has found it possible for the following year to take into account in the State Budget the partial coverage of the expenses of those enterprises for the financing of this pension. Regrettably, only 50 percent of the costs incurred by businesses can be compensated. The budget sector will be fully financed by the state budget. Dear National Deputies! Another proposal that came from you is settled, too, is the scientific institutions of former social organizations. We suggest that this is a positive solution. The law is passed on to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u133	Thank you, Olena Vasilovna. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Drogunzov. Oh, I'm sorry, Mikhailo Anatolyevich, I'm sorry. Igor Raphaelovich as a co-reporter. I'm sorry. So we're going to go with the reduced procedure, so it's going to be two in a row, two in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The committee has considered the bills that have been tabled today. These are three bills: one bill from Bespalog and Kafarski, one bill from the government, and one bill from Pinzenik, which passed its bill in favour of the Bespalog and Kafarski bill. What is the point of this work? If we look at our pensioners, we have actually 3 discharges. First place. Pensioners and scientists who work in public offices and continue to work in budgetary positions — those funded by the budget. The other one. Scientists working in public offices In government, sorry, institutions, but not budgetary. And the third. Scientists who have moved into private institutions. Thus, the pension extends only to those scientists who work in government institutions funded by the budget. For those who work in public institutions but do not finance those institutions from the budget, the pension may be paid, but on the basis of the budget of those institutions. This leads to the nonsense that Olga Vasilovna was talking about. The same scientists who have gone to work in private institutions or stock companies and so forth do not have the right to receive pensions. First question. The second question. Counting into the course of scientific work. It was a matter of whether or not an apprenticeship should be included in the course of scientific work. The original version of the project included postgraduate education, regardless of its type. The President vetoed it. We agreed with the President's veto to make the pension pay. We think there should be a rule of accounting both for the eye and for the distance postgraduate. And finally, the last nonsense we have with this law. People who have retired by the year 92 or, let's say, to this day, those people get a very low pension, the professor and the associate who worked at the time, now get a much lower pension than they get, let's say, an assistant or a regular science associate. So there are, as you can see, very many incomprehensible things that generally contradict the Constitution. According to the Constitution, all property rights are equal and we have to treat them equally, and the other thing is that we don't have the right budget money to pay these pensions. The committee adopted the government project unanimously. The committee of the Kafarsky and Bespalogo projects has accepted 6 for and 4 against. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading and to entrust the committee with making a harmonized draft for the second reading on the basis of these two proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u135	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for the roadrunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I will begin to justify the need to uphold such laws by asking doctors from the Maquis Science Institute for the Safety of Mining Works. We said this morning that there were problems again. So it turns out that they don't have a scientific pension because, you know, you don't have a problem, and there's no state institution that deals with these problems in Ukraine. So I think that's the kind of scientist that works at the branch research institutes, at large enterprises, they're, by the way, well, one and a half, well, two thousand. Those who retired until 1990 were left with, well, several hundred. So this is about crumbs. That is why I support the suggestions made on behalf of the Committee of the Yukhnovskie Igor Rafailovich, or is he on his own? - Yukhnowsky's academics, they're really smart. On the other hand, I spoke in the morning about the innovation process. Thus, the innovation process is being developed today in all fields, including stock companies and so forth. So we don't have to wash or stamp out scientists from all the other enterprises in the form of property. So I support what is proposed in the Bespalog and Kafarsky Bill, that all forms of property should be involved. The only thing, Igor Raphaelovich, is that I want to get my attention. There is one such underwater stone in the Kabmin bill. The Kabin has taken advantage of this opportunity and there is a basis for reducing this pension to everyone without excluding already pedagogical workers and scientists, because we haven't adopted yet in the general pension insurance laws that only account for the part that counts for the congregation to the Pension Fund, that part of the salary. We're going to have to take it out of all the wages, and here's the proposal to cut down, so I think this part that's not accepted needs to be removed, and here's the other part, what you're proposing, and I'm going to support in general with the proposal to take all the forms of ownership into account, and even in the form that Bespalil is proposing, there's just the word "businesses," there's scientific organizations, everything, and businesses, including industries, and industries, and industries, there's no. So that's one word to add, your suggestions and what it offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u138	What Yukhnowsky proposes to remove from this particular feature of Kabmin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u139	You're in, aren't you? Please, Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I have before me not a bill but a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because his bill, and I will say so, is only one thing: in article 24, delete the word "government" everywhere and write "all forms of property." That's it. But what's going on here? Why do I firmly deny it, and why did the committee, on several occasions, fail to agree? Now Igor Raphaelovich says, "Six versus four." Yeah, but at what? When he saw four against and four for, he gets two papers out of his pocket and says, "I have the consent of two deputies. That's how we vote. Do you understand? And now, essentially. What's the matter? This is not about different forms of property at all. The point is that one of the teachers works in a government branch and receives a salary of $400 a month. And the second teacher works in a private school, like Bespalogo, and gets a salary of 2.5 grand. That's right. 2.5, pay attention! And the pension is equal to or equal to 90 percent or 80 percent. So for the same job, the public instructor, as I call it, gets 350 dollars, and his teacher gets 2,000 dollars. Is that fair, please tell me? And what's the form of ownership here? And he wants us to pay this 2,000 dollars out of the budget. From the budget to the private teacher. What's really going on? For example, I finished my career in the U.S.A. and received a pension of 400 dollars from my associate associate. What am I doing? I run to a private college, I start working there, two years later I apply for a pension recalculation, and I'm getting 2.5 thousand. In two years! And they're counting my pension by 2,000, and they're paying me out of the budget. Here's what we're talking about. And you don't have to hide it! It's totally unfair. We, hundreds of thousands of people who work in state institutions, scientific institutions, and universities, find ourselves in a totally debased situation. And as far as the Ministry project is concerned, not the Ministry, but the Cabinet, we accept it, there are many shortcomings. But in the second reading, it will be possible to eliminate them as much as possible. That's why I'm saving you so you can understand. I'm just sorry that tomorrow's not the ones who are here today -- the most conscientious MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u141	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. I mean, one for one, one for one. Please, national deputy Yavorowski. None. Bondarenko, are you in? Bondarenko instead of Yavorowski, our Ukraine faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u142	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. I'm writing it down, too. I would like to have a little discussion with the distinguished Sergey Ivanovich about how to use these concepts in legislation: state and non-state ownership. In the years following the adoption of the Constitution, the stereotyping of these concepts has broken. In the residential area, for example, those who live in so-called state buildings, which have long been privatized, are being rehabilitated by municipal funds, and their maintenance is provided from the budget. And those who have built their own property and live in a cooperative apartment with the same status as privatized have to keep their homes at their own expense. I mean, where is justice? The one who built the apartment for his time must now keep it, and the one who received it for free will be held at the expense of the state. It's about the same thing here. We have a stereotype: state, non-state form. 24 articles of the Constitution, 41st and 42nd articles of the Constitution clearly refer to the equality of the rights of Ukrainian citizens regardless of their color, race, age and so forth. And they're also talking about equality of ownership, about that one form of property and monopoly cannot be discriminated against by one form of property. And when we adhere to the Constitution, by ignoring its meaning and content, we will never allow those who work in participating scientific institutions and others to be discriminated against on that basis. I have practically every reception, taking into account what is next to the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 8 institutes in the Sanhedrin region, there are people who pay attention to the inadequacies of the current law, particularly the scientific research institutes, the research of the productions to which certain scientists from scientific institutions are assigned in order to carry out their studies. And they worked there for years, and they retired from research institutions. They're also being deprived of some kind of retirement funding for scientific activity. The same is true of postgraduate education. Some people did not have the opportunity to study at the hospital, and they were given the same name. This should be taken into account in the assignment of pensions. So I would like us not to absoluteize the notion of "state ownership" in determining the fate of the people who worked in the same sector, in science and in bringing Ukraine, and in all of humanity, their minds and achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we already have two in favor and one in favor. The following is the national deputy Karmazin, who said he was against it. Dear colleagues. Well, please, from the procedure of Igor Yukhnovsky. Turn on Yukhnowsky's microphone, our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I must say, as a result of this discussion, everyone was right and Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov was right. Until we establish in the state, honourable deputies, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, more or less a rigid tariff network of salaries. And from that tariff grid, from those wages we're going to charge the salary, we're not going to establish justice in that state. Therefore, the setting up of a certain tariff network of wages is a requirement for justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u145	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity" Party "Protectors of the Motherland." Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me, is there not a certain lobbying of certain scientific institutions today? Is there a problem or not? In every social organization that is now establishing its higher education facility or formerly owned by the public organizations of the former Ukrainian RSR, other Republics of the Union of RSR, there was a choice, if you go to a state educational institution to teach or work in this institution, you get less pay, but more prestige. And there were the best experts. If you left, I don't want to call it, at different levels of public organization, you had a faster job there, you were immediately an associate, and a professor, and whoever you were, there was less of a lab, an assistant, and so on. And today we want to solve the issue with one stroke. Now, from the State Budget, we have a big budget, and there we predict 80 percent of the wages. Aren't we ashamed, we've just been looking at a bill that we've been told that we can't raise a minimum pension by 70 dollars, and here we're saying that we can do it a little bit without even being justified, and how many of these people are in the state today, to make that decision. So even though my faction and Mr. Pinzenik were here, and Mr. Bespaly, I want to say to them, "Pluto is my friend, but the truth is more expensive." The truth is that there is a law and it needs to be written by the perfect in terms of both legal technology and the Constitution and social justice. And the predicted change and use of the words "all forms of property" without removing the word "state" at the same time contravenes the terminology that exists, contrary to the Code of Budgets, because the expenditure of the State budget is projected to increase, and according to part of article 27 of the Code of Budget, the laws affecting the formation of income or expenditure are to be officially published by August 15. So I think that these bills can't be supported in this way, maybe just in case we say that we don't pay anything at the expense of the State Budget. They want people to, please, make sure these payments are paid, they're paid on wages, then they're put in interest on social insurance. That's my position. Otherwise, there's never enough budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft law has been completed. From the procedure of the People's Deputy, Mikol Shulga, then the Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! And I'd like to draw your attention to the consequences of this, if we leave the pay gap between private and state institutions, the consequences could be devastating to the state-owned institutions, to the academic institutions. The thing is, in five or six years, no one's gonna work there. So we have to get out of this, I agree with Igor Rafailovich, through the tariff system. But we have already adopted a system of tariffs for State institutions on August 30, 2002, and we could bring all the educational institutions and academic institutions and non-state institutions into this system. [[Decree 1298]] Well, in the end, let's give private people 20-30 percent more to pay, but to some common sense it would be possible to talk about the equality of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u150	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I sincerely thank all the participants in the discussion, and those who supported the project were most of them, and those who made comments and opponents. Thank you. But I feel the need to clarify three positions in a concise way that caused me to just, I can see, misunderstanding. First of all, our law with Vladimir Kafarsky does not apply at all to the order of accounting for a scientific pension. Today, this pension is the same for all businesses, institutions, and organizations, without exception. We're not interfering here. That's the first one. It's different. It is not only about private entities that need to be spoken of, even though the law extends to them. It's a small part of the actual burden of the insurmountable, which is relied upon by both state accounting organizations and utilities, and open stock companies, on our industrial giants. And finally. Given that there is a certain budgetary burden, it is here that we agree with the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the profile committee that we propose a step-by-step introduction of this law into action. The representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, Mrs. Hotch, spoke about which part of the Cabinet of Ministers was ready and included in the budget for 2003 and the other part could actually be put into effect from the new budget period and then it would be completely correct. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I hope for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities has been completed. [[concerning pensions]] The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[on salaries and pension financing]] Reporter: Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Matvijczuk Vladimir Makarovich. Prepare the National MP, Chickanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the government has submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. What changes do we see in the bill? First. Set a standard for granting the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the conditions of pay for employees of local self - government bodies. The other one. Establish a State budget funding rule for pension costs for local government officials, which is equal to the difference between a special law pension and an amount calculated in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act. Why is such a change necessary? First. With regard to granting the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine the conditions of payment of work for local government officials. The terms of employment of local self - government officials today are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is provided for by the Act on Pay for Work. The Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government stipulates that the conditions of payment for employees of local self-government bodies are determined by the local self-government authority, on the basis of the conditions of payment of work established for civil servants of the relevant categories and posts. This led to a series of misunderstandings. In particular, the Pay for Work Act gives the Office of Ministers the right to determine the conditions of pay, and the Service in Local Self-Government Act, the Local Self-Government Authority. The other one. To date, local self - government authorities are using the conditions of payment for the work determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the law says otherwise. Third. The law on granting local government authority the right to set conditions for payment of work according to the terms of the civil servants ’ work is unclear. For example, what public service body should be likened to the wages of the village council? It's just impossible. And this leads to a series of misunderstandings. Allowing the local government to determine on its own the terms and conditions of payment of work will certainly result in a higher wage for workers in individual local governments, such as the rural council, with less work than for local self - government with more work. This will inevitably lead to a race: who will set more wages. In order for this not to happen, it is essential that the conditions of payment of work in local governments are regulated from one center. Our law provides for the granting of such a right to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Regarding the financing of pensions for local government officials The Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government stipulates that the costs of increasing pensions are financed by the Pension Fund. This means that higher pensions are essentially financed by pensioners who today receive the maximum pension of 141 bracelets. It would therefore be appropriate to establish such an order that this difference between a pension under social law and an amount under the Pension Insurance Act was financed at the expense of the State budget, as is now essentially the case for civil servants, scientists, other categories of social legislation pensions. And that would be fair with regard to those pensioners who receive a pension on the basis of current income from the Pension Fund. I'm asking you to support the bill introduced by the government and accept it for implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u153	Thank you, Vladimir Makarovich. Please report with the alternative bill National Deputy of Ukraine Sergey Vladenevich Ciccanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u154	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, representative of Chicanov, faction of Communists. First of all, I want to say that I have nothing to do with the law that Mr. Matwijczuk Volodymyr Makarovich has just reported, because my bill relates to a completely second proposal that decides the conflict that we have just recently made. The current legislation does not take fully into account the fact that the term of office of local self - government in local self - government authorities for independent reasons may not be consistent with the law’s term. There are 8 years of work in these positions, which are the basis for the availability of general employment for the purpose of assigning a pension in accordance with this law to officials working in local self - government bodies. What's wrong? Yes, in 94th year, local council elections took place in July, and in 98th year in March. The officers who were elected during these two vocations actually served for seven and a half years in election positions. So they don't have the right to make the pensions they have to be. The amendment to part 10 of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is proposed as follows: "The crew of local self-governance persons who have worked in election positions in local self-governance bodies for eight years or two or more years, except for the termination of powers for the reason defined in article 78-89 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine, and further in the text, "will enable them to avoid in the future a situation in which the short term of the powers of the council in the cases defined by law should not affect the rights of persons working in elected positions, in particular pensioners. We also know that in the Supreme Council. such a question to spread the terms of the elections to the Supreme Council and local self-government authorities in order to avoid this collegiate, such an offer is made. Now, I also want to emphasize that the articles 78 and 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, which, we will say, provides for cases where, in general, there is a recall of these people and the termination of their term of office in connection with the violation of the Constitution and so on and so forth. That is, this proposal is in full compliance with the law on organs. I apologize for the law on public service in the local authorities and the law on local self-government in Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u155	Thank you. From the committee, please, National MP Melniczuk. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government has carefully examined and considered a bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities. This is Government Bill 1055. The proposed committee to consider the bill was rejected by the government. We believe that the standard proposed by this bill is an unwarranted violation of the principle of the organization of local self-government, which is rightly referred to in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The committee received a letter from the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposing that the bill be adopted as a basis. And the findings of the Chief Scientific Administration, which has a number of observations, and the proposal to redraft this bill, which our committee agrees with. The committee was determined on this point. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject a bill that violates the principles of local self-government, which are covered in part one of article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of part five, article 61 of the First Part, article 71 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. And secondly, there is no financial justification and no calculation of possible additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. For this reason, the committee has been instructed by the subcommittee to work on the bill and to bring to the attention the committee, which was made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho. Those changes to the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Rule are given to you, honourable deputies. Perhaps today will be taken on this matter and the decision of our committee. With regard to the consideration of Bill 1055-1 of the People’s Deputies of Chickanov, part of article 21 of the bill is proposed in such an edition as our national deputy, a colleague, has just reported. That officials of local self - government who serve in elected positions in local self - government bodies for 8 years or two or more years, except for the termination of powers for the reasons set out in articles 78, 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. Keep putting this article in the text. The committee unanimously supported this bill and we hope that it will also be supported by the majority of the votes of the members of the Supreme Council. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the practical significance of this addition, since there are numerous letters to the committee that say that in the assignment of pensions, the relevant authorities are being restored to individual former employees of local self - government bodies, even when the eight - year term is one or more days away. But is that right, for according to the Constitution of Ukraine, man, his life and health, honor and dignity, integrity and security are recognized as the highest social value in the country. We also believe that it is necessary to determine whether a vote should be taken. We believe that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will also be determined tomorrow when this bill is voted on. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they've signed up for the performance. National Deputy Karmazin, please prepare Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You can see once again that non-alternative bills have been put into the order of the day. These are completely different bills, they apply to completely different parts. And I am grateful that today, Mr. Melniczuk, the head of the State Building and Local Government subcommittee, reported this brilliantly today. But in order to understand why a government bill should be rejected simply as such, there is a need for argument. I think that the motivation that Kabina's proposal for non-violence of this issue is unregulated and so on does not correspond to reality, because part three of article 21 provides for the payment of local government officials the same as for civil servants. The Cabinet of Ministers defined these conditions in the Law on State Service. In this way, local governments have defined and provided for by legislation authority on their own, stressing the self-declaration of pay terms. And given that local self-government bodies are created from the initiative of the territorial communities, and the officials of these bodies are paid a salary from their funds, and according to the contribution they are assessed there in these communities for the exercise of their powers and it would be appropriate to establish that part of the pension of an official who exceeds the amount of pension calculated in accordance with the law is financed at the expense of the local budget. But I think that since such a change is not being made and the committee is proposing to reject this bill at all, I share the committee's view that this bill should not be improved, it should simply be rejected. That's the first one. And with regard to the second bill of the People's Deputy, Chuchanov. I think it's a very good bill and it's practical, so it's coming from the ground. It's because there are different cases that tell us whether the courts were on trial or not, and they've been delayed for months. These are life situations that no one can influence and correct today. And we know how many judges there can be today, according to the heads of the village council. And that's why writing an alternative, but for two occasions, it saves the situation, and it's socially fair, it doesn't deprive the category of legal possibilities. That's why I'm proposing a bill, which I'm stressing is not an alternative, and I'm asking him, because the Supreme Council's Office is working very badly, it's working very poorly, it's putting alternative bills in place, not putting them as alternatives tomorrow, but putting them separately. I'm addressing you and please put it to a separate vote. This should be put separately. This law is to be passed, and it is to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u160	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u161	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u162	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! I'm a supporter of the institutional and legal autonomy of local self-government. Of course, government regulations in all areas do nothing but damage. Along with the fact that we have considered our previous calling, I have made more than 20 amendments to the law on service in local governments. One of them applied precisely to the part that regulates the level of wages in local self-government bodies and there was an invitation for the government to develop appropriate spreadsheets where it would be clear that the head of the rural, village council corresponds to such a rank of service or a position in the public authorities and can receive such a salary with the maximum of its size that it will allow some way to regulate these problems, because it can. In theory, local self - government authorities can run too far to pay for their work, especially in areas where there are certain conditions and financial opportunities. So I think the government has to think about these proposals and propose another bill, not one that's rejected, where it's set up and where it's clear how it can and should be done. We have considered this, once again, on the committee. And the second law that really applies to a little bit of other positions. I fully support him. I think that there are, there are many more situations in life that then put people in an awkward position. For example, I take the example of Kiev, where four circuits were cancelled in connection with the change in the circuit structure, leaving 10 to the expiry of the authority of the local councils and officials of these local councils. This is nowhere in the law, but it has actually taken place in life. The author of the law should therefore consider that, in addition to the 78 and 79 articles of the law on local self - government, where settled positions in connection with the permanent cessation of the activities of the body or officials of local self - government are to be foreseen. I mean, even though there are others in the law that sometimes arise in connection with the creation of new administrative units or with the change in the administration of Ukraine, which can take place in a very broad sense. In general, I support the position on two occasions without setting those years, because there are situations where two summonses are not eight years old. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u163	National MP Matvienkov, prepare for Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends, I am very sorry that I have not been able to speak at the previous time, but I would like to summarize all the issues under consideration today, all the bills, I mean the previous laws. Today, we are considering one of the sickest bills or the sickest ones who are likely to be of concern to everyone today, because the way society treats children and old people depends primarily on the situation in this society and what society it is. The pension system is not a secret, we have probably found ourselves the most vulnerable in the process of restructuring our economy. And the pensioners must have been in the worst, most deplorable condition. Therefore, what we are doing today is this 5-10 per cent increase in pensions, a change in the structure of the pension system. In principle, it has not resolved and will never solve the issue, and we also understand it perfectly to this day. That consolidated system that existed to date when everyone worked for one boiler, and from that one boiler was distributed regardless of whether you worked or not, of course, it survived a long time ago. The situation is exacerbated by what? First of all, the tension of our economy. You understand well that unfortunately, I don't know how many, a quarter of a country, half a country, but some of it does get paid in envelopes. And we are well aware of situations where people have absolutely no record of their work and wages passing the salaries of pension funds. A pension comes and all these people come to the Pension Fund in good faith and speak with a long hand: give us a pension. We have to divide among those who contributed to the Pension Fund and among those who did not work the day and share in equal shares. That's the first one. The second is the demographic system. Why are we hiding our heads in the sand? Today we already have 0.6 to 0.8 pensioners working somewhere. Five years from now, we're gonna have one retired worker, and then we're never gonna get that system out. Today, in order to increase our pension by at least twofold, and we understand that this is something else to be said at least if we increase our pension by two for pensioners, we need to increase our accruals on each ruble by two times, that is, not 32 kips from the ruble to pay, but 64. What is it today for a manufacturer to make 64 kopecks out of ruble? Who's gonna pull that today? I assure you, no one will bear that burden to this day. That is why we must speak of one thing today, we have talked about this in the past, that we need the concept of the development of pension reform and we need to move on to concrete steps in this direction. We need concrete action, let us sit down and work with the Government. As for today, we need to answer some questions. First. Why does the Pension Fund have a surplus? We have spoken on this subject on several occasions, and let us deal with this subject today. Let's move on. Let's figure out the upper limit. Why do people get a salary of 3-4 grand and get a pension? Is it enough for them to say, and does it play any role in that amount? We've got to figure this out. And the next moment. We need, once again, to move on to the pension accrual mechanism in person and then we will not answer these questions that we are answering today. Why does a civil servant receive 80-90 per cent of the pension from a salary and a steel or mining pension receives 5-10 per cent? Who has established this relationship? Who's determined it's supposed to be like this? What is the same contribution to the economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u166	I would therefore be more global in addressing this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u167	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the position of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and express my warnings about the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, because I think we see a conflict of two strategies here. The first strategy that tells us that we have a system of government, as provided for by the Constitution, is a system of local self-government. And local self-government will only then be local self-government when, in a budgetary, financial sense, it is an autonomous unit that defines and acts on the basis of general principles, but it can allow itself, depending on the specificity of the region, the mood of the territorial community to act on its own judgment, which is supported by the territorial community. And the Cabinet of Ministers' approach is strategically another, which predicts that it is necessary to regulate everything to the extent that local self-government is part of a system of executive power that is conceptually contrary to the existing Constitution, not that the law on local self-government. The second thesis is fundamentally important, I think. I guess so. If we're afraid today, let's say some city heads, or village heads, are rural. The question of wages, let's say there's a race or a championship, as a colleague from the Cabinet of Ministers said, I think we should understand very well that the level of control of local self-government is much greater than that of the Cabinet of Ministers, the apparatus of district government administrations, the people who choose, who vote for it, they think about their decision, because sometimes the city council sessions, the village council, are no simpler than the sessions of the Supreme Council as opposed to the sessions of district and district councils. So I think that local self-governance is a factor of self-restraint, let's say, in that they're going to raise a lot of wages there. And the third principle is important. I am absolutely convinced that there is a certain pattern: the poorer government officials, especially at the level of local self-government, the greater the bribes. And we need to understand that perfectly. And I know local self-governance, I worked there in Kiev, so the general logic should be that we should make everyone equally rich, not all of us make the same poor. So I think we can act in accordance with the principles of local self-government, where, depending on how the local council works and how it works, they should have the right to encourage their employees and act in accordance with their mandates. The Cabinet of Ministers should, I told Vladimir Bondarenko, general principles set maximum, minimum, and local self-government should listen to them. So I also propose to reject the government bill and support the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll decide on Thursday. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm not saying anything about that. I just wanted to say that the National MP Ivanch's project, which had just been handed out in the hall, just probably hasn't been considered by the committee yet. And according to us, to justify some point of view when we need to, we rely on scientific expertise, and when we don't need to, we don't talk. In this case, it was also worth hearing from a co-rapporteur from the committee that the scientific and expert board strongly denies the bill of the National MP, Cicchanov. You have to say everything, my dear fellows. Question completed. You are being reviewed by the draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian State Service Act on Pension Insurance. Reporter Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. Prepare for the report by Jaroslav Sukhoma. If I may, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Ukrainians are looking forward to a pension reform, and this reform is what we all call the most pressing social problem of the day. But at the same time as the constructive development of the Ukrainian model of security and our old age with you, we also need to consolidate the constitutional equality of the rights of citizens of retirement age. Pension legislation is primarily a state-proposed dynamic model for pensioners, which provides for a permanent link to the economic state of modern society. This creates prerequisites for the retirement provision at any time of a pensioner's life to be consistent with the current realities of economic progress. This is the goal of social justice and the protection of pensioners and price increases in the Pension Insurance Act and of increasing pensions according to the population's monetary income index. A similar mechanism is laid down in the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. These laws ensure an annual increase in pension benefits, which compensates for increased consumption through inflation processes and increases the standard of living of pensioners along with the lives of working persons. At the same time, the mechanism for the indexation of pension payments is completely absent from the State Service Act. Retirement benefits of government officials remain constant throughout the period of retirement. This leads to a reduction in real-sized pensions as a result of inflationary and other processes. the standard of living of former civil servants' pensioners. So at 10 percent inflation in 10 years, the real size of pensions will be less than 40 percent of the original size and less than 15 percent in 20 years. With a view to protecting pensioners who receive a pension under the State Service Act, it is proposed that the prescribed law be supplemented by an article that determines the order and conditions for the recalculation of civil servants’ pensions. The recalculation of civil servants' pensions will take place in the event of an increase in salaries for working civil servants, resulting from the sum of the official salary, taking into account all the allowances and allowances of the working civil servant of the corresponding office and rank. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, giving a generally positive conclusion to this bill, proposed adding all the allowances and allowances to the list, which would result in a recalculation of pensions, as well as bonuses. I fully support this proposal. Another disadvantage of the current Law on State Service is the lack of a clearly prescribed procedure for obtaining the right to a civil servant’s pension. Imperfect is the formula for determining the number of persons entitled to receive a civil servant’s pension. The law provides only two necessary conditions for receiving such a pension: the retirement age of a person and the working age of a total of 25 years for men and 20 years for women, and the service of the State for 10 years regardless of sex. But the lack of rules on the extension of the law in time has led to unconstitutional interpretation and application of the law in practice. According to the explanations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the state official’s pension was only counted for those persons who were in the public service when the State Service Act on State Service was introduced. In this connection, persons who are entitled to a civil servant’s pension did not enter the ranks of persons who, with the necessary service as of January 1, 1994, were already retired or were not employed in the public service. Thus, the solution to the assignment of a pension to a civil servant depended on many random factors. With a view to eliminating social injustice and avoiding unconstitutional interpretation of the above rule, it is proposed that the second article 37 of the law be supplemented by a determination of the right to a civil servant’s pension on the condition that there is an internship and no matter what place of employment at the time of the retirement session. The implementation of the bill will, of course, require adequate spending from government funds. According to the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, today there are 42,000 people who receive pensions from government officials. The number of people who have reached the retirement age and who have served in the public service for more than 10 years but who have not received the pension of government officials is about 54,000. Thus, the cost associated with the extension of the Ukrainian Civil Service Act will be some 33 million, 600,000 dollars, for the stated category of persons. And this increase is being proposed to fund at the expense of the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, the time of legal improvement requires us to bring the provisions of the Law on State Service into line with the Constitution and similar rules of the current Ukrainian pension law. Once again, this bill does not have normative innovations, it is designed to address the unconstitutional shortcomings of existing legislation, it is the result of the elaboration of numerous petitions by Ukrainian citizens whose rights have been substantially violated because of the unconstitutional interpretation of the adopted law. Thus, the introduction of these changes not only has a positive impact on the material situation of pensioners, former civil servants, including our colleagues with you, respected colleagues, but will contribute to more social protection, and that is what makes constitutional levels of pension insurance for all categories of pensioners the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u171	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich, too. People’s deputies, Jaroslav Suhi, are invited to the report. It's a reduced procedure, we voted it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u172	Honourable National MPs, the bills that we are considering today during our working day, are called upon to resolve or improve one of the main contradictions to the development of Ukrainian legislation and that today we are trying to hot-wire holes in labour social legislation due to the existence of this contradiction in our legislative process. What are we talking about? And the point here is that today the issue of labour and social legislation in our state of one and the same level is decided in some cases by law, in other cases by Kabmin's regulations in some notable and legal acts, and what this leads to today is an example of a law that was reported to us by a colleague of Bespali on scientific and technical activities. This leads to a full balance between the production and social protection functions of the law. The responsibility for this should be taken over by both the Cabinet and the Supreme Council. By the way, it's also happening because very often here, in this room, we've been galloping around Europe very quickly, at a pace, feverishly, pushing through, trying because at this time in this room, a group of political psychopaths has been killing the hall, killing the whole of Ukraine, giving us no normal, peaceful work, and now we're forced to make time. Today, how did it happen that we could not pay the beggarly money to families with children? But because we still haven't considered or voted on Law 1368. We've all been listening to what a bad Kuchma is, which is a good "freak." Bill 1295 called for changes to the existing state of affairs by such a plan. The committee, after considering this bill, believes that there is some discrimination to date, because before retirement, a person working in the civil service, but having an adequate record of government service, is in a situation of discrimination for 10 years. And so the committee believes that Bill 1295 will contribute to the social protection of that category of pensioners under consideration, and above all to constitutional equality in relation to the approach to pension provision of different categories of pensioners. Dear National Deputies! We understand, of course, the intensity of the budget, we understand very well that there has never been enough money and budget and people expect social justice from us today. Today, the post office of our committee and the Committee of Honor of Zybenko "pastise" with such letters as to why people who have retired before 1999 receive three times less than those who have retired since 1999. This applies not only to science - technology workers, government officials, but also to flight personnel and other categories of workers. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its conclusion of 9 July this year, considers it appropriate to support this bill aimed at improving pension insurance and social justice. This bill was considered carefully in our committee. We decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Is there a Yavorowski national MP? None. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Without euphoria, let us take a look at the question raised by the distinguished Stephen Bogdanovich. And here, a distinguished reporter from the Suhim committee was insulted by "our President Cuchma." You don't have to. His name is Kuchma. And that's how you insult them. I want to protect the President. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's see what's going on. Is there a good thing? I've certainly never heard him say anything serious before. Of course, there is a benefit for those who have worked in the public service for more than 10 years, but for some reason they retire from a position unrelated to the public service, the right to receive the pension of government officials is progressive and certainly socially just. The state simply recognizes the status of merit when performing professional duties, but it is simply necessary to determine the time limit. That's the first time. The other one. Is there an imperfect bill in all things? No, it's not. Article 37, introduced by Stephen Bogdanovich Havrish, should not be supported under any circumstances. I underline, under no circumstances, Stepan Bogdanovich, she can't be supported, at least I won't vote for it. And I ask you not to vote, and I ask the citizens of Ukraine to understand our attitude. You're counting 54,000 people today, and in fact no one is going to answer the number of people to be counted today. And who does the math for those who receive the minimum pension or the average pension? We divide people into whites and blacks over and over and over and over and over again. I'm against this distribution and against the kind of proposal that you've written about recalculating the level of previously assigned pensions, depending on the increase in the wage of the worker. Because the pension provision of the main population because of the lack of funds in the budget has a clear maximum value, and for the moment, we've said it repeatedly today, is lower than the subsistence minimum. If we accept this position, we are once again closer to civil war. The adoption of these changes will only result in increased expenditures from the state budget and the Pension Fund. This is not a legal improvement. I'd like to say, if we're making changes to this law, about the aspect of pensions to consulting assistants.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u175	Everyone, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u176	I'm finishing up, I'm saving up on another one. AS A RETIREMENT TO ASSISTANTS OF THE NATIONAL DEPUTY OF THE U.K. This category of government officials is abused even here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're calling an assistant and they say you've been working for five years, but you weren't a civil servant.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u177	Yuri Anatolyovich, finish so I don't turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u178	All right, I'm gonna go to court, I'm gonna win this lawsuit, and if people don't come around, we're gonna have officials like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u179	Yuri Anatolyovich, I beg you to excel.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u180	So this is to be predicted, dear Mr. Head. Well, laws can't be passed from a shoelace on your knee, they have to be justified. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u181	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u182	That the first part of what the deputy Gabriels offered should be supported, everything else from the wicked one.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u183	Puzakov National MP, please. Well, in the next speech, you've already taken one minute of your time, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u184	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Today we're listening to one of the important issues of socio-economic development in society -- the public service. The importance of this issue is indicated by life itself, since we have many categories of civil servants who do not have the status of a civil servant. An example of this is the people’s education staff, who are rightly considered to be a priority area for the country’s social, spiritual and cultural development, since educational institutions work under the government’s programme, receive salaries at the expense of public funds, and perform tasks and functions for the state. Unfortunately, however, national education in Ukraine today cannot perform the tasks and functions of the state in a qualitative manner, because it is in critical condition and requires immediate reform, but not as did the minister of education of Kremen for the knowledge of President Kuchma, which has led the educator to fall victim to an unprecedented historical catastrophe. And I'd like to ask today, first of all, the Kremen Education Minister: Does he know that the teacher's salary is barely enough to pay for utilities and housing, and the teachers who worked at school for 40 years are now receiving 141 bracelets? The question was also raised yesterday by teachers in taking care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And young people don't come to school, they're looking for higher-paid jobs. There was also a decline in the level of the educational process. I mean, it's not a problem to list. And all of us who are present in the hall should stand up for it, help solve the problems of the school, and perhaps more than ever, it is time to compare an education worker to a civil servant. This will enable you to raise the role and place of teacher in society, improve the material status of the teacher, increase the social status of the profession, ensure the attractiveness of young professionals, and preserve experienced staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u185	Thank you, too. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have two more documents to consider besides this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, it has happened that today we are considering a number of projects related to pension insurance, this is also the law on, a pervasive pension insurance law, this is the law on scientific and scientific engineering, this is the law on service in local self-government and, ultimately, on public service. And today I've been here constantly to consider all of these bills, the issue of pension reform, the fact that this is going to be a pension reform, and it's going to solve all the issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what I believe and consider to be the main focus of the pension reform to be a radical change in the economic situation for the better. And as long as this positive economic change takes place, no law, no good law will work and will not give the expected expectations that rely on it. But what I would like to say is that today pension reform is being implemented in two planes. One area that relates to the law on compulsory pension insurance and nonstate pension insurance, which constitute the bone of the pension reform, is right. But to expect these laws to solve all problems is not right. Moreover, they will not be able to improve the retirement rate of a large number of active pensioners, or, in other words, this law for those to whom today 20, 25, 30. And we should also think about those who are retired today. And in that regard, we have to make changes to existing legislation. This is the second plane of pension reform that we are doing today, by the way. And that is why we must, in the name of those who are pensioners today, make appropriate changes to existing pension legislation. And that's why these four documents are present today that apply to the level of pension provision of the various categories of the population of Ukraine right now. As for the bill that we are considering today, I fully support the idea of this bill. The only thing I'd like to do is to ask the author of the bill, Stephen Bogdanovich, with the suggestion that the notion of "compensation" and "additions" should be inserted into the concept of "prime," because it is also part of the income of the person to be calculated, to make certain adjustments to the level of the definition of pension insurance. I propose to uphold these changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u187	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, the draft law on the introduction of additions to the State Service Act on Pension Insurance has been completed. The decision will be made tomorrow. You are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on exemption from customs duties, which is being sent by citizens abroad. Reporter: Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Jaroslav Fedorovich Soltis Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! In accordance with the legislative initiative, the National Bank of Ukraine submits to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the exemption from taxation of objects exported by citizens abroad. This refers to the order of export and transfer of commemorative and jubilee coins, which, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 19, 1993 on the system of monetary regulation, as well as the Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, have been entered into monetary values. The arrangements for the export of monetary values, including commemorative and Jubilee coins abroad, are determined by the National Bank. These two laws, as well as the order established by the National Bank, allow natural persons to transport or transfer coins of precious metals — gold and silver — through the customs border of Ukraine, with a nominal value of up to 5,000 dollars in the customs declaration. Moving larger amounts requires individual licenses from the National Bank. At the same time, another law, namely: paragraph (c) of the Ukrainian Law on Exemptions from Taxation of Goods Exported, Consigned by Citizens to Customs, prohibits citizens from exporting precious metals and stones and their products outside the customs territory of Ukraine. Under the interpretation of this law, third, the coins of Ukraine are made of precious metals. This paragraph, which I was talking about, dissipates with the previous two laws and does not facilitate the sale of numismal products of a monetary court. The National Bank of Ukraine has one of the best monetary courts in Europe and is currently implementing coins within the framework of existing legislation, already implementing more than 37 million precious coins. I would like to inform you that transactions for the sale of commemorative and jubilee coins are very beneficial for all countries, including Ukraine, since the specificity of coins is that the value of metal in all coins is less than half the value of sales. In silver coins, the value of coins is three to four times the value of metal, and in gold, it is one and a half times the value of coins. All countries, including those with coined yards such as the United States, Austria, Canada, Australia, South Africa, China and others, have an unlimited international trade in commemorative and jubilee coins. That's why we're introducing a law that would remove both for Ukraine and for the monetary court, restrictions on the implementation of coins for up to 5,000 dollars at a nominal cost. Additional costs are not required by this law, but will contribute to the availability of additional funds in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u189	Thank you. Who will be speaking from the committee? Ah, there's Sergey Vasilovich. I thought you were in a meeting. Please head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u190	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I must inform you that the National Bank is preparing good laws. And this law is not an exception to that list. The National Coloring of Ukrainian Coins, the Kyiv Art School, aroused great interest in the international numism community. With the aim of improving legislation aimed at promoting domestic numism products from precious metals outside Ukraine through the export and transfer of goods to international postal services by citizens abroad. The National Bank of Ukraine has developed a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Exemption from Customs of Goods Exported by Citizens to the Customs Borders of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on October 8, 2002, reviewed the draft law submitted by the National Bank of Ukraine and invited the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. The bill proposes to repeal the above-mentioned article 3 banning citizens from exporting precious metals from Ukraine's customs territory. The adoption of such a bill is aimed at promoting numism. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u191	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the national deputy Carmazin has signed up for the performance. Maybe from Yuri Anatolyovich's place. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is the only law today that can give the budget enormous revenue. Another question of their size will depend on how the National Bank works, how the government works. In my opinion, these coins have to be put all the way around, and let them finally put their money here officially to foreigners. But there's a small bomb that everyone hasn't noticed. I'd like this law to start working as fast as possible and act. But this bomb is that it doesn't make any sense to pass a law that will lose its validity as of January 1, 2003. I'm going to the committee. Didn't you see that? Did you not see that this law would become invalid with effect from January 1st of the Customs Code? Therefore, it is urgent to change, obliging Kabmin to consider the possibility of allowing citizens to export commemorative and Jubilee coins outside Ukraine. their alienation in accordance with article 251 of the Ukrainian Customs Code of 11 July 2003, which will take effect on 1 January 2003. Thus, the law must be adopted and adopted immediately, but it must continue to work, which means that it must be prolonged and amended to the Customs Code that is being introduced. I think that now I've been understood by both the Scientific and the Committee of Burjak, that this has to be taken into account, not just by a declaration, but by actually filling the State Budget. Laws should not be treated rashly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Exemptions from Taxation of Goods Exported by Customs has been completed by citizens outside the customs border of Ukraine. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. You are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine to define the concept of a self-regulatory organization. Reporter of the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Oleg Mikolaiovich Mozgovy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u194	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In short, a draft law to amend the law on state regulation is proposed for your consideration, a draft to implement the President's decree, along with the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance. The draft law has been reviewed and approved by the Committee on Banking and Financial Policy on Economic Policy for the Management of People's Agriculture. Supported. The bill under consideration provides for changes in the definition of the term "self-regulation." As part of the deletion of the rule on the voluntary membership of a self-regulatory organization and the introduction of a new type of function of a self-regulatory organization. That is, one self - regulation organization of every kind of professional activity in the securities market. And that's what the next line is going to be. A self - regulation organization, a nonprofit association of professional participants in the securities market, is created according to the criteria and requirements established by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission and agreed with the Antimonopoly Committee on the principle: one self - regulation organization from each type of business in the securities market, aimed at organizing the activities of its members and registered by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the transfer of part of the functions of government regulators to the securities commission, to regulate professional activities in the stock market to self-regulation organisations and to establish a single approach to the creation and functioning of self-regulatory organisations that will facilitate the implementation of a single national policy on the activities of professional participants in the securities market, and to strengthen state control over the compliance of market participants with regulatory requirements. I would simply like to inform you that today there are nine self - regulation organizations in Ukraine that bring together all professional participants in the securities market. But in order to be able to implement the principles of self - regulation, we feel that the adoption of this law will organize and enable us to implement the principles of self - regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u195	Thank you. From the Co-Rapporteur's Committee: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u196	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honorable People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u197	Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u198	This bill, as Mr. Brain has already said, provides for a three-way change in the definition of self-regulation. First of all, these organizations are not profitable. Secondly, their membership is mandatory and, thirdly, an SRA is created in principle by one self-regulation organization from each type of professional activity in the securities market. The question of clarifying the definition of a self - regulation organization is important given that regulation of the activities of professional participants in the securities market requires substantial improvement. On the one hand, the State must exercise proper control to protect investors in the securities market; on the other hand, market activity should not be regulated. In accordance with the current legislation, article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market establishes for its members, on the basis of valid legislative acts, the only requirements for implementing the rules, standards and requirements for carrying out transactions in the securities market, the qualification requirements for experts, and the monitoring of compliance by its members with such rules and standards and the conditions of legislation on securities. The objective number of self - regulation organizations involved in one type of professional activity will result in numerous standards of one type of activity. And this situation can hardly be considered right in the securities market. The committee also shares the view that SRAs should be nonprofitable and that participation in these associations should be compulsory. The committee considered the bill at its meeting and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u199	Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please. Out of the way, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! So they started saying on behalf of the committee that I thought they'd say the point. And the point is that this law, these changes to the law actually lead to monopolization. Belonging to a self - regulated organization will be compulsory for all market participants in the securities market. Will there be a violation of the rights of participants? Of course it will. They will be obliged, I emphasize, to join a designated organization in accordance with the type of professional activity that violates the right to select market participants and compels them to acquire the rights and obligations of a member of that organization, which is called self - regulation, whether they want it or not. This is a clear violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. They will be created with the aim of subjugating the activities of their participants and the purpose of the organization’s activities, created, including by professional principle or by activity, should be primarily to protect the interests, rights and freedoms of their participants, not to organize their activities. It's about protecting the rights, the freedoms of their participants, not protecting their activities, there's no language, there's no stuff. So I propose that this law be rejected. I draw the attention of the committee to the fact that they have failed to see that this law violates the constitutional rights of citizens and leads to monopolization. I understand that someone, a certain group, needs it. The question is, Who? Then tell me right now, who's in the best interest of it. So I think that even in the first reading, this law can't be adopted, it's very raw. Thank you. I ask the Chief to count the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-11-20-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine has been completed. We'll decide when we vote. Today, the schedule for our session has been completely exhausted, for which I am most grateful, distinguished colleagues. I mean, productive and productive work. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. At 3 p.m., Parliamentary hearings on relations and cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision.
