ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system. Please register. [[10:00:55]] Registered -326 There are 326 national deputies registered in the hall. Honourable National Deputies, on July 1, 2002, the Central Election Commission recognized the elected and registered Hare Vladimir Wolodymyrovich as Ukraine’s national deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Social Democratic Party of the United States. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, before national deputies take office, they take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, is invited. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u3	Congratulations, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, wish you success. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the birthday of our colleagues whose birthday was celebrated during the plenary sessions. June 22 - Reznik Igora Josephovich, Udovenko Hennadija Josephovich, June 25 - Skomarovský Volodymira Vladimirovich, June 26 - Gudima Aleksandra Mikolajovic, Zadrožní Aleksandra Viktorovich, June 27 - Gorbatoga Valerija Mironović, June 28 - Musijak Viktor Lavrentiovich, Tomić Ivana Fedorovich, June 29 - Abdulina Alexandr Rafkatovitch, Podobedova Sergija Mikolajovica and Sulkovski Pavel Gnatovica, June 30 - Anatolia Bartholomiyovich, July 1st - Gabriel Vasil Vasilovich. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, messages. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I'm going to announce the parliamentary requests that have come, and I'm going to inform you about changes in factions and groups. Questions were received from Ukrainian national deputies Michael Pavlovski to the President of Ukraine regarding issues of national security and national interest in the implementation of Ukraine's radio navigation plan in the process of integration into the global navigation system. Honorable National MPs. It's a deal. Dear colleagues, the Pavlovsky national deputy temporarily takes this matter down. I am announcing the second parliamentary request - Mikoli Tomenka to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the illegal approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of this request. Turn on the system. [[10:05:27]] For 155 Decision taken. Please now vote on this request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:52]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the violation by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations of article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the election of the deputy head of the committee. The request has been put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:06:31]] For 101 Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the relief of natural persons in the Podvoloca region of Ternipolis. People's deputies would like to make a decision on the referral of this request. [[10:07:04]] For 165 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to provide information on the results of the investigation of the laundering by Volków Alexander Mikhailovich of currency in banks of Switzerland, Britain, Israel, FERN, the United States, Monaco, Luxembourg, Belgium, and other countries. This appeal to the Belgian Ministry of Justice for the return to Ukraine of its funds accredited to Belgian banks. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:07:51]] For-164 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on the facts of tax pressure by officials of the Kiev City Tax Administration for the publisher, information and advertising agency Such Things. I'm asking questions about the vote. Please make up your mind. [[10:08:27]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to provide information on the results of the investigation of foreign currency laundering in the amount of $150 million through the accounts of Privatbank and the audit of the financial activities of the commercial structures created by Tihypco by Sergey Leonidovich. I'll put it to a vote. Please make up your mind. [[10:09:09]] For-143 Decision taken. The national deputies of Assadchev and others are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Harnik, for the abuse of power and gross violation of Ukrainian legislation in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Members of the People's Parliament are requested to determine on this question. . [[10:09:45]] For-144 Decision taken. Please listen to the announcement in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputy and Article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lapin Evgen Vasilovich, as part of the European Election Group. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entry of the National Deputies of the Hare of Vladimir Volodymyrovich and Franchuk Anatolia Romanović as part of the Social Democratic Dept. [[united]] I am informing you that the European Election Group is also authorized to represent the Ukrainian National Deputies Kolletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich and Satsuka Volodymira Mikolaiovich. From the inquiry procedure, the Pavlov National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, the "Fatherland" party. I would like to draw your attention to the error that has been made in the "Council" system in voting on MP's requests. We have two articles. First, in Article 3.2. 2, I'm paying attention, it's written: the laws of Ukraine, the rulings of the Supreme Council and other decisions, and the parentheses are written apart from the procedural or statutory ones. Thus, article 15, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy has marked the procedure for making decisions on parliamentary motions. Two points are that the Supreme Council decides to refer a parliamentary request to the relevant body or official, to whom it is addressed by one fifth of the 90 votes. And the second most important part of the request to the President is: "The decision to refer a request to the President of Ukraine at the request of a national MP or group or a committee of the Supreme Council shall be previously supported by at least one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council." So support can be either written or voting 150 votes. If support goes to 150 votes, it takes 90 votes. If 150 is, then 90 is automatically executed. That's why there's been a mistake in the Council system. And I made an appropriate appeal to the committee to correct this error, because we did not send a single request to the President in advance, ignoring the rules of law. So I'm asking you to give me an appropriate commission to make changes to the "Council" system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u5	Thank you. We will deal with this issue with the regulatory committee and the relevant information will be provided to you, honourable members of the national parliament. Dear National Deputies! The deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, made an offer to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account that in front of the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a thorny, parliamentary faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, which requires the commission to include a broadcast of the plenary session in the area. You have no objection? If there is an agreement, should there be no vote? All right, there's a deal. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the presentations of authorized factions and groups with proposals, calls and messages. This takes up to 45 minutes. Written references received on this subject. To make a statement, the word is given to the Turkish national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the statement of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear National Deputies! Today, due to the irresponsibility of the leadership of the Supreme Council and the absolute dependence on the power of the Presidential Part of the Deputy Corps, the Ukrainian Parliament has found itself on the periphery of socio-economic and political processes. The Supreme Council does not control the situation in the country, demonstrates the inability to adopt the serious decisions that the country needs, and voluntarily transforms itself into a decorative unit of the President's Administration. The Supreme Council has focused on dealing with secondary issues and, ultimately, non-current problems today, while Ukrainian citizens expect us to make the necessary and important decisions. The Supreme Council is now merely passively observing how criminal and oligarchic groups start a new redistribution of national resources, ignoring laws and the Constitution, how the President rewards for his loyalty and personal devotion to the high office of the outsiders of the electoral process, as the national interests of our state seem without shame and fear. Today, when there are strategic betrayals in Ukraine that essentially place the cross on economic and energy independence and sovereignty, when miners starve in the streets and areas of the capital, where the authorities are cynically disregarding the brutal destruction of the rest of the free press, while journalists are throwing themselves away, we are forced even by the order of the day’s work of the higher legislature to apply to questionable private interests and the mood of a small number of authorities. The faction of Julia’s bloc, Timoshenko, will do its utmost not to allow Parliament’s final removal to political closures. We will not be allowed to destroy and plunder the state without penalty and continue to destroy the fate of Ukrainian citizens. Our faction calls for an end to the chaotic systemless actions of Parliament and insists that Parliament focus exclusively on the issues that the people are facing. To this end, we propose: First. To confirm immediately the order of the day work of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only then to plan a week’s work; The other one. Consider this week and vote on Thursday on the establishment of a provisional investigation committee to investigate the disappearance and murder of George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov and the violation by the State parties of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine; Third. Consider this week and vote on Thursday on the draft regulation on the launch of the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine. Next. Listen to the government’s report and its responsibility for the critical situation in the country and the coal sector, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers’ programme of action on the urgent resolution of mining issues. Adopt laws on the principles of Ukraine’s internal foreign policy and on the return of citizens’ contributions and savings at this session. Without addressing these issues, we will not support any other initiative, we will not adapt to the best of plans and interests. We don't want to save the President from the people. Our job is to save people from such authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u7	In order to declare a statement from the MP's faction of SDPU(o) the word is given to the national deputy, Francis Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u8	Igor Francchuk, faction of SDPU, constituency number 7. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, the national health system has experienced considerable difficulties in terms of acute budget deficits. Inadequate funding from the State budget has led to serious socio-negative consequences in this very important area for society. It is the publicly available network of health devices for the development of health technologies that registers markedly. Access to free medical care has been significantly reduced. The level of payment of health workers is extremely low and is not differentiated depending on the qualifications. Particular attention is due to the threatening demographic situation: the mortality rate is increasing and the birth rate is decreasing. As a result, there has been a natural decline in the population. In view of the above, and in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the basics of the legislation on compulsory State social insurance, the Ukrainian people's deputies, the members of the FRA faction (o) drafted the Act “On compulsory State social health insurance”, which was adopted on second reading by the Supreme Council of the Third Council. The implementation of draft laws would certainly be an effective mechanism that would enable domestic medicine to find ways to resolve the ill issues. The bill therefore focuses primarily on the creation of new institutional forms and economic mechanisms to provide constitutional guarantees to Ukrainian citizens on health, health care and health insurance. It is very important that the bill provides for the establishment of a multi-channel public health insurance fund, including an extra-budgetary fee for a general public health insurance policy. I draw attention to the social significance of the problem and its relevance, which is reflected in the annual message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The MPI(s) believes that public attention should be given to the following: The introduction of compulsory public health insurance aimed at profound internal adjustment in the national health system. It is the Ministry of Health of Ukraine that should be interested in resolving this issue as soon as possible. Regrettably, there is today a complete distaste for the Ministry from the reform of the national health system. At a time when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been drafting the bill in the relevant sectoral committees for more than a year, taking into account the proposals and comments of all subjects of the legislative initiative and preparing it for third reading, the Ministry of Health seems to hope that the introduction of health insurance will take decades without realizing that reform is needed in Ukraine. We invite the Ministry's management to examine the world's health insurance experience and prepare a plan of action for its implementation in our country. The programme of each of the parties that have come to Parliament, without a doubt for constructive work, has declared concern for the health of Ukrainian citizens. We are confident that everyone is aware of the critical state of affairs in the medical sector, of the breakdown of rural medicine, of the stopping of the introduction of insurance, of the acute problems of public health care, of the purposeless and ineffective use of public funds by the Ministry of Health for the conversion of medical equipment. In our view, the issues raised should be assessed in principle by the Supreme Council. On the basis of the statement, the Deputy faction of the SDPU(o) suggests that, within the framework of the Government's Day in the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Health should be informed of the situation in the national health system and be prepared to submit a draft decision to Parliament. We hope the Supreme Council will support our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u9	For a statement from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, please give Kručko's Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u10	Your Honor, your colleagues! Today, when we come to specific legislative work, it is urgent to draw attention to the issue of implementation by the Supreme Council of powers, which according to the Constitution belong to it and only it, and no one can be usurped. There are many reasons for this. It is enough to refer to at least how, contrary to the requirements of article 14 of the Constitution on the Realisation of Ownership to Land, land-law relations in Ukraine were broken by decrees of the President, which the Constitution does not authorize to decide such matters. Unless it is agreed that six years after the adoption of the Constitution, our Parliament failed to fulfil its constitutional obligation to determine the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policy, which is its exclusive prerogative. Is it possible that it is normal for a state that calls itself democratic and legal, when the principles of the principle of the principle of the principle of principle do not apply at all to the Supreme Council? I cannot help but deal with the situation that has arisen around Ukraine’s accession to NATO and its rejection of its non-block neutral status, as discussed in the Declaration on Ukraine’s State Sovereignty, which was referred to in the ballot paper during the U.S. referendum on December 1, 1991. In this regard, statements are made by anyone but Parliament. There have already been some misunderstandings with the Russian Federation in connection with unaccounted for claims of the Russian Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol. However, the concrete steps taken by the highest political leadership, the Government, the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, are unknown to parliamentarians, as well as to the content of the President’s appeal to the Nazi leadership. Thank you, Mr. Robertson, who said that there were no statements from Ukraine about NATO entry, that the bloc's leadership could not say today who would be admitted to NATO by those who had already received applications. I am not saying any more that the most important documents on the partnership between Ukraine and NATO, which by their nature and content are international agreements of great importance, are not being submitted to the approval of the Supreme Council. We're still looking at sometimes the ratification of agreements made five to six years ago. In the absence of time, I do not develop this subject. Specific suggestions. First, the leadership of the Supreme Council will ensure that at the beginning of the next session and the adoption of the principles of internal and external policy. The other one. There is a need to identify various national programmes, including those not provided for by the Constitution of so-called national programmes, which are not involved in the approval of the Supreme Council, although many of them are strategic and require significant allocations not foreseen by the State budget. And the last. It is time to identify the issue of civil control, especially parliamentary control. Every step of the way we talk about European choice, we talk about putting parliamentary practice at the level of democratic countries in Europe. In fact, when the Constitution was adopted, the legislator inadmissibly confined himself to the issue of control. The Constitutional Court has found it unacceptable even to raise the issue of amending the Constitution in order to determine the place of parliamentary committees in the exercise of this supervisory function. And the President vetoed the law amending the Constitution with regard to the powers of the Court of Auditors, although the constitutionality of the law was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. It's about the implementation of constitutional status, about the authority of the single legislative body as one of the most important guarantees of the real democratization of society and the state. And I would like the leadership of the Supreme Council to be at the height of this assignment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u11	For a statement from the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, there is a national MP, Yuri Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, our authorities have repeatedly claimed their concern for the coal industry in Ukraine. Designed as promising plans for the development of the sector until 2010, the State Program for Non-profit Mines, the Social Protection Program for miners and their families at the national and regional levels. But objective indicators, coal mining, productivity, coal value, safety at work, and social protection of workers show that the crisis in the field is growing. Sailors who have been deceived by the State are forced to resort constantly to acts of protest and hunger. Uncertainty at the country’s level of leadership on the prospects for coal industry development, lack of clear guidelines on state support, contribute to the active penetration of powerful financial groups into the functioning of all sectors. The State’s structural reconstruction of the coal sector was essentially put into the hands of a semicriminal business that made last considerable profits. These incomes are mainly derived from scissors in the price of materials and equipment, services, vacations for coal, barter schemes for accounting, bankrupting and selling them at no cost, transferring the functions of sanitation to enterprises that produce high-quality products but are artificially bankrupt. It is clear that there are still issues of social protection of workers, safety of work and scientific research on board this so-called structural reconstruction, which confirm the permanence of protests in coal regions. The efficiency of receiving revenue from the work of financial industry groups despite the distribution of industrial capacity and the formation of a new governance structure is explained by the full support of government, such as Minister Hayduk and the regional heads of the administration of Janukovic, the authorities. On the other hand, the effectiveness of such activities is confirmed by the report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Auditorium, which shows billions of budget losses from commercial structures. One of the most important factors that determines the importance of the PEC sector is the emergence of family. On the basis of the above-mentioned faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, it is concluded that the reliability of the function of the coal industry in Ukraine is not considered by the authorities in terms of the economic and political security of the State and requires: firstly, to hear the Government's report on the state of the coal industry in the Supreme Council of Ukraine; secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and submit a specific programme of action in October 2002 which would foresee a set of issues on the organization of the coal sector as a strategic factor of the economic and political security of the State, and to conduct the calculation of the mines at the expense of wages, resulting from the importance of the sector and the need to improve the efficiency of the management of the coal sector, to step up the proposal of the President of Ukraine on the feasibility of establishing the financial system of the public at the expense of the third-party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u13	From the faction of the People's Democratic Party is the national deputy Petrov Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, as we all know in Ukraine, there have been elections in local self-government and I have been instructed by the faction to read out our parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office, because in some areas this has been a violation of our view of the law. The reason for these violations is not a legitimate intervention by the heads of district, district government, I mean the Chernigiv region. The work of the session of the District Councils, although it is for this purpose that the local government administrations, in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are responsible for ensuring the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the acts of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other executive bodies. The rule of law and the rule of law, the observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Self-removal of law enforcement agencies, especially district prosecutors, from monitoring the legality of decisions made by members of district councils. The gross violation was the primary responsibility for the conduct of the decision-making procedure for the head of the district council, the requirements of article 55, paragraph 1, and article 59, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Application of the unforeseeable procedure for the prior selection of nominations. Improper reinforcement of methodological recommendations, management of local authorities and local self - government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to elect the heads of the district councils. The intervention and inclusion of the heads of the District Government in the Presidium of the District Council, which violates part two of article 57 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Reference to the invalid rules of the district councils of the previous call as the basis for the election of the heads in open voting, articles 46-13 of the Law on Self-Government clearly states that the regulations of the relevant council shall be approved no later than the second session. In another district of the People’s District Council, they went further, where the council was elected, not by the head of the territorial election commission, but by a member of the election commission. Although we know clearly in article 46, paragraph 3, of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, the first circuit council session is convened and chaired by the head of the responsible territorial election committee. Neither the Attorney General’s Office nor the district attorney’s office responds according to the law. Therefore, in view of what has been said, we ask the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to take the measures envisaged by Ukraine's legislation to restore legality and to protest the decisions of the first sessions of the Corobsky and Men's District Councils on 24 occasions. To give a legal assessment of the actions of government officials who not only did not stop the violation of Ukrainian law but also actively contributed to such violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u15	He has the floor from the Democratic Initiatives MP's group, Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovic. Please, Stepan Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Let me make a statement from the Democratic Initiatives MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the third month in a row, the Ukrainian constituency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is looking forward to the fourth call. The elected Parliamentary and Parliamentary Committees have good reason for carrying out constitutional duties, and the National Deputies have good reason for implementing electoral programmes and electoral orders through the parliamentary rostrum. At the same time, the political structure of Parliament, the complete subordination of its political and legislative institutions and organizational mechanisms to the interests of the party’s political struggle, which ranges from conflict to conflict, does not provide practical opportunities to fulfil its obligations to the Ukrainian electorate and, in fact, to self - realization. This is particularly true of the Ukrainian National Deputies elected in the one-maned majority constituencies, which make up half of the deputy corps. It was they who were given a representative mandate directly from 9.5 million electorate hands, who passed an examination of loyalty to the ideas of pluralistic democracy. But the conditions of group selfishness are reinforced by various instruments of political and personal pressure in the session hall, which often undermine the imperative mandate of the legislators, neglect of the position of the Marjorie deputies and the conversion of them into political statisticians, contradicts the very essence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create equal opportunities for all parliamentarians to fulfil their obligations and protect constitutional rights and freedoms. In view of these circumstances, and based on the will of our electorate and with the aim of establishing constitutional priorities for the people's constituency in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of electoral programmes, initiating support for reforms and establishing a democratic initiative in accordance with the Rules. The aim of the group is also to consolidate all national MPs, regardless of their party affiliations and their ideas about national interests, as the only formula for Ukrainian progress, legislation and political activity on the path of Ukraine's development as a European state. The MPs will actively implement projects on rapid and real implementation of reforms and standards that create conditions for Ukraine's earliest entry into European society. The MP also aims to defend public democratic principles, debate and decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the possibility of equal access to the parliamentary rostrum for all national deputies, the stable work of Parliament, effective cooperation with other branches of government, and the provision of other constitutional and regulatory rights and freedoms for national deputies in carrying out their duties. The most important priorities the group sees are the search for mechanisms and legislative tools to implement a strategy to create an effective system of government based on the principle of a single national team, where the interests of the Ukrainian people, states and authorities will be unique in daily life practices. This gives the group the opportunity to engage in a broad dialogue with all political and civic forces on the legislative perspective of reforms in Ukraine and the political organization of government. The Democratic Initiatives MPs invite national MPs who want to implement themselves in Parliament's legislative and political work not to get lost in the broad megafractional ranks, focus on professional and legislative work, find strong corporate support, join us and join the group. This is the best chance to start our independent political path in the coming time. the fate and the struggle for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u17	A statement from the faction "Our Ukraine" is made by the national deputy, Philenko Vladimir Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the factions have grown, have patience to listen to all these statements. And what's more, the statement that I'm about to make as far as I'm concerned will be interesting, because we're going to be taken under the protection of the executives. A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" on repression against the heads of local government administrations, heads of state and municipal enterprises, organizations and institutions. More recently, Ukraine has witnessed a shameful act organized by the authorities in the Supreme Council. Not even at the cost of blackmail, threats and forgeries to protect the overriding Pro-Yedu block from being defeated in the elections, the administrative bureaucrat machine conducted an election review in parliament. Since the voters failed, their representatives were intimidated. In addition, another process may not have been so noticeable, but it was no less illustrative. It is a reflection of the methodology in assessing the activities of authorities in places. Total layoffs of heads of district administrations, as well as individual heads of government, heads of state, municipal enterprises, organizations, and institutions are now under way. What criteria do authorities use to assess the activities of a local manager? Honesty, integrity, high rates of economic growth, success in social protection? No, it's not. All the way to the banal. Even if we cross-referenced the results of the big-cleaning elections, and we distribute that statistics together with our statement, it becomes clear that the administrative apparatus is getting rid of those who, under some circumstances or other, have failed to provide full-scale pressure and falsification for the power block "To Jedu". After the election period, more than 80 heads of district administrations, four district leaders, were released. In most of the areas where "Our Ukraine" or other opposition forces have won, there's been an audit of the personnel. In connection with the stated faction of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council, it demands that the cleaning and intimidation of the local government be stopped immediately, that the Constitution of Ukraine be implemented with regard to the right of citizens to take office in public authorities. Human resources policy is governed by purely professional standards of officials. Stop the traffic and pressure on the heads of the local authorities. Carry out administrative and territorial reform, which will be based on the redistribution of authority for the benefit of the local authorities. Introduce the selection of the heads of the executive bodies of local self-government. We appeal to all local leaders, officials of various levels, who, for their honesty and openness, and for their compliance with legislation in the elections, and not only, have become victims of the clearance of personnel, to seek our help. We stand ready to fully defend your interests, to provide legal protection against political persecution. We don't care about your fate, as do the fate of millions of Ukrainians who are suffering from clerics. We stood and stood in defense of freedom and democracy. The statement was signed by the leader of the Yushchenka V.A. faction. And it's still very short. We're distributing a statement by the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine" on the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster, which occurred from 23 to 24 June 2002 in Žitomirski, Hmelnicki, Vinnitsky and a number of other areas of Ukraine. Our application is accompanied by a draft decree authored by the national deputy, Zebrovsky, on the allocation of funds from the Kabmin reserve fund to eliminate the effects of natural disasters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u19	The statement from the European Choice Group is given by the national deputy of Potapov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u20	Your Honor, your colleagues. Ukraine is at the threshold of a new stage in its historical development. The conclusion of the first ten years of a single existence, whether ambiguous or contradictory, still gives rise to the claim that there are positive developments in the leading areas of life. Today we can say that in Ukraine we have been able to strengthen sovereignty, territorial integrity, lay the foundations and create democracy alive, stop the catastrophic increase in destructive economic trends. In the world arena, Ukraine was established as an equal participant in international relations. The young European State has taken a closer look at defining the main priorities of its further progress, the introduction of a modern model of functioning and development. In such a situation, the initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fourth call, seeking an adequate response to the challenges of the historic moment, claims the creation of a European Choice Group in the country's higher legislature. The main objective of the new MP is to create a coalition majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Consolidation of all parliamentary factions and groups on the platform of Ukrainian and Ukrainian integration aspirations. Profits and achievements of their previous time of concentration to address the key challenges of today’s task. The creation of a comprehensive legislative framework for Ukraine’s integration into a united Europe But the fastest possible achievement of compliance with the criteria of the European Union. Ukraine’s course of full inclusion in Europe remains. With the day-to-day goal of integration into Europe, we are well aware that Europe itself is about to embark on a path of radical reform and renewal, and will soon embark on the practical implementation of the enlargement process of the EU at the expense of new members from Central, South-Eastern Europe and the Baltic States. According to the existence of a vision declared by the European Union, every new state entering the EU must bring its political, economic and historical heritage to it, enriching it?)in a way that Europe is the only one. We have something to offer Europe. We are ready to do this, and we believe that Europe can hear and understand us. To choose and confirm the path of European integration, to take the first and perhaps the most difficult and responsible steps, we consider our public duty both before today and before future generations of Ukrainians, and before those generations of our fellow citizens who have created the glory of Ukraine in previous years. The European choice for Ukraine is the way to the future. We urge all MPs, regardless of their political orientation and personal preferences, to cooperate in the implementation of our choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u21	The Ukrainian Agrarians have a national deputy, Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I am addressing you and the Government of our Ukrainian State. Today, there has been a critical situation with prices for oil and fuel materials that will be so necessary for the agricultural sector of Ukraine in the harvest. During the last year, we were able to stabilize this situation in Ukraine. The law was passed, then there was an agreement between oil traders, oil refineries and Ukraine's agriculture, which did not break and allowed the price of oil products to be kept stable last year. Now it's completely different. We need to close down some repair plants, we understand that. But why do this before the harvest? To fly to the mountain, oil prices. The second moment, we know what ends for the peasants: the prices of grain after harvest will fall, and more and more of the village will be drawn up with additional and circulation costs, which are still insufficient. That's why Ukrainian farmers submit to the Supreme Council a bill that deals with the pricing and tax on oil products, particularly diesel fuel, which comes from abroad. If we can't keep prices in our Ukrainian oil industry, let's let the oil imported into the country before the harvest, so that the Ukrainian village doesn't suffer. It's a bill. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we asked to include it in the agenda. It's not on this Sunday. I appeal to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to the people's deputies with the request of support, to include this bill so that we can vote for it before the end of the session. The following question. Today, there has been a negative situation with regard to the development of Ukraine’s agribusiness complex. It's usually not for peasants. So again, I'm talking to the government, to take the head of the government to personally control the financing of those articles that finance agrarian programs. And last but not least, in the government's agenda, we have to find a clearer representation of agricultural market formation in both Ukraine and the possibilities of going out to the external market, so that prices for agrarian products don't go down in Ukraine, they didn't fall in one month twice as much as they did in animal products in the last two months. And to conclude, I want to say that we support all the constructive proposals that have been made here on behalf of MP groups and factions that we need to focus on economic issues that will stimulate development and the economy and the standard of living of our people. And to complete the political divisions, they were just in the elections, and now they're not supposed to be there, because they serve only one -- to satisfy the ambitions of individual political leaders, and the people don't give anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Honorable national deputies who wish to speak out of factions, lists, lists are exhausted. Of the issues and problems that have been raised during the presentations and applications, appropriate instructions will be given to ministries and offices. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a draft decree was approved on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for July 2 - 5, 2002, as well as a draft decree on the order of the first session of the Supreme Council for the Fourth Call. We need these documents now, honourable national MPs. But in order to do that, we have to vote in favour of accepting these documents right now. I'm asking you to support me. I would like to ask the honourable national deputies to vote in order to immediately consider and adopt the schedule of meetings for 2-5, as well as the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth assembly. Please vote. People's deputies, please vote. Please support, as this is agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. [[10:49:20]] For the 250. Dear National Deputies! The agenda for the meetings. The factions, please. Thank you. There were 61 issues on the agenda for the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 2-5, 2002, at the Committee's proposals, and the factions and proposals were supported at the Conciliation Council yesterday for the current week. Among them are 7 urgent, 11 which the Government requests to consider in the first order and 3 in the ratification issues. Fourthly, on the day of the vote, the committees proposed to consider 20 laws with proposals by the veto of the President of Ukraine. We also need a question and a decision to grant agreement for the appointment of Pisk as Attorney General of Ukraine. We must also make a decision on the Government’s 2001 State Budget Report and the 2003 Budget Resolution. In addition, the Committee on Legal Policy is preparing for the approval of 120 judges on Thursday, as you can see, as respectable colleagues, the plan is rather tense and the Conciliation Council has supported it. Please confirm the schedule for the current week. Whether or not there is an insistence on the procedure. Please log in with the procedure for five minutes. Let's take a look at the board. National MP Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You didn't just name the bill the agrarians are asking for this Sunday. This is about amending the legislation on the taxation of imports of petroleum products, particularly diesel fuel, into Ukraine. We ask that we consider it this week in order to be able to vote by the end of the session. Otherwise, we will have the price of oil before the harvest. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u25	National deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u26	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u27	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you that you and I are breaking the rules that are shaping the agenda. We started this question with you, and we didn't solve it. I mean, we don't have an agenda for a session today. Therefore, we strongly suggest that, Mr. Chairman, we do not violate the Rules and first adopt the agenda for the session and then proceed to the day-to-day vote on this or next week. Dear colleagues! There is a serious danger, and it is she who is preparing. They'll give us the opportunity to vote on the agenda for the week, we won't be able to confirm it. That's why I'm saying it again. We insist that we vote first on the agenda for this session, and then we can talk about the agenda for this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u29	National MP Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u30	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I also insist that we should actually be okay. We must immediately adopt the general list of issues on the agenda and then move on to Monday. The fact is that he was also the author of Gurenko, Hara, Kravchenko's bill, which today requires immediate consideration by the end of this session is “to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises”. The point is that 46 mines in Donbass today are in bankruptcy. And in September and October, nobody's gonna need this law anymore. I would therefore like to consider including it in the general agenda before the end of the session and then proceed to the Monday consideration of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u31	People's Deputies are on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u32	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to pay attention to my distinguished colleagues that, despite the fact that the logic is to first vote the order of the day session, and then the schedule seems to be there, but still yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, it was agreed that we were voting first, because there was a question of the agenda for this week. Therefore, the chairman’s request is to put a timetable on the vote and move on to the order that was agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u33	National MP Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u34	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u35	People's Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make sure that the issues that the legislators are bringing to the list of issues that will be considered at the session, and that this will be considered and supported by colleagues, it is necessary to confirm the trust of each other and the faction of the faction, to vote on the general plan, the general order of the day session, and then to vote on the week. We voted for a week as a basis. 250 votes. Set now the general agenda for the session. And then we'll go back to this question, to the day-to-day issues. I believe that this will be entirely in line with the logic and regulations and arrangements that were on the Conciliation Council yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u37	National MP Pavlovsky, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u38	Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, the "Fatherland" party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the fact that before the session of the Supreme Council began, a preparatory group was set up that offered to accept. And we voted in favour of first adopting the order of the day session, and then logically, by clarifying, the order of the day takes place per week. Therefore, if we are to follow the Rules, we must conclude the matter. Moreover, it is included in the agenda, the question of adopting the agenda for the session. So we have to bring him to the end, that would be logical, no contradictions. And all of those are urgent, and voted both on the basis and that it should be considered first. And we're going to be able to get all the immediate bills to be adopted. So I want us to support the proposal of those colleagues who want to stand by the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. I'd like to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, it was agreed, and that is the logic that we approve the schedule for the week, and the second, after the schedule is confirmed, is the order of the day session. Such a decision was taken by the Conciliation Council. Because of this, there were no objections. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of the coming of proposals, especially since we voted on the first question, we need to complete it, that is, adopt a draft decree on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for July 2 - 5, 2002. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal of the Conciliation Council. Then we'll confirm -- there's also the unanimous opinion of the Conciliation Council -- the agenda for the first session. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the decision of the Conciliation Council. Please vote. [[10:58:44]] For 196 I'll have the factions, please. For the reasons of the vote, please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Head! There is no timetable for the meetings of the Supreme Council in itself, according to the Rules. The schedule of meetings is made for the consideration of agenda issues, according to the Rules. And so, according to chapter 2.4, first we need to approve the order of the day session, and then, on the basis of the approved agenda, we need to schedule the meetings of the Supreme Council to deal with the issues of the approved agenda. There can be no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u41	Thank you. People's MP, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u42	Dear Head! You will be the first Chief of the Supreme Council in history to work for an entire session without an approved agenda. Your colleague from the Presidential faction has just said that it would be logical to first establish the order of the day session. I'll tell you something else. Not only is this logical, but it is reasonable. What you're doing is alogic, it doesn't fit the Rules and it's stupid, because the first session is already over, and we still don't have a formal agenda for the day session, because only the approved agenda of the day session can be the basis for the calendar and work plan for every day and every week. So give up what you're doing, refuse to do anything stupid, allologically and against the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u43	I can only say one thing. Not commenting that the accusation of what's going on is the accusation of the entire Conciliation Council that made that decision yesterday. People's Deputies, please. It's the only Ukrainian faction. People's Deputies, please. None. National Deputy Gurenco, Ukrainian Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u44	Thank you, please pass the word to Kravchenk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u45	National MP Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u46	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a request, to remember that the decision of the Conciliation Council is a recommendation in nature and is determined by the Chamber. I would therefore like to return to the agenda of the session and the bill of 10.49, which is registered and which is not clear why I fell out of the list of drafts and issues allegedly decided by a committee that has not considered this issue and I would like to draw attention once again to the seriousness of the bill. This is an illegal diversion of public property into private hands. So this bill should be considered by the end of the session and I ask for Bill 10.49 to be put into the agenda of the session, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u47	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u48	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist faction. Please give the word to the head of the Alexander Frost faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u49	People's Deputy Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you ask the question the way you're asking it right now, then you don't have to gather the session at all. Then the Conciliation Council should resolve all matters. It doesn't make sense, really. A full session should now be scheduled to be held on the basis of the submissions or proposals made by the legislators, and we will consider the agenda immediately thereafter. Remember, in a week you need to close the session, and without the approved order of the day you will not be able to do so, you will put yourself in an ambiguous position. Do as you are advised, as Assadchev has said, that he has completely repeated the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u51	Thank you. National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u52	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We are well aware and aware that Thursday we came up with a struggle from which to get out. And this is not about asking the first question, which is asking the second question. It is clear that some particular group of deputies is very eager to talk and talk mainly about political issues. We are indeed awaiting solutions to economic problems and economic issues. We need a new income tax, we need to deal with agriculture today, with other issues of our industry. Therefore, the proposal that the agenda should be adopted for the week and move forward is the most reasonable and forceful decision taken at the Conciliation Council. And that's where we have to start. Once again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have not worked two cards here, so we have a proposal to put this matter to the vote again, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Time is up for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, since the First Proposal of the Conciliation Council did not find support in the Hall, it was suggested that the order of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be approved first and then the schedule of meetings for this week. Therefore, I now propose, honourable national deputies, to vote in favour of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1225 - "On the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fourth call, taking into account two proposals. There is a proposal to vote as a basis. Please, let's vote on the basis. Please vote on the basis. [[11:06:08]] For 158. I'll have the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we've all talked pathetically about what people expect us to do. You did not support the decision of the Conciliation Board. I ask you to put the vote again and vote in favour of the draft Order 1225 on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:07:01]] For-173 I'll have the factions, please. For reasons of vote, please register. For the reasons of the vote, please sign up. Please show me on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u55	National Deputy Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a chance to enter history as a session that cannot be closed. If we don't accept the agenda, we won't be able to close the session, we won't be able to do that to the Chief of the Supreme Council. We have the prospect of sitting here all summer and taking the order of the day. Let's take that into account. This is the first time. Secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you and I am addressing the majority who voted for you: where is the majority, where are these 226 votes, and why are they not voting for the agenda? What happened in this room, what's going on? And finally, the Conciliation Council, really, it's important, but its decision is a recommendation. This means that the Conciliation Council is working badly. If it offers decisions that do not support the hall, it means that it does not express the will of this room. What I'm offering. I propose to act in accordance with the Rules. Maybe we should take a break now. We haven't had a break in a while. We're used to working on breaks. And indeed, to vote first the agenda for the session, and then the agenda for the week. I don't think anything's gonna work out. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't have to push what doesn't. If it doesn't work, it's a question, it needs to be reconciled in such a way that it gets in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u57	The thing is, everything was settled yesterday. I don't know what changed in halftime. National Deputy Domansky, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u58	Please pass the word Mironenko to Victor Andreevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u59	People's MP Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, first of all, I join the remarks made by Deputy Kravchenk Nikolai Vasilievich. Secondly, yesterday, at the Conciliation Council of factions, there was outdated information concerning my draft regulation No. 1210 on the need for Ukraine to enter the Eurasian Economic Community “Euroses”. As the author of the draft resolution, I urge you to put draft regulation 1210 on the agenda. The introduction of this issue is extremely relevant and important, since Ukraine, without entering Euroses daily, is suffering significant losses that are irreparable. In addition to Euroses, the Customs Union, the actual free trade zone, including Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Ukraine and only two oil and gas products, lost more than $200 million in the first half of 2001, and with VAT more than $600 million in the first half of 2001. The labour teams of enterprises that previously produced products for these countries, and now almost simple, insist that Ukraine enter the Euroses. This requires members of all factions who understand the need to develop economic ties with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan to support the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u61	The People's Deputy of the Road, the People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u62	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. If the previous colleagues' proposals were about inclusion, I'd like to draw your attention to some of the bills that triggered the Conciliation Council's objections yesterday, and today in the Hall, the ruling was not adopted on the basis. I'm talking about draft regulation 1124. This is about the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on violations in the Donetsk region, Odessa, and Kirovograd. I'm talking about a draft of Decrees 1170 and 1171 on the investigation of the situation in the village of Sinzkov. Yesterday on the Conciliation Council, there was an argument that explained that an investigation was under way and that there was no need to interfere with the investigation. And I'm drawing your attention to Bill 1177 on initiating the impeachment procedure. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There's a proposal, it's agreed upon, and the People's Authority faction authorized me to speak on this, to remove the given numbers 1124, 1170, 1171 and 1177, and to put the draft Decree 1225 except for the four votes. It seems that in this situation in the hall she will gather the necessary number of votes and we will work quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u63	The nation's deputy is in charge, and time is running out. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u64	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u65	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! The last two votes fully confirm our warnings that we have been paying attention to at the beginning of today’s session. So the Presidential factions are not going to vote for the agenda for this session. They are even afraid of getting into the daytime order, and Mr. Roadway immediately confirmed the issues on which the opposition insists. They're even afraid of getting into the daytime. So, Your Honor Chairman, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin! I'm addressing you personally. You can see for yourself that then you don't blame the opposition that it's predicting, it happens that your colleagues in the presidential factions don't want to vote for the agenda. This might block the actual work of the two weeks that we have left to work on this session. Once again, we insist that we work on the arrangement that was there. That's the order of the day session to be confirmed. All the bills included, Mr. Roadway, and you denied on the same Conciliation Council, which, by the way, did not vote for any matter, and with all the bills included in the agenda to vote the agenda. Then you have your hands untied on this and next week. Dear colleagues! I ask not to block the work of our Parliament and vote together in favour of an agreed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Proposals were made to further include in the agenda of the first session of the Supreme Council the fourth call on the issue of mining bankruptcy, the amendment to the Ukrainian law, which relates to the provision of fuel-oil materials. In connection with the holding of the harvest, as well as the disfellowshipping of the harvest. One minute, I'm asking your attention! And also exclude from the draft decree positions 1124, 1170, 1171, 1177. Also include a draft decree on Ukraine's entry into Eroses. So three include, and four excludes, you understand the point of the proposal to everyone? I ask the honourable national MPs to vote on these proposals, and I ask the honourable national MPs to identify themselves. [[11:16:07]] For-179 I'll have the factions, please. What will be the suggestions? I'd like to ask you again with your motives. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u68	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have an offer for you. Given the fact that we have a lot of time left to do -- just two weeks, even less, I suggest you put in the agenda everything you're offered, without any restrictions. I think that's the right thing to do. We'll vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u69	National Deputy Konovaluk, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that one session is an organizational session and that it is different from the last sessions because, as required by the Rules, we form the governing and working body of the Supreme Council. The order of the day of these questions has been exhausted for you and me. That's why I also want to address the factions, the national deputies of Ukraine. You realize that we have two weeks left to work. So let's form a day order for these two weeks and work in a way that ensures that decisions are made that require: both social issues and economic problems, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u71	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for two weeks, I've been observing how skillfully you let a command vote or not vote in favour of the issues that are raised, but concerning the order of the day. I'm sorry, if the factions that came from the "For the One Ukraine" bloc today don't support the presidency, the question is, is it possible for us to do any more work? The following is the question of the exclusion from the agenda of the Kupian district, the village of Vlasovka, Kharkiv district. We have a proposal from the Agrarian Policy Committee that shows its relevance and timing. I think this is a matter for consideration. And yet I'm making a proposal: please put it again and look who's voting. You may need to react normally to the way they vote in order to take the basis and consider the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u73	National Deputy Tkachenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u74	The faction of the Communists of Ukraine, Tkachenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a request for you. I understand your position, your subjugation. Take a break for 20 minutes, you have something to do as Head of the Supreme Council, let the session be chaired by Vasiliev, and you will take away your sin before the President, and Vasiliev will put to the vote the message of the day or the question that in the message of the day about the order of work for the first session. And you will take away your sin, and we will vote, and the session will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u75	Thank you for your wise advice, Alexandre Mikolaiovich. National Deputy Kravchenko, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u76	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u77	People's MP Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u78	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Deputy Golub, introduced the 1255 Decision on the Celebration of the Century from the birthday of Jaroslav Alexandrovich Galana, a well-known Ukrainian publicist writer. The century is 22 July, and we need to take this decision, because there will be no time in the Cabinet of Ministers to respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u79	The People's Deputy of the Road, the Lord's Landing faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u80	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Roadmaster, the People's Landing. I'd like to bring the Chief's attention to you. Maybe there's been a mistake. 1170 and then 1170-1. It's a draft Decision on the situation that happened. It has nothing to do with machine building. It's about a criminal crime that happened in this village that's being investigated. And yesterday, on the Conciliation Council, pretty much argued our colleagues all heard that making any decision on this situation would be a violation of the Criminal Procedure Code. Interference in the course of the investigation. So what's going on with the machine building is that there's no problem here. But with regard to the violation of criminal law, perhaps the Supreme Council could refrain from interfering with this situation. And last of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would ask you not to blame all the factions for blocking something. Because the Supreme Council, and this is the Supreme Council's right to approve the agenda. And the Supreme Council decides whether it wants to or not. So there is a proposal to delete these four bills, to support proposals for bills and to re-vote them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals that have been made here are summarized as follows. National deputy Assadchev is to include all the proposals made by the legislators. National MP Konovaluk has a two-week work plan. In fact, the order of the day session, the first session of the fourth call, is a two-week work plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to unlock our work and let's perhaps do so. We vote for the basis and order of the first session, as well as the schedule for the second and fifth July sessions, taking into account the suggestions that have just been made. And we'll work. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to block the work of the Supreme Council, but you proposed to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and we discussed all these issues. Let's vote. Dear colleagues, there's a broadcast going on the street, and we're talking about solving urgent socio-economic problems, and at the same time there's a blocking of the session's work that's not clear why. I'm rephrasing the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote in the package on draft regulation 12.25 on the order of the first session of the Supreme Council for the fourth call, as well as the draft decree on the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second and fifth of July, at number 1280, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies, and this will be fair and objective. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote, and then we will be determined further in the process of work, what we will do with every specific bill or question. I ask you to vote, I vote. Please vote. [[11:25:55]] For-183 I'll have the factions, please. Dear colleagues, here I'm told there was a vague proposal. I mean, we're voting on two documents by including an additional proposal from Vascuk Catherine Timothy, a proposal from the National Deputy Kravchenko, the People's Deputy of Mironenko, and, instead, by excluding the items, draft documents which also include proposals from the People's Deputy of Mishur, this is document 1255, and I'm taking into account the proposal of the People's Deputy of the Road in relation to documents under headings 1124, 1170, 1173-1, 1177. Did I make up my mind? Ladies and gentlemen, with due regard to the clarification, please vote and approve the draft documents. Please vote. [[11:27:30.]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies, in view of the fact that it is necessary to hold a meeting of faction leaders, the Conciliation Council, I ask the factions to meet in the room in five minutes. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u82	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. People’s deputies are invited to come into the session room and take up their jobs. We'll continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, during the Conciliation Council meeting with the faction leaders, we agreed on the following: that we will now vote for the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take the fourth call on the basis of the proposals made by the people's deputies, with a view to voting on it in general on Thursday at the beginning of our morning session. Then vote without discussing the schedule of meetings for July 2-5 and continue our work. Is there no objection to such a question? Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We will now vote. People's deputies please come into the session room. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko! Dear colleagues! The question of acceptance is put to the vote on the basis of the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, taking into account the proposals made by the national deputies in this Chamber. I ask the National Deputies to be patient to listen until the end, and then to express their views on one or the other! Taking into account the proposals for complementing the agenda with those proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, including Peter Alexiyovich, a review of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and a report of the government. That way? Dear National Deputies! I'm drafting a question specifically for Alexander Alexander Frost. I would like you to vote on the question of voting on the basis of the order of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, taking into account the proposals of the National Deputies to supplement them with those bills and the questions proposed by the People's Deputies. Please make up your mind. [[12:39:54]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'll have the factions, please. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to take your seats so that we can make an effective decision. What's more, there are suggestions that the card didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u84	Dear colleague! We urge you to vote so hard that we can't do all of this. We will certainly vote. Dear National Deputies! At your suggestion, I'm re-voting the draft Supreme Council decree on the agenda of the 1st session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, issued by 1225 with the proposals of the National Deputies to supplement it with the bills that have been passed by you. Please vote this document on the basis. [[12:41:49]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I'll have the factions, please. Dear National Deputies! With motive? National Deputy Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Four main parliamentary groups went to the Supreme Council in general. It's our Ukraine, it's the only Ukraine!"the Communists, the Socialists and the Fatherland." Now "For Ukraine's One!" It's broken down into a lot of factions and it's not clear how they vote. I'd like to ask you, no matter how many of these subfactions a faction has broken down, which has taken a certain number of votes in the election, so that the total number of all the factions that were once part of "the only Ukraine" would be marked on the board to know how this sum is already being generated as a whole. Because as shown here, it's completely unknown how these people vote, and how they are bound by the same "For the One Ukraine." So I would ask that the sum of the blocks that won the election should be on the board. Otherwise, we cannot understand what is happening in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u86	Okay. The National MP, Blackyak, will be followed by a national MP, Bondarenko, who will be followed by the Traveller with a motive. National Deputy Cherniak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, there has not been a case where the session of the Supreme Council does not accept the order of the day. It's really a story that we can get into with this approach and maybe even get into the Guinness Book of Records. What's going on in the session room? What happens in the session room is political fornication. I once said this was the most disgraceful form of fornication. This is a testimony to the irresponsibility of the deputies to their electorate. I reiterate that 226 deputies voted in favour of today’s Supreme Council leadership. I'm going to ask you, where are these deputies now and where are their voices? When you voted for the leadership of the Supreme Council, for Lithuania as Head of the Supreme Council, you took responsibility for the work of the Supreme Council. Work! Form a day order! Vote! There is such an expression that if you vote in the majority, and if you are in the minority, speak. If you're the majority, let's vote, we'll take the agenda. By the way, our faction and I personally voted in favour of this agenda. Those people who voted in favour of the leadership of the Supreme Council do not vote and this is political fornication, this is deliberate blocking of the work of the Supreme Council, this is discrediting the Head of the Supreme Council and those who voted earlier in favour of Lithuania and are now voting against the agenda -- these deputies are discrediting the Head of the Supreme Council, and the main thing is discrediting Parliament itself, parliamentaryism. The electorate expects important decisions from economic issues on social issues. So far, we have not been able to accept the order of the day. I think this situation is totally rotten, and if we don't unlock this situation today, I think we're going to be honest and honest and we're going to be the people's deputies of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u88	Thank you. National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u89	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. Dear friends, experienced parliamentarians, and here most of them, understand that any matter that is included in the agenda can be blocked in its immediate consideration. So today's blockage, it's completely absurd and whatever question and how many questions we don't put into the agenda, they're only going to vote with the consent of the hall, then they're going to get 226 votes when there's an agreement in this room. What's the point of blocking what today? It's obvious that only one of you have presented the Head of the Supreme Council whom you've chosen, and you're making him, if you'll excuse me, a man who's incapable of running this hall. What is this for? Apparently for your representative in the Bureau to be discredited. And I think, dear friends, we need to establish the order of the day in the option that is proposed, and when we approach any question, then solve it depending on the schedule of forces in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u90	People's Deputies are on the road. He will be followed by a national deputy of the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, my fellow Members, and so many accusations are being made to the address of "the only Ukraine" that we are thus discrediting the Supreme Council, we should not do so. The head of the Supreme Council is in charge of the work of the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council is doing what it is capable of. But still, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to come out of the spirit, because the final reconciliation did not take place at the meeting, to put an offer to the vote that would allow it to be unlocked. As far as I'm concerned and the representatives of the People's Authority faction, the European Choice, that's the next offer. First. Include in the agenda the government's action programme, as the program is both introduced to the government's report and delete question 1177. This would allow for normal and normal voting for all factions. So I'm still coming out of the spirit of the meeting that took place, and I'm stressing that the final reconciliations didn't take place, and that's not surprising, but I'm still going to put to the vote the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine" to include the government's action programme, because it was introduced, the government's report and to rule out 1177 -- the question of impeachment to the President. In such a structure, it is possible to reach an agreement because there is a balance that makes it impossible to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u92	National deputy of the Head of State. He will be followed by a national MP, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u93	Dear Head, honourable Members, I am about to address a deputy who is a lawyer, headed a committee in the Supreme Council of the past, but it has not been legally determined who he represents in this House: the people who have chosen him, or the President. This duality, this political schizophrenia, sorry, has nothing to do with political professionalism. That's the first one. The second is about political and professional, legal professionalism. You, Mr. Roadside, should have known and you know that you have no right to deny the legislative initiative of any MP at the stage of shaping the agenda of the day session. People didn't choose me here to tell me that your bill didn't have the right to be in order for me to be in a day session, people chose me to actually go out on the stand and say, "I'm going to vote against the impeachment of Kuchma, because I'm licking in Kuchma all the places!" But right now you don't have the right to forbid me to include this bill in the agenda. So, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, you should have informed the Supreme Council that it was the Conciliation Council or what you called, that she came to include in the agenda of the day session all the bills that proposed to the people's deputies. And if the Bush forces don't want it, we really understand what it is. They're even afraid of getting into the agenda of the impeachment procedure, of starting the impeachment procedure, all of it, not looking at it. So what are you capable of if you can't protect your "poppa" in other ways than blocking our legislative initiatives?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u94	National MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u95	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we'll be trampling on the city for two more days if we don't go according to the Rules. We are now given the order of the day of the first session. We should vote on it as a whole and then as a basis, and then vote on all additions, deletions and changes. Please let us act according to the Rules. This will end the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u96	Thank you. The People's Deputy of the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u97	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko faction. Dear colleagues, we are indeed blocking the work of the Supreme Council, on a very primitive basis. We have said on several occasions in this Chamber that every national MP has the right to introduce some kind of legislation. If someone in this room does not like a bill that has been tabled by a people's MP or a group of people's deputies for consideration, any law may be approved or rejected in the course of consideration. Therefore, I do not see any legal objective basis for us to go into a deadlock today, except for one: apparently, the majority that voted for the current leadership of the Supreme Council and for the agenda that they have formulated do not want the opposition representatives to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council, but rather to the public, the bills that we are proposing. I propose that we understand that we should start working and work with basic respect for our colleagues. Therefore, I propose and appeal to you, to the leadership of the Supreme Council, that we now vote on the proposed draft as a basis and then make adjustments and express their attitude to them during the consideration of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u98	Since the name of the national deputy of the road was mentioned, he has a word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u99	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm not going to answer the images that came out of my mouth, unfortunately, of my teacher who used to lecture me. And the point is that the draft decree, which is made, is 1177, and it has appropriate conclusions and scientific expertise, and it has the appropriate conclusion of the Legal Authority. And it's clear to everyone that there's no way it's going through because there's no procedure. And yesterday at the Conciliation Council, they talked about it again. A very strange situation arises, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues. There are 127 laws that don't raise any questions. And we all agree that they can be included in the agenda. There's not a large fraction, with all due respect to all the colleagues who work in this faction, who insist on putting three bills into the agenda that actually excite the entire room and are unable to vote. So once again, Mr. Chairman, without answering these charges, because they have no grounds under them, I would ask you to put to the vote draft regulation 1225, which included two questions proposed by the faction "Our Ukraine" and deleted questions 11-77 and 11-24. This is also my constitutional right as a national MP, which is provided for by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! We are now voting on those proposals that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the National Deputy of the Roadway, which is to vote on the basis of the Supreme Council Order on the order of the day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly, this is number 1225. Having included a review of the Government's activities programme, the Government's report, as well as the bills and questions raised by the deputies, they are in the transcript and will be included in the draft decision, removing respectively two documents 1177 and 1124. Please vote on the basis of this project. Please vote. [[12:56:41]] For 169
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u101	For - 169, no decision is taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! The Zubov People's Deputy and the Rudzkowski People's Deputies proposed to adopt a draft order for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the fourth call, and then to vote for those proposals in additions that were put forward by the national MPs. I am voting on the proposal of the people's deputies Zubov and Rudzkowski to vote on the basis. I say again, the People's Deputies, we vote for the basis, and then we vote on every proposal that has been made from the mouth of the National Deputies. Please vote. [[12:57:48]] For-73 Dear colleagues! Let's do the factions. I'd like to say that you're fighting each other, and then you're accusing each other of this presidency. I'd like you to look for a common language. Dear National Deputies! I suggest we unlock our work. As a result, I propose to vote in favour of the meetings of the Supreme Council and to move on. Then, during our lunch break, we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council and determine what to do next. I beg you, let's unlock the Supreme Council's work. I point out once again that this is a normal civilised process, if there is a desire to work, then to reconcile the political interests. I am putting to the vote the issue of the approval of the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 2-5, and I ask you to vote, Your Honor. I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. [[12:59:14]] For 221 Dear colleagues! Please give by factions. I ask you once again, fellow officers of honor, honourable members of the people! I don't know how to talk. Let's unlock the session. All other questions will be answered. There is a suggestion to vote again because not everyone has arrived. I ask you to vote, honourable national MPs, honourable colleagues, please vote. Otherwise the session will be locked. Turn on the "Race" system, please vote. [[13:00:11]] For 212 In factions, please give. Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to sign up for the vote, please. Please point it on the board. National Deputy Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! We've gone the wrong way, and that's why we can't get to the bottom of this. The Supreme Council cannot be a filter for the legislative initiative of MPs. It can be defined as priorities: which bills will be considered earlier, which ones will be later. If we just try -- one side or the other -- to take away the MPs or groups of members of the legislative initiative, we're going to run into the result that we have right now. Therefore, it is only through the recognition of the right of legislative initiative to vote on all those projects that are proposed that we can unlock the work of the Supreme Council. This is where Deputy Zadrožnoj said that the impeachment bill has no prospect. I think he has reason to believe that. Then why block the work of the Supreme Council so that a bill that has no prospect is not put into the agenda? We can then express our view of every bill, vote against it. If you have a voice, you'll always block it. But attempts to block the day’s order at the formation stage, without the ostrich majority, are doomed to failure and are destined to block the work of the Supreme Council. So I propose to vote on the proposal made today by the Head of the Supreme Council and to save the Head of the Supreme Council, to save Parliament, to save our vacations. Otherwise we won't be able to, once again, close the work of the Supreme Council. So when we vote for all the proposals, we get out of the situation, and then, I don't think we're going to even consider the many issues that have been proposed here. Hence, there is no real threat. Let's stop the blockage and vote for all the proposals that have been proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u103	Thank you. National Deputy Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u105	People's Deputy Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u106	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I repeat my offer. Put to the vote a draft regulation on the agenda of today's session, including all additional proposals from MPs, legislators, including Dustyenko, Vaszuk, etc. Because deletion is a second reading procedure. We will find out this procedure on Thursday before the final vote of this project. I repeat, the offer is very simple. It's on paper for you. Put to the vote a draft decree with all the additions made by the legislators. We will vote in favour of this decree, and immediately in favour of the 2-5 job order.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u107	National MP Puzakov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u108	None. Zubov People's Deputy, Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u109	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block. Please pass the word to the Turkish Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u110	The Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u111	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You know, I feel like we don't have to gather Conciliation Councils, because we agree to vote for the agenda, for including all issues in the agenda, and the presidential factions refuse to vote. We did not understand that position. But the chairman himself asked them. So there's a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich, about your influence on these factions. We need to gather them for meetings and hold meetings, and then we need to be invited. That's the first one. The other one. I'm talking to the national MPs who are afraid to vote on the bill that your colleagues are proposing to put into the agenda. Dear colleagues, you may also be in a situation where your bill from some political or personal position will be rejected. It is impossible to deprive each other of the constitutional right to propose bills for consideration by the Supreme Council. You will have the opportunity, Your Honor, to convince Kuchma that you are very concerned about him when this law will be discussed on the committee when it will be discussed in the Supreme Council. Then you can prove to Mr. President your position, your honor before him. Now don't embarrass yourself or him. Let's vote in favour of the agenda, for including all the bills in this agenda, and for unlocking the session. Our proposal remains, and, Your Honor Chairman, we suggest we hold a meeting with your representatives, your presidential factions, and convince them not to embarrass themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u112	People's deputy Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u113	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Of course, common sense and logic in our work should dictate what we should, should vote in favour of all these proposals, a list of issues that today envision this whole set for the first session. But when a dozen votes fail, I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, offer such an offer. To still unlock the work of the Supreme Council, to understand what's the main question, whether one of the issues that makes it impossible to accept the list of issues for the first session of the Supreme Council is the question of the beginning of the impeachment, and we understand that impeachment can begin when there is an appropriate law, which unfortunately, until the Supreme Council has been able to adopt. So this question is removed from the list, including the government’s report. And I hope that in this option the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council will generate the necessary number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u114	Time's up? One more minute. National MP Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u115	The position of the Socialist faction of Ukraine is understandable and transparent. We believe that neither the speaker nor the Conciliation Council nor Mr. Road have the moral or legal right not to bring to the attention of the session the issues that are proposed by (a) the deputies, (b) the faction. All the bills that have been introduced at this time should be a basis. And then let's define, of course, a calendar plan to look at them. And you don't have to build here, you're afraid of one thing that you'll miss out on the agenda, which will then require only 150 votes that we, in opposition, certainly have. But with such success it means blocking because of your political preferences to Mr. Kuchma blocking all the economic laws that really need to be resolved in our state. That's why all the bills have been tabled to vote as a basis without exception, including "His Majesty" of the Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-07-02-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, two suggestions have been made. I will now put them to a vote in the order they were put to. The first offer of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen carefully to the wording for which we will vote: to vote on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the timetable. on the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call at 1225 with all proposals for inclusion of issues and no proposals for exclusion. Was it the right offer, Alexander Alexandrovich? I'll put it to a vote, please. This is essentially the same proposal offered by the Blackyak People's Deputy. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[13:10:31]] For 214 The factions. The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows, I make the following proposal, as expressed by National MP Kendzior. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. "Adopt the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call of 1225, excluding 1177 documents and including all proposals made by the People's Deputies, including the government's programme of activities and the government's report." Do you understand the wording? People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:41]] For 178. For the faction, please give. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we continue our work and accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote. Now we're giving a protocol commission: all the suggestions that have been made to include them in the agenda of the day's first session, and then we're voting for them on Thursday, and now we're going to vote in favour of the session schedule. Dear colleagues, now take the meeting schedule for July 2nd to 5th this year. I'd like to ask respectable colleagues not to block, including the National Deputy Stretovic. What is more, we are now reaping the fruits of the political concessions of our committees. I'll put a vote on the schedule of meetings for July 2-5. Please vote. [[13:13:25]] For 172 The factions, please. I don't think there's anything to be happy about because we're infertilely wasting our time. Dear colleagues, I propose to approve the meeting schedule for today. Order of the day for July 2nd, I will continue our work and seek suitable compromises. I ask you to vote in favour of the day's session of the Supreme Council today on July 2nd, please vote, Your Honor. [[13:14:21]] For-162 I thank you for your desire to work. Dear colleagues, I propose to hold a faction meeting at 3:30 p.m. Faction leaders gather to discuss the situation. I think we need to do everything we can to unlock the session. A break of 16 hours is announced.
