ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies are invited to take up their jobs and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:02:58]] Registered -410 There were 410 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Dusty Peter Alexiyovich. Let's say hello, we want all kinds of goodies. [[Applause]] In line with the Rules today, the Supreme Council takes decisions. Please, from the procedure, Peter Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u2	Thank you. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction, I am addressing you and asking you to support our position: to consider the first draft of decree 2220, which we have made, on the political situation in Ukraine, and to consider this draft decision will answer the questions that we have asked from the outset, analysing the political situation and its consequences. And the will of our people, who have come to these numerous rallies, demands that we give a certain assessment. I would also like to base our demands on the fact that, on September 23, at the Kirovgrad Motor Vehicle Company Orbitatrans, which, from an economic and financial situation, gave people the opportunity to move and come to Kiev today, what is being done with this company. The district and local U.S.A. under the direction of the head of the Power government, in a direct sense, has just blocked the operation of this company. Since September 25, the group has been out of work, out of work. No machine is ever released by DAI’s employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u3	Peter Mikolaiovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u4	At 7: 00 a.m., a city tax inspection with a district traffic agency stopped the business altogether. These are examples that are not unique, so we insist that we urgently consider this draft regulation in the first place. And only then will we be voting on other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u5	Thank you. Lucenka, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u6	Lucenko, faction of socialists, Vladimir Mikhailovich, socialists. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a political internal crisis that has matured in Ukraine and is marked by thousands of demonstrations throughout Ukraine. The rally's resolutions yesterday were despite attempts to communicate with the national MPs through machine guns handed to the President of Ukraine. But the external crisis in Ukraine also began. Ukraine is faced with the possibility of applying international sanctions to it for violating the trade regime with legging countries. We believe that suffering does not come from the people of Ukraine, not from the State of Ukraine, but from criminals who have taken such a decision in the process of sanctions. Therefore, the issue of the political situation in Ukraine becomes even more relevant in the Supreme Council. All necessary documents were submitted to the Secretariat within the appropriate time limit. We insist that this is the issue that is being addressed today in the Supreme Council. Without that, our faction will not vote in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u7	Turkinov, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u8	Dear colleagues and honourable chairman, the faction of Yulia’s bloc, Timoshenko, insists on an urgent review of the decision on the political situation in Ukraine. In the case of the honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his colleague, when this decision is not considered in the absence of a positive vote on this decision, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc refuses to participate in other matters at all. We ask you very much to listen to our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u9	Who's from "Our Ukraine"? Philenko, national MP, from our Ukraine, please. I'm just warning you, one minute, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I'm hereby authorized to announce the statement of the faction of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council. According to our faction, the political crisis has changed to a qualitatively new level in Ukraine. The government did not even want to go into a dialogue, practically bankrupting society, for it was not only unable to show the way out of the deaf corner but even rejected the solutions to the situations that had been offered to it. The oligarchization, the clan’s peaks gained momentum after the appointment of the leader of the KFOR clan as head of the presidential administration. Clan's power has been completely cut off from society, not accountable to representative authorities, and there are no laws written for it. Marginal in its political nature, it exists only for self-preservation. The "Our Ukraine" faction has a consistent position, taking the initiative to form the majority and the government of national trust. "Our Ukraine" is a political force representing the interests of more than 6 million Ukrainian voters. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u11	Please. Last sentence, let me say the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u12	That is why we are now responsibly expressing our position not to vote in the order of the day session until the Supreme Council at its meeting considers the political situation in the country. Without such consideration of the further normalization of the political situation, the adoption of any legislative acts will be impossible in our view. Victor Yushchenko, head of the faction, signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u13	Yes, the procedure is over. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal for inclusion in the agenda, there's two questions that we have, I want to remind you. Listen, please, I want to remind you of two questions that we should have included in the agenda. And until the People's Deputies of Our Ukraine have left, I want to remind you that if the work of the Supreme Council fails, the month of the Supreme Council will be counted down from tomorrow, according to the Constitution, when the Supreme Council will be incapacitated. And I would ask you not to test your nerves. Well, can I scare you? I can, can't I? Ladies and gentlemen, we've been scheduled for factions and groups to propose two issues of inclusion in the agenda of the meetings for consideration today. First, I want to. Listen, please. Dear colleagues, listen. The draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine is number 2220. And there was the insistence of the national MPs to include. And 2213 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists. So I'm going to put two of these proposals in a row. I would like to calculate the second proposal that started the subscription and, as the Law of Ukraine reads, the corresponding Stateform will lead to the improvement of the printed media. We need to consider and adopt an appropriate law. At the request of four factions, I put to the vote a draft decree on the political situation in Ukraine, the inclusion of it in the agenda, 2220. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! There was an offer, respectable colleagues. Oh, wait, please! You've already said, let me vote! It was suggested that the daily draft of Decree 2220 should be placed in order to be considered today. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please be sure. [[10:12:22]] For-96 To 96. The factions. Yes, dear colleagues, the second question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists on the Value of Subscription Services. This is draft Law 2213. I ask you to vote that we consider this law. Please vote. [[10:13:02]] For the 220. For - 220, no decision is taken. Dear colleagues, then we'll talk about protection, about freedom of speech, but you don't want to support very important things. I'll put it to the vote again, please. Please vote. [[10:13:34]] For 223 Dear colleagues, I'm asking for the factions. And journalists, please pay attention to who cares about the media. Let's move on to work. Dear colleagues, this is a draft regulation on the creation of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the crisis in Ukraine's aviation. Reporter Lovín Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Ukraine had an unthinkable aviation power on the day of independence: 4 airlines, 15 largest aircraft repair companies, Antonov design bureau, Motorsic aircraft design office, 2 aviation institutes, 3 top military aviation schools, about 1,500 civil aircraft, over 6,000 military aircraft. It's practically all worked. To date, the situation is catastrophic. The U.S. Air Force is a national air carrier with only three fixed-wing aircraft: two small TU-134 and one TU-154. Air Force units are correct in air operations. The correctness of combat aviation is falling sharply down. Aviation factories, like aircraft, are virtually out of service. During the years of independence, about 80 per cent of aviation capacity was unable to properly implement any new aviation product of domestic production. The series of aviation catastrophes involving huge human casualties has shaken the awareness of Ukrainian citizens and of all mankind. This is a consequence of the deep crisis in the country's aviation. The crisis covered military and civil aviation with exactly the same signs and causes as its bearers. Among the most significant reasons are the sharp decline in the quality of aviation training, the almost complete destruction of the flight training system in Ukraine. For several years summer education institutions have issued pilots without flight practice, without a single hour of flight. In combat regiments, the first sheringa is the pilots who are the most experienced and experienced not to fly. There is an ageing of flight personnel. The average age of flight is now more than 40 years. I'll tell you what. I am 41 years old, and I consider myself young in aviation. The pilots flying the US 27 at Sknilov were 49 years old and the pilots were 45 years old. That's a lot for a fighter pilot. Critical status of the fleet of aircraft. More than 80 per cent have lost their airworthiness to date. There is no real state programme for modernization, leasing, replacement of the park by modern aircraft and helicopters. This programme, which is not being adopted, is not being implemented, the low rate of development of the aviation industry, the lack of product competitiveness, the lack of real State support, the process of building the Ukrainian aviation market, the seizure of national assets by foreign air carriers. The very low level of executive discipline among the country's top aviation managers, the sharp decline in security. The analysis shows that over the last 10 years, we will say, hopefully, that there have been twenty major aviation disasters that have led to the deaths of more than 400 people. The question is: " Why did this happen, and who benefits from it?" This question will only be answered objectively by the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I and the group of deputies propose to establish. The establishment of this commission is in full conformity with article 89 of the Ukrainian Constitution, as well as with article 8.4.4 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. The main areas of the Commission are aviation security and, above all, the security of all users of our State's airspace. The use of Ukrainian laws and legislation on aviation by top-ranking managers, the personal responsibility of senior aviation managers to protect the national interests of the development of Ukrainian aviation and the defence of the State. The adequacy of the actions of the Ukrainian aviation authorities to the requirements of the President of Ukraine of the Government of the Supreme Council on the integration of Ukraine into the European Union and compliance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization of the CCA. Legality and effectiveness of the expenditure from the State budget for the development of Ukrainian aviation. Thus, the interim investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the crisis in aviation of Ukraine falls under the control of all the executive bodies, enterprises, organizations involved in the development, manufacture, testing and certification, licensing, operation, repair, modernization of aviation technology, aviation security, efficiency in the use of the aviation market. I ask that draft regulation 2111 be removed from the vote, since 2111-d is more fully consistent with reality and worked with virtually all the heads of factions. And I thank the factions and those deputies who have supported us in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u15	Thank you. Do you have a question for the reporter? Please, Alexander Frost, let me ask you a question. 0: 20:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I turn to the rapporteur with an offer. Of course, there must be such a commission and other commissions. You know, the president also suggested that we set up a commission that looked at the whole arms trade situation since 1991. But there may be a selective approach to the work of the commission. If it's convenient, let's say, the President's Administration will do it, and if it doesn't, it'll be appropriate to give no data, no documentation -- nothing. So there's only one way out. We can create such a commission, but only after the President has signed the bill of temporary commissions that the Supreme Council has voted in accordance with the Constitution. I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you contact the President and have him sign the law voted two years ago. And we're going to take down all the problems, and we're going to work effectively on the commissions that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The rapporteur suggested that the draft regulation 2111 be withdrawn and voted in favour of the 21st. If there's no objection, I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? A revised draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the crisis in the aviation of Ukraine on the basis of 2111-d. Please vote. [[10:22:14]] For 219 The factions. In factions, please give. What suggestions, please? Ah, special! Dear colleagues, the decision is made, yes. What are the comments, suggestions? You don't? I'm putting in draft regulation 2111-d as a whole. Please vote. [[10:23:02]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u19	What about the order of the day? How was it not included? Take the schedule and take a look, please. I'm saying take a look at the schedule. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want? [[B in m in s a l in]] It is included in the schedule of meetings. This was the schedule of meetings agreed upon on the Conciliation Council. That's 150 enough. I put it on the vote as a basis, not for inclusion. Let's get back to work. Dear colleagues, you have a project under consideration. I put in for inclusions that didn't vote on two issues. Valentin Grigorovich, it's on schedule. What do you want? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, this is the draft decree for the creation of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the study of the enforcement of legislation and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens during the preparation and holding of the "Resurrection, Ukraine, 16 September 2002" campaign."a draft group of national MPs. Is there a need to report, Sergey Leonidovich? I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote as a basis. Please vote. Please don't vote. [[10:25:10]] For 196 Decision taken. What are the additions, proposals? You don't? Please. One minute, let the man speak. Calm down, please. Please turn on the microphone. National MP Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u20	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Well, something we're not just doing today, it's yesterday. We only have terminology here: criminal law, criminal case, commission of inquiry, temporary commission of inquiry. We will soon turn the Supreme Council into a shadow of the NCCD. We'll be back there by 1937. This is not our main job! We have to make laws. Surrender! I'm going to the left and the right, first of all, to the right. Let's get back to the normal rhythm of work, and we're just creating commissions. Of the 25 committees set up by the Supreme Council, no one has yet completed the work or reported to the Supreme Council. It's an empty job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u21	Yes, the position is clear. From the procedure of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to agree with my colleague Bandurko that we need to figure out how many of our investigation committees we have, indeed. They've been made, but they don't work, or they're not allowed to work, or they're ignoring the subject. Now, about the procedure for today's consideration of issues. And on the first one, on draft Decree 2221, and now, more faithfully, on the previous 2111 and now on the 2221, the Supreme Council Rules are being violated. These questions, first of all, were to be put to the vote as chairman of the sitting to include them in the agenda of the session, not today's plenary session. And then a report from the rostrum could report these projects. This is how it must be done. So I would like to point out to you that there is no need for the presiding officer to violate the current Rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u23	I, Mr. Valentin Grigorovich, want to say that during the discussion of events 16 and 17 the issues were discussed, it was included in the agenda, and today we are responding accordingly. If there's no other objection, I'm putting in the entire draft decree number 2221. Please, who's there? Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I'm not motivated, I'm procedural. I would like to point out that this committee member happens to be from the Democratic Initiatives, written by Alexander Markovich Bandurko. I suggest we switch to Karatumanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u25	All right, all right, all right. There's no objection. I would like to vote on draft decree 2221 establishing a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council for the study of the enforcement of legislation and the provision of the constitutional rights of citizens during the preparation and holding of the "Resurrection, Ukraine" campaign on 16 September 2002. All in all. Please vote. [[10:29:45]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your consideration is under way. The factions. The question of the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council for the analysis of the state of affairs in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the process of reforming them, the generalization of the problems in this area, and the preparation of proposals in connection with the holding of the Government Day of Ukraine on November 12, 2002. Georgi Korniyovich, is there a need to report? Georgi Korniyovich, yours. Draft decision on preparation for the day. Is there a need? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In our decision to hold the Government's Day to discuss the state of affairs in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we approved the establishment of a temporary special commission to examine in detail the state of affairs in the military, the process of reforming the Armed Forces, generalized the problems in this area and prepared proposals. A draft decision on the composition of this Temporary Commission is now being made. Our committee is asking her to support it. And there is a request to the leaders of the faction of Block Timoshenko, the "Regions of Ukraine", the "Agrarians of Ukraine" and "The People's Government" to invite their representatives to this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? No questions or objections? I am voting on the draft decree number 2235 on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to analyse the state of affairs in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the progress of their reform, the generalization of the problems in this area, and the preparation of proposals in connection with the holding of Ukrainian Government Day on November 12, 2002. I'm putting the draft ruling on the ground. Please vote. [[10:32:02]] For 228 To -228. Changes, additions? You don't? I'll put it all to the vote. Please be supportive. Now let's show you when the final result is, we just haven't made it. [[10:32:25]] For 222 For -226. Dear colleagues, I'll take another bet. Check the cards, please. I'm betting on the whole draft regulation. Please vote. [[10:32:54]] For 227 For -227, the decision is made. At least 150 votes. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. By factions, please, by factions. Well, don't make any noise, it'll all be done, but don't shout, please! Dear colleagues. Gmira's folk, please. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think you've just broken the Rules a little bit. Indeed, under the Rules, you can put a question to the vote if the MPs turn from the microphone and say, well, that was not the case. Vladimir Mihajlovich, where was the statement from the deputy? Well, let's not break the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u29	The National MP of Samofal. Please, he said that the card didn't work, and there were 150 votes, you know that. I just want everything to be clear. Dear colleagues, this is the draft of the Decree on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sufric, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Budget. The committee has considered and proposes to take the appropriate decision. Is there no need to discuss? I ask you, Your Honor, to vote. Please be supportive. [[10:34:46]] For 218. For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm voting on the draft Decision "On the Election of Ukraine's People's Deputies as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations," the Committee suggests support. I'm betting on a draft ruling as a whole. Please make up your mind. [[10:35:22]] For 203 For 203. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's go to the draft law on prevention and resistance to legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Second reading. Reporter to the First Deputy Head of the Committee. From the procedure? Please turn on the microphone of the National Infantry MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, we don't have a sign at all. We need to check our system because it turns out that when we look at factions, where a man doesn't vote, he keeps the button. We'll press the button on time when the circle has gone. But it won't burn at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u31	I'm asking you, the service is in order, to check.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u32	Request for a vote on two previous decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, if it's your will and your insistence, we'll come back later. They'll check the system and we'll keep going. I'm asking you to check the jobs of whoever has them. I invite the reporter, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Victor Volodymyrovich, please. Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I believe that in view of the political situation that has taken place in our room, given that the rapporteur is a representative of another faction who has left the room, I believe that if we do not vote in favour of this law, we will leave him alone in a large circle. In this regard, I propose that, in the absence of a rapporteur, the consideration of this bill be postponed. We won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u35	Sergey Vasilovich, please report and we will consider the bill. Why run it around the circle? This is the second reading, we're going to have a third reading. Please, for reasons of interest, the People's Deputy Kluev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have dealt with this issue in faction and there is ambiguity of opinion, there is a proposal to support Deputy Burjak and move this issue to the next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u37	Osik’s national deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues! ‘ I want to draw everyone’s attention to this more than important question. Here are the national MPs of party or one-person programs of each in one form or another hard-pressed the issue of a determined fight against money laundering, corruption, and so forth. When it comes to the matter and there is, ready for the second reading of the draft law, we begin to hesitate. I urge all who have political responsibility and a political approach to the interests of the State to consider and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u39	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, no matter how much we agitate each other, this law is complex and understandable, the powers given to either the financial intelligence of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration will not govern everyone. I have an offer for you as Head of the Supreme Council. Either now, or during a break, to gather still authorized representatives from each faction and today, without putting it in a long box, to resolve the issue of reconciliation of positions. Yesterday at the Coordinating Board, I remind my distinguished colleagues, there were almost two issues that were not agreed upon. On the coordination board, we just took them off. Perhaps the factions who were present yesterday either did not inform the honourable colleagues or there are other questions. These are very simple questions. There is a proposal, I repeat it, to gather a small meeting, to reconcile and not postpone voting under this bill, because we all realize that it is essential for our state to avoid further sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u41	National MP. Excuse me, Finance Minister Jusko Igor Olegovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I think there is no person in this room today who would have felt or knew the consequences of rejecting this law. I'm asking you to support that proposal made by the People's Deputy of the Road, but today we have to make a definitive determination with this question from the point of view of a positive solution. I don't often go to the session room from this place or from the rostrum, but I very much ask everyone to be extremely responsible about this question, because this question has very serious economic consequences that can be overcome over a month or even a year is virtually impossible. I thank you so much for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u43	Konovaluk, and then Kirilenko. And Karmazin, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to agree with the presiding position and remind you that the second reading procedure is now under way and that we should consider specific articles in the room, which we do not agree with, and accept in the second reading. And then send for the third reading, for the final reading of the bill. Therefore, I believe that we will never find out from a separate article where great powers are given to fiscal and supervisory authorities. And I think it's a political decision that we have to take into account in terms of international financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u45	Kirilenko, the "Agrarians" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we spoke last time and are now confirming our position. To us, to each of the faction deputies, dozens of calls a day from agricultural producers. The parameters in this bill -- 10 and 50,000 euros -- are the cost of a simple cultivator. A private owner now owns the village. The cost of national agricultural technology: tractor, combine - much more expensive! So you realize that it can be done in rural areas, not just reform, it's not just processes. We insist, with the insistence of our agrarian electorate to change parameters -- 100,000 euros and 250 dollars -- zero. Then we will vote in favour of this bill. We must protect the private agricultural owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u47	I think we're going to vote because money laundering within the limits of what's not happening is much larger. But this is in the process of reviewing the bill. National Deputy Carmazin. And Tihypka. And we'll finish. And Burjak. And let's, let's not turn into a discussion without meaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, I am addressing the Minister of Finance, I am addressing all national deputies and the people of Ukraine. Understand that what is now being read in the second form of the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime, and what violates the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Confiscation of Proceeds Received by Crime, 1990, ratified by Ukraine, which is what will be called in Ukraine. So I'd like to draw your attention to two tables from September 10th that were given to us on behalf of the committee, and I would like to emphasize that one table of September 10 was distributed, and yesterday a table was given, too, from September 10th, a committee meeting. So Burjak asked for this bill to be drafted correctly because it introduced the concept of prenatal crime in the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u49	Turn off the microphone, please. National Deputy Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The question is so serious and so important to the whole country that I think that the statement that we wrote you and John Grigorovich Kirilenko from the agrarian faction, we would like to use now for a break. Invite the finance minister, the heads of all factions, to find out everything. And after that, it's time to prepare for the speech of the chairman of the committee in question, Mr. Burjak, and then make an effective vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sergey Leonidovich, we'll be off at 12 o'clock. I suggest we gather in the warehouse where you suggested that we discuss what the time would be. I'd like the committee to prepare for the report. I want to remind you once again, dear colleagues, we have double standards and double morals. On the one hand, sanctions and the country are said to suffer as if it were an illegal arms trade, and here, if this law is not passed, the country will suffer. Everyone's quiet. But let's take care of the country the same way. I'm telling everyone. After 12 hours, we will return to the matter. You are being reviewed by the draft law on amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. Second reading. Reporter Terjehochin. Sergey Vasilovich, who will report from the committee? Please turn on the Burjak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to be heard in this room. I stress that, given the importance of the previous bill under which Ukraine will be penalized, we must approach this issue more responsibly. And if we have at least the slightest fear that this bill will not be voted on, it will be postponed, I stress, to another session. With regard to the Tax Bill, given that the country will live on it for at least ten years, given that 60 per cent of the Tax Code, I ask you not to take these laws formally. Therefore, as Chairman of the Committee, I ask that these laws be transposed until consensus is found in this Chamber. So now we're going to vote in the reading cycle, we're going to dial 221 votes again, and then we're going to say that the Supreme Council, it's not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u53	Sergei Vasilovich, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u54	Well, we don't have the moral right to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u55	You introduced this project, and on Monday at the Conciliation Council, you agreed on this issue. Why is such a problem now? I don't understand. Why was it just now that he wasn't ready? National MP Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u56	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, this must be said honestly and frankly, why such a situation has arisen with this bill and for us here, I do not want to say so, to blame my colleagues, but nevertheless, this morning alone, the version of second reading has been handed over to the deputies. This is indeed 60 per cent of the Tax Code. I'm not going to judge right now whether it's a good bill or a bad bill, because in just about 15-20 minutes, it just wasn't possible to study the essence of the bill. Therefore, on the basis of the procedure before the second reading bill, I now propose that the bill should not be rejected, but simply withdrawn in order to abide by all the rules of procedure and to postpone it until the next day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u57	The committee asked for time.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u58	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have an offer from the committee. As far as I'm concerned, the honourable colleagues on the corporate income tax law are concerned, this bill is in order for us to read another day. The Committee on Finance and Banking carefully considered the bill. And a proposal by the committee, taking into account the amendments that came to the committee, to adopt and vote this bill in second reading, and to send it to third reading. During the third reading process, work on it. Thank you for your attention. I stress that the Committee on Finance and Banking proposes that the bill be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the amendments that have come to the committee, to send it to third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u59	Martinuk Adam, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, you are a national deputy, thank God, not the first day. You are making some very interesting novel in our Rules. I've never seen one like it, and you probably haven't seen one in nine years of your parliamentary activity before, and one day we'll look at it in a third reading. The third reading deals only with articles that did not agree, did not pass, did not pass, in the voting of each article of the law in the second reading. Then the session can be moved to a third reading. Sergey Vasilovich, if a deputy who had just arrived suggested this, it would be understandable. Do not deceive yourself or the sessional room, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u61	Sergei Vasilovich, come on, maybe after the break we'll come back and prepare. Dear colleagues, after a break, we will return to this question. You are considering a draft of the Law on Fish, Sea Products, and Food. Second reading. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy, the Land Relations of Swatkov Leonid Borisovich. Please, Leonid Borisovich. How long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, was first discussed in January of this year. In preparation for the second reading, 40 comments and suggestions were received by the national deputies. Practically all comments and suggestions are taken into account. This law takes into account the requirements of Ukrainian laws: the quality and safety of food and food raw materials, the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare for the population, the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act and the confirmation of conformity. The draft law aligns national legislation with international legislation, including European Union directives on ensuring the quality of fish production and other water resources. The Committee on Agrarian Politics, land relations, reviewed this law and suggested that it be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u63	Okay. Let's go to the repairs now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u64	Corrections are practically all taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let's make these adjustments now. Yes, the name of the law, the amendment is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u66	There is a proposal to vote in general, virtually all counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u67	What is in the second reading as a whole? Dear colleagues, no objection to the hall? No one insists on their amendments? I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the draft of the Fish, Sea and Food Act, as a whole, second reading. Please vote. [[10:54:32]] For 223 In factions, please explain. The factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus, keep an eye on the vote. I'm voting on the draft of the Fish, Sea and Food Act, as a whole, second reading. Please take your seats. Please vote. [[10:55:28]] For 225 Once again, I ask you carefully. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, see if your cards worked. I'm betting on the vote, my esteemed colleagues, as a whole, on the second reading of the draft of the Fish, Sea and Food Act. Please vote. On the second reading, in general, I ask you to vote. [[10:56:08]] For 224 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on licensing certain types of farming in tribal matters is being introduced. [[second reading]] Reporter to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Sergey Tereshuk, faction of Ukrainian agrarians In December 1999, the Ukrainian Law on Tribal Affairs was passed. The prescribed law provided that subjects of tribal affairs in animalry who would perform certain functions of tribal affairs should be allowed to do so. But with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities, it is established that the only document of a permissive nature can be a license. I emphasize that the Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities was later adopted. In this regard, the Supreme Council prepared and adopted in its first reading a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of certain types of farm activity in tribal matters. This law recognized those activities that were subject to licensing. It's the production and storage of tribal genetic resources, genetic expertise, certification tests. resources, official billing. Two years after the adoption of the law, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences prepared a number of legal and regulatory acts aimed at the implementation of the law. Tribal subjects have been evaluated and their rights and responsibilities determined. Therefore, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, when considering a second reading of the draft Ukrainian law, has decided to shorten the list of tribal activities subject to licensing and which have been reflected in the draft version of the bill adopted in the first reading. The committee therefore proposes to introduce licensing for activities that are crucial to enhancing the genetic potential of animals and to make the industry profitable. In particular, production, storage, implementation of tribal resources, genetic analysis of animal origin and anomaly. And on the basis of the above, the Committee proposes article 1 of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the introduction of licensing for certain types of breeding activities in tribal matters in animal production, conservation and implementation of tribal resources, genetic expertise, origin and animal anomaly. Further text of Ukraine’s draft law should be left in the form adopted in the first reading. I mean, a slight amendment. The adoption of the bill will allow for effective State control in the area of tribal affairs in the field of animal farming, the use of inequitable tribal resources to be used for reproduction, the involvement of highly qualified professional personnel in the selection field, and the granting of licences for the establishment of certain types of activities to subjects, depending on their qualifications, organizational, technological and other capabilities. Deputies! It is particularly relevant to develop and adopt this bill in view of the complex exosotic situation and the spread of dangerous diseases, which makes it impossible to import tribal resources and requires balanced government regulation in the use of animal gene pools. I ask the committee to support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u69	Dear colleagues. Do you have a question? Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my colleagues, I am not concerned with this document, but I am obliged to remind you and my colleagues of what the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules stipulate that every MP is obliged to vote in person. I realize that there is a saying at the level of the household that, if you can’t do it, you can do it. But this is a meeting room of the Supreme Council and no one is allowed to violate the Constitution and the Supreme Council regulations. Do not create an opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court to challenge the decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u71	Thank you. Melniczuk, National Deputy, please, Faction Department,
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Honorable reporter, whether this is true of those farms that today have permission to do tribal work. These are the tens and hundreds of thousands of such farms. Does this not mean that tomorrow these farms, which in a difficult economic state, will begin to pay for appropriate licences to continue the tribal work that they have done for decades? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u73	Thank you. I ask you not to answer that question. We're voting on the amendments. If you have any suggestions there, they've been taken into account; there's no-- let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u74	The only proposal was an agrarian committee that was included. There were no more proposals for the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I'm putting you to a vote, pay attention! I'll put it to the vote! Please prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to stop rallying there and sit in your workplace. Dear colleagues! Bogdan Hubsky, we'll wait until you sit down and we'll work on our jobs. I am voting on a second reading of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of certain types of farming in tribal matters in the second reading as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:04:38]] For 222 The factions. Yes, with a motive, please. Since the card didn't work, I did it again. Watch carefully for your cards to work. I put to the vote as a whole the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of certain types of farm activities in tribal matters in livestock. [[second reading]] Please vote. [[11:05:58]] For 225 Again? Dear colleagues! But sit down, I beg you, in your workplaces and vote that you run and shout? I'll put it to a vote, please. In the second reading. [[11:06:36]] For 225 Honorable national deputies, at the request of two factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs and workers in Ukraine, as well as Ukrainian agrarians, I announce a break of up to 11 hours for 40 minutes. I'm asking all the interested people in the adoption of the law on laundering, who have something to do with it, dirty money, to meet in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, can you take your jobs or not? Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. I'm asking you to take your seats with your respectable colleagues. We're continuing our work. The draft is being introduced. What, did I say something wrong? I was giving a break. You can go to the faction leaders and ask what they did if you have so much interest. Please, it's an agrarian faction and the "Industry and Entrepreneurs" faction of "Urrigible Ukraine." There is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Oh, he's already been. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, new edition, second reading. Please, from the committee, who's the reporter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. Based on the fact that the quarantine of plants is very important for the environmental security of the state, the protection of the plant world, it has a significant impact on the intensity of vegetation. In January 2002, the Supreme Council of the Third Council adopted the Law on Quarantine Plants in its first reading. It was introduced by Catherine Vaschuk and Shep Vasil Vasil Vasilovich. The drafters took into account the changes that took place in the legal field with the formation of our sovereign state. This is extremely important because recently, there have been many new farming agents in the agricultural sector. It is extremely important to adopt this law and that law that we have not voted before, before our nation enters into a world trading organization. In considering the law in the first reading, as well as in the work of the deputies, many sound suggestions and observations were made. They were introduced by the Vascuk National Deputies, Kruchk's Georgi Korniyovich, Solomon Yuri Petrovich, and members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. In general, 47 amendments have been made to the law, referring to most articles of the draft law. They're practically all accounted for, and you see it in a comparative table. On September 11, this year, a committee meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a second reading project. The documents given to you show the content of the additions to an article or to a chapter. In our view, the distinguished national MPs, a project that is being submitted to the Supreme Council on second reading, have more clearly defined the content of many articles, the authorization of government authorities in the field of quarantine of plants and their officials. The committee believes that the law is now more sophisticated, has a logical structural structure, a number of new principles, including international quarantine experience. The greatest changes were made to the section "General Positions", which is specific to the idea and content of the whole law. Concepts such as state quarantine control, phytosanitary certificate, quarantine certificate, quarantine, quarantine, quarantine, and so forth have been introduced. As for article 2, "Basic quarantine," it's been rejected. Its contents are set out in the article “The task and system of government quarantine authorities in Ukraine”. In connection with this article, legislation on quarantine plants is given to the second. The numbering of other articles has also been changed. The bill is supplemented by articles 4 and 5, which set out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers and a specially authorized central executive body for agricultural policy in the field of quarantine of plants. The law submitted to the second reading is supplemented by the chapters of the quarantine regime. Sanitary control." As you can see, virtually all the adjustments are taken into account. At the request of the agrarian committee, I ask the people's deputies to support this bill, which is essential today for the development of our agricultural sector. For the normal functioning of our agricultural enterprises. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u78	National MP Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u79	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster I had one amendment, but it doesn't seem to have been taken into account for technical reasons. On page 25 right column, this is article 13 part 4. [[for the stenogram]] In the end, I ask you to complete the text with the text "and their deputies are at the same time substitutes for the state's chief quarantine inspector."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u80	It's purely technical, Yuri Petrovich. We have considered this amendment, it is substantial, and everyone has agreed unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u82	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Let's do some repairs. Yes, the name is counted there. We're gonna stay where we don't count, right? It's all accounted for. What are the positions on the committee? Where is it not counted? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u84	It's practically all accounted for. The only thing is, the numbering has been changed and the numbering has been excluded where it is repeated, and all 47 amendments have been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u85	Yes. Dear colleagues, since everything is practically taken into account and we do not need to vote in an article, yes, there is an offer to accept in a second reading as a whole. With a motive, please. I'm voting on the second draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, number 0980, as a whole. [[new editor]] I'd like all the national MPs to vote. Please vote. [[11:53:48]] For 222 The factions. Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! I'm bringing it up. Out of procedure, please, Gmira. People's deputy gmira, engage with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, you said the correct phrase before the break when you called your colleagues to vote carefully with your cards. But it seemed to me that some colleagues had misunderstood the phrase as a call to vote on someone else's cards. Therefore, I ask you once again to warn all the deputies that the Constitution requires an individual vote and that decisions that will be taken on the basis of a vote by someone else's cards cannot therefore be considered as decisions taken. Just tell your colleagues that the Constitution requires that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u87	I thank you for the principled position. I think all the national MPs have heard the proposal and come to the right conclusions. Thank you. With motive? Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u88	Thank you. Simonenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to make it clear here that we, as always, have been a faction of Communists working competently, studying the content of the laws as they are needed today for the people of Ukraine. But we still insist that today, in the first place, we complete the consideration of the political situation. Our companions are ready today to report on the laws that the committees set out to report to them. But in this case, I warn you that we will not report them, these laws, until a clear position is established throughout the Supreme Council on the issue of the political situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, the esteemed rings, because everyone here is present in the hall, including representatives of the Communist faction, who consider it necessary to act according to the democratic principles of the existence of society, we put it to a vote, if I'm not mistaken, this proposal received 96 votes. Anything else, I think we should decide again in the same way, according to the vote. The vote did not take place, let us respect the will of the majority and work. Otherwise, it is entirely objective to conclude that today the people are a cover for politicians, that no one is interested in the people today. Interesting political game, political opposition. We didn't vote, we didn't. Come on, recruit supporters to keep the session open. In other words, you have no interest in pure politics, no interest in solving economic and social issues, especially since most of the committees headed by your factions are members of the social committees. Honorable fellow workers! What's the motive? Do you not share in the work that might be motivated? Do you not participate in a vote that may be motivated? Go to the microphone. Huh? Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u90	Vladimir Mikhailovich, my last name is Baranowski. You're a countryman, you need to know your countrymen. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Vladimir Mikhailovich, not once have you been led here, the Supreme Council has been in such a difficult situation as it is today. And it is unfortunate that even the laws that are essential will not be voted upon, and the work is lost, which the deputies have been conducting for more than one day. Why don't you get the faction leaders back together and make a deal on these issues so we can get to the session room and work properly? You ask questions, they don't vote, people's work fails, and then you say we're something. And make people laugh. Let's make a deal. And the other side, the factions that have gone through, so to speak, under the patronage of the Zayed, they also understand very well today that we have to make a deal. It would be logical to gather the Conciliation Council of factions and arrange for our next work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u91	I am grateful for the offer of a distinguished national college, a deputy, and a countryman to report that the Conciliation Council was considering this issue on Monday. This decision was voted in the session room and did not receive support. This decision, this proposal was voted on today and did not receive support. Please tell me, what other Conciliation Board is needed for this? In order for the minority to dictate the will of the majority? I think it's not democratic. Let's work and make a deal. I'm here to make a deal. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Repayment of Wage Debt and Other Forms of Payments, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 25.07.2002, at number 0908. Dear colleagues, let's address this issue, it's about overcoming the President's veto. From the committee, please, Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. [[On a simple basis, as chairman, I have the right to do so. I think it's beautiful, Adam Ivanovich, you know. Is there a denial in the hall? None]] Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill 0908 is passed -- on the repayment of arrears from wages and other types of cash payments -- it's passed to us from that session. The authors of the bill: Donchenko, Gurenko and Kuznietsov. The committee at its meeting, you know, we have repeatedly proposed a new edition. And at the last session, a proposal was made: Overcoming the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u93	So we should vote first on the President's proposal, right? If they don't. What does the committee offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u94	The committee's offering to beat the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the President's proposals I'm putting to the vote. I'm voting on the President's proposal. They were talking about the next one. In the article of the first law, after the words "for all types of property" are added with a comma and words, in addition to payments financed from the State Budget of Ukraine. To complement the article is part two: the repayment of the debt mentioned in part one of this article, which is to be made at the expense of the budget, is to be made at the expense of the targeted allocations provided for in the National Budget of Ukraine. I'm putting the President's motion to a vote. Please vote. [[12:03:01]] For 216 For 216. Not supported. The president's second proposal. Article 6 delete. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:03:28]] For the 220. For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. The committee's offering to beat the veto. I'm voting on a proposal by the President's Veto Committee for overcoming Ukraine's Law on Repayment of Remuneration of Wages and Other Forms of Payments. This is document 0908. Please make up your mind. [[12:04:05]] For-19 To-19. The decision is not taken. What, by the factions? Please, by the factions. Dear colleagues, a draft is being submitted to your consideration, and the Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian People's Income Index Act, a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 25.07.2002. This is document number 0912. Is there a need to report from the Cabinet of Ministers? None. The President's proposals are all taken into account. From the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you. This is a bill by his author Mikhailo Stepanov, Joseph of Wynski. He also came to us from that calling. We agreed, you remember, on a number of occasions we spoke about this subject here, all the conflicting moments and questions. There is a proposal to vote on the new edition. We have the principle of agreement of the Ministry of Profiles that this bill will be signed. This bill is needed today because, I remind you, the threshold of the indexation will be set instead of 105. 101 percent. Please support the committee's proposal, vote in favour of the bill in the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, do you understand? Kirilenko, please. Kirilenko, the agrarian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to those of us on the right, the factions of Communists, the factions of socialists. The most important social law under which we all went to elections. Dear colleagues, insert the cards, let's vote with effect. That's millions of our voters. I urge you, let's vote on this law. Colleagues, insert the cards, this is your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u99	Ivan Grigorovich, here we are democratically acting, everyone will be determined. I would ask, as an exception, for a faction of Communists to uphold this law. I'm voting on the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Money Income Index Act in the new edition. Please vote, all the President's proposals are taken into account. Please vote. [[12:06:46]] For 222 In factions, please give. We don't get it. I'm betting on a new bill with the President's proposals on it, please vote. [[12:07:22]] For 223 "For" -223, the decision is not taken, I ask for factions to be given in order for everyone to see who is supporting today's solution to the social problems of Ukrainian society. I am submitting a review of the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on vacations with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 30.07. It's law number 0909. Please, from the Committee of Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Bill No. 0909 agrees with all the comments made. We have repeatedly made proposals, which is why the committee proposes to adopt the bill in a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I'm telling you again. I went to Minister Sahan. He said that if we accepted the committee, he had no need to speak. He doesn't think it's necessary. I beg of you, fellows of honor! Do you need me? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! Given that all the President's proposals are taken into account and the committee fully supports them, we would like to support and vote in favour of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! You understand the position of both the committee and the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Since all suggestions are taken into account, it is proposed that this law be adopted in a new edition. I am voting in a new edition on Ukraine's amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on vacations. This is document number 0909. Please vote. [[12:09:34]] For 223 To 223. The factions. The decision is not taken. For reasons, please the Bulba People's Deputy, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u104	Dear Chairman, you can't see, but I'm actually very happy to see people smiling. Sometimes, though, smiles on your face are inappropriate. Don't you see there's no work for the Supreme Council? There's no work for you. You don't have a consolidating role. Well, be the head of Parliament after all, not the right leg or whatever, and then the job will be. We don't take laws just because you don't do your part, you don't do your job.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that you are neither right nor left, perhaps you are judging from your own experience who you are. And when you tell me when to cry, when to laugh, I'll listen to your thoughts. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, please take up our jobs, we will continue to work. Here's an interesting proposition that we need to raise reserves. Let's raise our reserves. Well, I'm asking you to take your jobs, dear colleagues. Well, the agrarians can move to their places? Ivan Grigorovich! Well, let's work. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. I'm introducing to your consideration the draft law on the appointment of leaders, presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine, and the termination of their powers. We discussed this bill yesterday. Now let's define ourselves with respect to him. This is a project of the national deputy Jovtak. Is there a need to report from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information? None. The committee proposes to adopt this document as a basis. If there's no objection, I'm putting draft law number 1159 -- draft law on the appointment of leaders, presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers. I'll put this bill to the vote on the basis. Please make up your mind. [[12:45:35]] For-7. For -7, the bill was rejected. By factions, please look. That your card didn't work, did it? Vote again, do you insist? Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian law "On Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies" is being submitted to your consideration. Dear colleagues, you know that we had a discussion yesterday, there's an appropriate draft of the committee's ruling, which is proposed to be entrusted with the National Deputies, the authors of the projects to work on and submit for re-reading the first reading. Are there speakers from the committee? None. You have a procedure? Please turn on the microphone, National Deputy Malinovsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u107	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 209 deputies have been registered today. You put a question to the vote when there is no quorum in the room. Hanging the board. That's the first one. And secondly, I would have turned yours to another. Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking for your attention. I'd also like to draw your attention to this. Unfortunately, you're trying to comment on what's going on in the hall instead of trying to consolidate the hall. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you vote on social laws, you comment that Communists and socialists don't want to vote for them. I draw your attention to the fact that we don't vote because we don't. to these laws. The state is collapsing today. So I would like to draw attention to this by trying to consolidate the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u108	Thank you. I'll take your point, that's right. But in no way did I mention Communists or socialists. But I'm counting. As far as registration is concerned. We checked in at the morning session, we'll register at the evening session. You know, there's a quorum in the hall right now. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on these draft bills on the election of national deputies in order of their arrival and registration in order to determine our position. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, number 10-17-2. It's, if I'm not mistaken, the Bill of the People's Deputy Gavrish, isn't it? Dear colleagues, please vote in favour of the 1017/2 project, please vote. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:49:07]] For-144 For -144, the project's been rejected. I'm betting on the second draft, 1017-3. This is a project of the national MPs Joseph and Dashutin. Please vote. [[12:49:41]] For 177 For - 177. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. I'm betting on the draft law, which was passed by the People's Chamber of Assadchev, at number 1017-4. I'll bet you a vote. Please make up your mind. [[12:50:22]] For 1 For -1. There's no need to give in factions? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on bill 1017-7. Please make up your mind. [[12:50:54]] For-0 For -0. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council decree on the drafting of bills for the election of national deputies, which have been tabled by the committee. This is document number 1017/P. Please make up your mind. [[12:51:29]] For-21 For -21. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft decree number 1017-P "On the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work on the concept of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the election of Ukrainian national deputies." The project has been implemented by the People's Deputy Osika. Please vote. [[12:52:04]] For 205 For 205. The decision is not taken. The factions. Thus, the honourable colleagues, all the projects that were proposed for the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, have been rejected. So in the next session, we'll go back to this question. Well, because these are rejected, we have to work on them. If it's done, we'll look at it. Let's vote, let's take a look. I just want to point out once again that all the bills have been rejected at the moment. Dear colleagues, I bring you to your consideration. May I have your attention, please? For consideration of the simplified procedure. We can also make your proposal, but here's the decision of the Supreme Council, you can put it to a vote if you insist. I'm introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine on the Promotion of Aid for Persons Rewarded by the Ukraine Hero. Consideration and acceptance are proposed by a reduced procedure. Ivan Yakovich, you have a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This is about the need for adoption of this bill, which compares the heroes of Ukraine to the other categories of benefits that we now see in legislation. I would like to support this bill, and it will allow for social justice in relation to this category of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u110	Thank you. From the committee. Then I'd like you to sign up for a brief discussion: two in a row, two in a row. Please record. Please point it on the board. Please, Bad Boy, Democratic Initiative Group, please. You up for it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u111	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Gavrish?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u112	Please, Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! It seems to me that the question of identifying Ukrainian heroes as having a special social status and should receive gratitude from the Ukrainian State has matured a long time ago. And that's why the discussion can't take place here, and that's why these people tended to serve Ukrainian statehood the most. They are the ones who characterize the best members of Ukrainian civil society. So the Group of Democratic Initiatives proposes to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Bandurka Alexander Markovich. You up for it? He's giving up the word. Dear Alexander Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u115	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I, my honourable colleagues, urge you to vote in favour of this bill because it is in a series of social bills that make up, including commitments and MPs of majors, regardless of their political orientations after coming here. According to research and participation in the committee’s work, there was no objection to this bill at the committee’s meeting. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u116	Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! The information is that the legislative acts of Ukraine, the decrees of the President of Ukraine, when it comes to the benefits, the Socialist work heroes and the Soviet Union heroes of their time were included in this category of benefits. In 1998, a decree by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, proposed to extend the benefits to Ukrainian heroes. But unfortunately, the corresponding decree of the Cabinet of Ministers does not exist for four years now and if we support the spread of these benefits on Ukrainian heroes today, we will only realize the social justice that has so far been violated in relation to Ukrainian heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u118	There's also the People's Deputy of Ivanov, the People's Rule Group. You're in or out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u119	To avoid repeating myself, I'm taking pictures.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine on the spread of benefits to persons rewarded with "The Hero of Ukraine". This is document number 1069. Please vote it as a basis. Please support me if there is no objection. [[12:58:19]] For the 220. "For" - 220. I ask no comment on the factions. Dear colleagues! I think the committee will work out and prepare new arguments for this bill. Dear colleagues! Come on. If a faction of Communists insists on withdrawing this bill, let's take it down. Out of procedure, please, Pehota People's Deputies. We don't have more than 50 heroes of Ukraine. I think we should back up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u121	People are good! I'm just surprised by the colleagues sitting next to me, that under such a law, on such a problem, they voted against or did not take part. I propose that it be published under this law, that people in the districts know who today respects the heroes of Ukraine, who respect them. And he who comes out of the rostrum and makes a sound like it. To give him a proper grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u122	Is there any objection to this? None. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u123	Simonenko, the Communists. Dear colleagues, many examples can be cited as the hypocrisy of those who are now addressing us is destroying these people. It destroys pensioners, veterans. It's on your behalf and support they've been deprived of all the benefits. You voted in favour of the budget, you destroyed the legislative field of support for veterans! You vote that the hospitals don't have the drugs they need today. You don't give young people the opportunity to get free education. Ladies and gentlemen! I would then like to ask the chairman to make a name for everyone who is unable to determine today that the clans have taken political power in the state and are directing the state, that through privatization they are stretching and stealing the last property in our country. Then let's respect each other, because then we're going to demand that we name each of you what you do in the districts and how you work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u124	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I think in this way, in order to defuse the situation, I demand once again that this bill be put to the vote -- the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine -- bet on the basis of the vote. [[on the extension of the benefits to persons awarded a "Ukrainian Hero" award]] Please support, considering that we have a similar position. Please vote. [[13:01:41]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I am introducing a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Yes, it is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Please, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Rabbit Anatoly Pavlovich. Do you have any comments or suggestions on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This bill has been drafted in clear compliance with the Government's mandate to implement the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. It is proposed to amend 6 laws of Ukraine, including laws on printed media, on television and radio broadcasting, on the Central Election Commission and on general military duty, on military service, on internal service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and on the Criminal Code of Ukraine. This bill was discussed on committees, virtually all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including I participated in this discussion on several committees of Ukraine. He's not making any remarks, he's a completely procedural, technical law in accordance with the requirements that you've provided for in the adoption of the People's Deputies of Ukraine Act. He does not require the cost of adequate material things, so he asks to support the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u126	From the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, are they willing to speak? Please, please. None. Please sign up for discussion. Please point it on the board. There's a member of the People's Party, please, a group of Democratic Initiatives. Is he giving up the word? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft law on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. I'm betting on voting for the adoption of this law as a basis. Please vote. [[13:04:35]] For-30 In - 30, no decision is made. You are being reviewed by the draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on Labour Protection. Reporter - Minister of Labour, Social Policy Ivan Jakovic Sahan.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u127	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to go to the National Deputies literally with the following thesis. This is about the fact that the law on local self-governance does not provide for a number of functions in the implementation of the Labour Protection Act. And the State Administration Act provides for such an article, and unfortunately the law on local self - government does not have such functions as are delegated by the State to cities, villages, and villages. In view of the need to bring him, this law, into the single system of making it possible to enforce the Labour Protection Act, this project is being implemented. We ask him to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u128	Thank you. From the committee, a coreporter, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government Affairs, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, is listed here. Is there a Melniczuk? None. Please sign up for the discussion. Please record. Please point it on the board. Yes, there are no speakers. I'm voting on the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on Labour Protection. This is document number 2092. I'm betting on a vote on accepting it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:06:43]] For 222 For 222, no decision is made. The factions. You are considering draft Law 1041 amending some of Ukraine's legislation in connection with the adoption of the bill, or the Act on High Atmospheric Air. Consideration and decision-making under reduced procedure. Reporter, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Goslovsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ah, the minister will report. Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill provides for the clarification of articles 78.80, 81 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Articles 20, 24, 33, 56 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment and bringing these articles into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Air. This includes additional terms and regulations for limitly permissible emissions of pollutants, stationary sources, physical and biological influences of stationary sources, transport and other means of transport and other means of transport and installations, standards for the content of pollutants in the waste gases. Legalization of all these issues has been carried out, and the bill is in line with all interested executive authorities. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u129	Thank you. From the committee are there speakers? The reporter was Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich, and he's gone. Please sign up for the discussion. And you'll be performing, Ivan Alexanderovich? Because you're physically in the hall, and legally you're not here. Please point it on the board. Dear colleagues, what are the suggestions? Perhaps we will vote on them next, since we have discussed this law? No objections? Let us now consider the draft law amending articles 4 and 5 of the Ukrainian Act "On order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens". This is document number 1363. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The problem with this law is the adoption of Ukrainian children who go to a permanent place of residence abroad. Today, the adoption of children in the process of documenting their permanent residence in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens is a child's travel document. Taking into account the limited duration of the child's travel document, it has been active for 3 years, as defined, some problems arise for those who go abroad with their new parents, and there are possible complications that have already been and may arise in the future, with the absence of a Ukrainian consular institution in the country, the continuation of such a child's travel document. And since we have a permanent passport from the age of 18, there are problems for a number of adopted children that need to be solved. In the event of the adoption of the bill, adopted foreign children will be documented by a Ukrainian citizen's passport to travel abroad regardless of age. You know that this passport is issued for 10 years and can be extended for the same term. This will to some extent contribute to the protection of constitutional rights and the legal relationship with the Fatherland when minors are living outside it and will enable them to make decisions about their citizenship after reaching the age of 18. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u131	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. From the committee, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, do you need anything? Please don't. Turn on the microphone of the Tobacco People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. This law is designed to protect children from the possible disappearance of adoption and departures outside Ukraine. This law is totally unpoliticized. This is about preserving the opportunity for our adopted children to preserve Ukrainian citizenship. And second of all, it's important that they be billed as citizens with a passport. The bill was considered by the Udovenko Committee, the Health Committee, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There are no comments. And we ask for support, because it's about fate, not just the future of Ukraine, but about the smallest citizens of Ukraine who, without this law, well, let's say, there's a legislative loophole that can allow our children to disappear and do things that are unacceptable to them. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u133	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak for and against, please sign up. Please point it on the board. There aren't any. I think the next time we vote, there's no need now, because it won't be adopted, and the law is important. You are being reviewed by the draft Act on Recognition of Certain Decrees of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR in connection with the adoption of the new Criminal Code of Ukraine. Justice Officer Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. You are considering the draft Ukrainian Act on Recognition of Certain Decrees of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. The adoption of the law is due to the fact that, after September 11, 1991, we use normative acts in accordance with the Act on Succession in Ukraine, which were approved prior to their settlement by the new regulations of Ukraine. After the adoption of Ukraine’s new Criminal Code, much of the provisions contained in individual acts are already regulated in the Criminal Code. And according to the Final Provisions of the Criminal Code, the Cabinet of Ministers has developed and introduced this bill for your consideration. The project sets out a list of the legislative acts of the former Ukrainian RSR, which, in whole or in part, are no longer valid in connection with the adoption of the new Criminal Code of Ukraine. In particular, it is suggested that we recognize those who have lost their validity: A decree issued on 9 July 1964 by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on criminal responsibility for the sowing of southern Manjourian and southern Cheyenne hemps, a decree issued on 29 April 1988 by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on criminal responsibility for the cruel treatment of animals, part three of article 1 of the decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of 3 August 1988 on the responsibility for violating the established order of the organization and holding of assemblies, rallyings, street marches and demonstrations, article 2 of the decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of 19 January 1990 on the responsibility for violating the requirements for improving the environmental situation in the Ukraine's RSR, establishing a criminal responsibility for the criminal acts of the criminal justice responsible for the criminal offence or for the criminal offence of the criminal offence. Please support the need to bring Ukraine into line with the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u135	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. From the Committee of Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco. Will you be performing? The head of the committee refuses. It's all clear. Please, if you are willing to speak for and against. Please sign up when you want to. On the board, please. There are no speakers. Let's figure out the next time we vote on this law. You are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code. Reporter-in-charge of the head of the Ukrainian State Department on the execution of the sentences of Stashinsky Alexander Borisovich. Please, Alexander Borisovich. From the committee, please report. Mr. Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich, member of the Committee on Law Enforcement. I think that a lot of the representatives are from the Cabinet of Ministers that provide activity without doing anything. Then we won't let you into this room. Please, Ivanov Sergey Anatolyovich. You're out, aren't you? We'll hang up. You are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Safety of Persons involved in Criminal Justice in relation to the imposition of individual obligations on the enforcement authorities. Who will report from the Cabinet of Ministers? From the committee? None. Let's put it down. I say next time. I'm telling you again, we're not gonna run you into this room. You have more representatives than you have in the Cabinet of Ministers! You are considering a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the change in the name of the Ukrainian Ministry of Economics. Communicator Princip Vladimir Leonidovich. Let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The law is being brought to your attention. draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The drafting of Ukraine's law is due to the adoption of the Presidential Decree of 21 August 2001 entitled "Renamement of the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine", according to which the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been renamed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and European Integration and the successor to its rights and duties. The project is aimed at bringing individual legislation into line with the President's decree. The decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration also determines the need to bring the normative acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into line with the President's decree. Taking into account what has been said, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration is proposing to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u137	Thank you. Is there a need for the committee to speak? Is There a Need to Discuss? If desired, please record. Show them whether they are desirable or not. Light up on the board. None. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities is being submitted to your consideration. National MP Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about the importance of this law, I just want to remind you that among the letters that are being sent to us, the electorate is in favor of letters that contain personal requests that do not require a legislative settlement. But to bring the proposed addition to Ukraine's Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities Act to your consideration today has forced me to appeal to persons with disabilities about social justice, which must be protected by the State regarding families of persons with disabilities. Today, when higher education is practically commercially available, it is virtually impossible for children whose parents, both parents, are disabled. Therefore, I have proposed a bill to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, proposing to give priority to higher education institutions for children with both parents with disabilities. Dear colleagues, I would like to address my colleagues from the factions of Communists, socialists, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, Our Ukraine and I also address my colleagues. I ask you, given the importance of this bill for the most vulnerable sectors of the population. Please don't comment, I'll give you a seat and you'll talk as much as you want. I ask you, as an exception, to support this bill, given that it is the last one today. I think you've got a lot of people in the county. Who is said to be disabled, for whom this law will be very useful. Let's throw away all our love or dislike for each other, I respect you for your views, even though I don't share them. If you ask too much, I'll at least think about it. Let's not trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u140	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u141	From the committee, please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to make sure that we are still the law for which I would like to thank Deputy Dobkin, if today there is an attempt not to vote for the reasons why the factions don't vote today do not put him to the vote, because this bill solves the very serious social problem of families with two disabilities, and these are extreme families. So I really don't want this bill to be, let's say, unvoted in this session. If these factions don't vote, let's carry the vote anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, is there no objection to the proposal of the National Deputy Suskević? So let's postpone the vote. You will be given a draft decree on the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Consideration and acceptance. Please, Pejhot's national deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u144	What do I ask by addressing the deputies as a representative of the European choice? We have to make budget proposals by October 1st. Today, for political reasons, we may have made no decision. This means that by October 1st, we can't budget and protect the disabled, deal with the heroes, no matter what I'm accused of. So I don't want to give this a political evaluation anymore. I don't want to insist on publishing in the paper or showing it, but at the same time, I want to ask a practical question: how can we form a budget without knowing what we're going to spend, and how exactly are we going to predict these costs? And I would think, I understand that Suskevitch is afraid that they won't vote on this law. Let's test ourselves again and vote for the disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the Pejhota National Deputy, I put to the vote a draft law on the amendment of article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this document as a basis. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:26:03]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Who had the motive? Please, National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to go to my colleagues and ask them to keep a close eye on what documents are being voted on. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this law has nothing to do with the adoption of the budget and the budget. And that's why Valery Mikhailovich Sushkevitch asked not to put him to the vote. You know, I'm so impressed that today people did bear service, which means they burned the law they had to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u147	Thank you. Infantry National MP, please turn on the microphone. Is he going to put it on again? Please, the Infantry of Motives. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u148	I thank Cibenko very much for giving an evaluation of the budget committee. All the laws that we adopt, we have to calculate if we want to help this category by this law. If he is simply political, I agree with Cibenko that he should not be accepted at all. We're thinking of helping this category put this article into the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I demand you to vote once again on Bill 1160 amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. To the vote to accept it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:28:23]] For 219 What? I'm asking you to sit down so you can see it. Have a seat, please. Because. Dear colleagues, the national MPs claim that one row simply failed to fully operate the card. I'm asking you very carefully. Okay, okay, you heard the offer. I am voting on draft Law 1160 amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to adopt it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:29:23]] For 223 For - 223. The factions. With a motive, please. Last name? People's Deputy Frost, Communist faction. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u150	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm looking at this situation, and just, well, on the one hand, it's funny, and on the other hand, I might know. You can't go on like this. Well, what are you making fun of the Supreme Council? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we do, we accept the position of that ostrich. You tell all the Ukrainian citizens that we are deliberately banging on the Supreme Council, on the legislative branch of power that we are leading, we do not know where. Let's ask a question about the political situation in Ukraine, let's look at it -- and let's move on. You can't go on like this! How much can be abused by the Supreme Council?Oh, my God! And as Head of the Supreme Council, you should probably defend the honor and dignity of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u151	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the National MP, I inform the public of Ukraine that the minority wants to dictate the conditions of the majority. Since minorities do not comply, they do not want to work, thus blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Are you comfortable with that kind of information? I told her! I'm introducing to your consideration a draft decree on the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and decision-making under reduced procedure. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Please. I'll tell you about the line. The national MP of the GM has a word for it. Please. I am acting according to the Rules and according to your requirements. You asked me to say, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u152	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll find new things for myself. You're saying there's a minority. Consequently, there is a majority in the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, I'd like to know what document this majority has approved. Second. In Russian, Ukrainian, and all other languages, the majority are referred to as more. If there is a majority and all laws do not pass, the majority therefore sabotages the adoption of these laws. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please explain your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u153	It's working. Dear colleagues, please don't whistle, there won't be any money. I want to tell you this way, where the majority and the minority came from. Dear colleagues, on your proposal to include the day-to-day question of the political situation was a vote on Tuesday, which did not get the consent of the session room, there was a vote today, voted just 96 people, that's a lot, but not enough to be heard. Most national deputies did not support the proposal. So I'm going to conclude that in this case, your proposal is not supported, you're left with a minority. Accordingly, if we claim that we are acting in accordance with the Rules and Procedures, you need to recruit, advocate for people to support and block the work of the Supreme Council. You need to ask that question. When there is a majority, please listen to it. Other laws must be adopted, not blocking the activities of the Supreme Council. In this case, you are acting as a destructive force in terms of Ukrainian society. I put to the vote, once again, to vote in line with the proposal of National Deputy Suskević to amend article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine to vote for acceptance as a basis. Please vote. [[13:34:09]] For 222 Dear colleagues! If I called the name of the national MP or called the faction, you'd want a word for it. Please, National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a look at the law that the national MP, Dobkin, has passed, for which I would like to thank him. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I still believe that despite our political passions, most political factions support the solution of disability problems. And I'm sure everyone will agree with me that this bill and the vote will be passed on to the next day. I'm asking a lot of questions, and I think everyone will agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u155	Okay. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues! A draft Decree on the articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees for consideration and adoption is being introduced. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But first of all, I want to say that, and to bring to your attention, as the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, that according to the orders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine Gladys, Grachevs, Heads of State, Vaschuk, Zarubinski, Zhivago, who registered at the registration desks only 11 hours ago 35 minutes after they had gone almost half an hour to vote on the issues that are being put into the agenda today. Pisarenko, Rybak, Sigal, Samowowatenko, Rahanski, Chikal, Shipko are on foreign missions. I have copies of your orders, they're added. According to the information provided to us in the Supreme Council's Apparatus Department providing plenary meetings, the national deputies of Ukraine Kruglov, Plutinski, Davidov are on treatment at the Feofania Central Clinic. Help is also added. The registration and voting checks today, or September 26, indicate that the registration cards of the above - called national deputies were involved in both the registration and the voting. In particular, the National Deputies Cards of Gladys, Vaschuk, Zarubinsky, Jehovago, Pisarenko, Ribaka, Sigala, Samowowiski, Desert Tent, Rahanski, Chikala, Kruglov, Plutinski, Davidov took part in the vote today on matters of the agenda, particularly in matters of registration numbers 2121, 2235, and others. Therefore, according to article 84, part 3, of the Constitution, voting in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be carried out by the Ukrainian people’s deputies personally. But this was not done. There's an open violation of the Constitution. On the basis of the foregoing, the Rules Committee considers that the voting that took place at the morning session, that is, today on September 26, is invalid. [[Most of the signatures of the National Committee members are]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to this day you, as Head of the Supreme Council, have once again presided over the meetings, and not once, but for most of your time, have followed the regulations of the Rules clearly. Today I don't know what's going on. You're not just rude, you're cynically violating the Rules. So on behalf of the committee, I can't report on the subject matter of the Supreme Council Committees today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the head of the committee for the principle of position, and I would like it to always be that way. I just don't understand one thing, Your Honor, Valentin Grigorovich, what are you accusing me of? I don't walk in the ranks or check. And if you had that information, you should have come to me and told me. I believe that if you are objective, you should be objective and act, not accusing it of being a shot. That reminds me, Valentin Grigorovitch, if you're so open-minded, it's like a shot from behind your back. All of it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I bet. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, reply, please. People's MP Matthews, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I have been told that I cynically violate all standards. I tried to follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I must remind you that at the beginning of this morning's meeting, as head of the Rules Committee, I have drawn your attention to the violation of the Rules when the vote was taken several times without justification for any or all other draft regulations and laws. That's the first time. Secondly, in order to deal objectively and deeply with the situation in the plenary hall today, we needed time. And I now, a message from the committee that I gave, I could say, from a clean letter that was only written and signed by members of the committee, that I announced. We're going to print in 15 minutes because we respect the Head of the Supreme Council, and we're going to hand over all the documents I've talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u159	Thank you. I think that's the right approach. Samofalov's national MP with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I propose that the bill, which has now been announced, be withdrawn from the vote. Why? Because it has been prepared by the Committee on Rules and Ethics by a kilowatt without consultation with the Committees, in particular with the Committee on European Integration. He needs to be refined, and then he needs to be examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Safety of Persons involved in Criminal Justice in relation to the individual obligation to the executive branch. Reporter: First Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. On December 23, 1993, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on the Safety of Persons involved in Criminal Justice. Article 3 of this Law provides that security measures are to be carried out by law enforcement agencies or internal affairs, which are designed to create special units. At the time of the adoption of the Law, Ukraine’s Ministry of Justice included the General Administration for the Execution of Penalties, which carried out security measures for persons involved in criminal proceedings, such as those in places of deprivation of liberty or in places of special detention. After it was removed from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the creation of the State Department on the execution of sentences, there was a gap in legislation to ensure the safety of those involved in criminal proceedings who are in places of deprivation of liberty or in places of special detention. In this connection, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has drafted a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Safety of Persons involved in Criminal Justice. This bill is called upon to clearly distinguish between the IMF, the Security Service and the State Department on the execution of penalties for ensuring the safety of persons in places of deprivation of liberty or in places of special detention. As a whole, the draft law defines the main task of implementing penalties for direct activities in the area of security for persons in places of deprivation of liberty. The adoption of the law provides an opportunity to protect the lives and health of these individuals from unlawful assaults and to create the necessary conditions for the proper administration of justice. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u163	Thank you. From the committee are there speakers? None. For discussion, please sign up if you need to. Please record. Let me explain. Andresuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u164	Our faction supports this bill, and we turn to all factions, especially the left-wing faction, to support this most important bill for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u165	Thank you. Yes, there are no more. I'm betting on a vote for adoption on the basis of the draft law on amendment. Out of procedure, please, the national MP of Baranowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u166	Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Volodymyr Mikhailovich, according to the Rules, Article 3.8. 1, which says that at a meeting of the Supreme Council, a speaker should not use abusive speech and obscene swearing, or call for illegal and violent action and so on. You said today that destructive forces have factions that do not vote today. It is the right of every MP to vote in favour, against or not to vote at all. So I'm counting, you should apologize to those deputies you called "destructive forces," and you meant those factions that don't vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I apologize to those who think I called them destructive forces. I think you're all and all this room are constructive forces. Are you happy? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On ensuring the safety of persons who take part in criminal justice in relation to the imposition of individual obligations on the enforcement authorities" to accept it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:46:57]] For 225 The factions, please. My fellow Members, you are being reviewed by a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Labour Code. Reporter to the head of the State Department of Ukraine on the execution of the sentences of Ptashinski Alexander Borisovich. Please. Please. National MP Hubsky, please turn on the microphone. By Procedure or by Motivation? What do you got?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u168	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The thing is, we don't always have the same card. It's working, it's not working. In this case everyone voted, the card voted, we got 16 votes again, and 225. I propose a vote. Because with the tech guy, everyone pressed, everyone held on, and the card didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I ask you, while we consider this matter, invite a technical worker, find out the situation, and then we will be determined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u170	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Department of State on the execution of sentences for the participation of interested ministries in the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. The main task of this bill is to harmonize the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on the general structure and number of the criminal execution system of Ukraine and on the general military duty and military service, as well as the statute of the garrison and guard service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, approved by the Act on the Status of the Garrison and Guard Service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. and with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code. Following the adoption of the new Criminal Code, new types of punishments have been introduced: public works, arrests, restrictions of will, reformed existing corrections, and conditional sentencing and suspended sentences have been reformed into an institution for release from trial. In describing the bill, I would like to stop at the following. The amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code provide for the release of a judge from the sentence of a convicted person to public service if he is sick of a mental and other serious illness. Amendments to the Labour Code are based on reform of the institutions of conditional sentencing and the delay in the execution of sentence and punishment in the institution of release for punishment with trial. Moreover, since correctional work under the new Criminal Code of Ukraine and the new regulations of the Ukrainian Labour Code are only performed at the place of work of the convicted person, it is proposed that the grounds for termination of the contract of employment be abolished, such as the sentence of the worker to work in correctional work outside the workplace. The amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of criminal execution systems aim to bring the criminal enforcement system into line with the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Penal Code of 11 July 2001. Yes, according to article 3 of the project, arrest homes and criminal inspection are included in the execution system, and the number of which is proposed to increase to 5 percent of the number of persons in charge of the inspection. This increase in the standards of the criminal enforcement system is due to the fact that the sanctions of two thirds of the new Criminal Code provide for the application of a non-willing penalty. In this regard, it is proposed and predicted that the number of convicted prisoners will increase by 80 to 100,000 and increase from a total of 230 to 250 thousand persons. In addition, with the introduction of new forms of punishment, criminal inspection duties have expanded considerably, which in turn cannot be avoided, without the need for additional human resources. If this rule is compared to the number of relevant foreign services, it should be noted that in developed European states it is 3-4 times higher than in the proposed bill and is 15-20 percent higher than in the number of convicts who are in charge of this service. With regard to amendments to the Ukrainian Act on General Military Duty and Military Service and Appendix 6 to the Statute of the Garrison and Guard Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the Garrison and Guard Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, it should be noted that they relate to the imposition of such punishment as the arrest and features of its conduct by military personnel. The purpose of the selected changes is reflected in the explanatory note, which is laid down in a comparative table to the draft law. The adoption of the bill will allow for the explicit and correct application of legislation on the enforcement of penalties that will ensure respect for human and civil rights and freedoms. It should be noted that the bill does not require additional costs. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sees the purpose of the draft law as appropriate. The bill was previously drafted by the Committee on Legislative Security and the Committee on National Security and Defence, which recommended that it be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the honourable national deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, are the committee willing to speak? None. For discussion, are you willing to discuss it? Please sign up if there is. Let me explain. It's expensive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u172	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I, the only one, wanted to draw the attention of our comrades to the fact that the question of the Department of Executive Services is always out of the ordinary. And that's why I'm addressing all the colleagues who are present and voting, so that we can solve this very important issue, because the execution of the sentences is an integral part of the legal system. And no matter how we treat those who are serving the penalty, they are people who need our attention. So I would ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u173	Thank you. Are there no more? Not written down. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code. Please vote. [[13:55:03]] For 226 Decision taken. By factions, please explain. You are considering a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Refugee Act. It's a Kabmin project. Report from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Head of the State Committee on Nationality and Migration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In connection with the adoption of the Refugee Act and with the aim of eliminating the colossal acts that might have arisen in the current legislation, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduces a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on refugees, such as the Law on the Legal Status of Aliens, on State Assistance to Families with Children, on Childhood Protection, on the fight against TB, on the Code on Administrative Offences, and on the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 26 December 1992 1392 on Income Tax from Citizens. It must be said that the essence of these changes and additions is that foreigners and stateless persons who crossed the border of Ukraine illegally but with a view to gaining refugee status. According to these changes, they may be entitled to such status. In addition, there are a number of technical changes proposed in the above - mentioned bills regarding the clarification of certain regulations. In particular, the concept of "the status of the refugee and its granting" is dealt with in the current legislation. In particular, changes to Ukraine’s law on the legal status of foreigners in Ukraine are involved. With regard to Ukraine’s Childhood Protection Act, the first step is to protect children. The changes are aimed at protecting children who have come to Ukraine in the face of situations that may occur in their countries of residence. In particular, I would like to emphasize that a refugee in Ukraine will be under the full protection of the Ukrainian State. And it will actually enjoy all rights on an equal footing with Ukrainian citizens. In addition, the Law on the Fight against TB also adds to the adoption of the refugee law, including the examinations and necessary procedures of those who are granted refugee status. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u175	Thank you. Is there a need for the committee to speak? None. Discussion. Are they desirable? Please sign up if you want. Please point it on the board. National deputy Shevchuk. National deputy Shevchuk, please. Oh, Zarubinski. Shevchuk, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, dear reporter. I realize it's the end of the day, but there are some questions that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u177	No, it's not the end of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u178	My question relates to the admission of individuals who suffer from certain diseases to tuberculosis. It's very humane for them to be tested at the expense of government budgets, while other states are coming a little differently. They limit the entry into their country of persons with socially dangerous diseases, including tuberculosis. As far as you are concerned, today’s tuberculosis epidemic is concerned, adding such supplements to the existing law on good health.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u179	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u180	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, precisely for the purpose of not admitting to the territory of Ukraine persons who have such socially dangerous diseases and who are proposing these changes. Because, in fact, if a person crossed the border illegally, there is no medical evidence, of course, that is not to be required in advance, since we do not know who wants to cross the border illegally. But when this person is detected and in Ukraine, we need to do everything we can to ensure that these people, if they are carrying a socially dangerous disease, are socially dangerous, do everything we can to ensure that these diseases do not spread and that the individuals do not become distributors of these diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for. All those desiring to speak have already spoken, one has been willing. Please prepare for the vote. May I have your attention, please? I am betting on a vote to be adopted on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Refugee Act. Please vote. [[2:01:02]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to the offer. I'm asking you to stay put! In line with the committee’s proposal, he proposes, by voting on a basis, to accept it as a law as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am betting on a vote on the adoption as a whole as a bill of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Refugee Act. Please vote. [[14:01:42]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the project is under consideration. The factions. You are considering a draft decree on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to implement the strategy of overcoming poverty in Ukraine. Reporter. We'll continue for 15 minutes. It's no big deal. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Grigorovich Hara. Please, Vasil Grigorovich. Is there a Vasil Grigorovitch? None. Dear colleagues, I bet. No, so there is no need to discuss it. I am voting on a draft decree on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the strategy of overcoming poverty in Ukraine as a basis. Please vote. [[14:02:54]] For 228 Decision taken. No suggestions, no comments? I would like to vote on the whole draft Supreme Council decision on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine to implement the strategy for overcoming poverty in Ukraine. Please vote. Vote please! Ivan Grigorovich, please vote! [[14:03:30]] For 228 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. Ah, dear colleagues, we've continued our meetings, yes. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I put the vote to the vote, and I announced that for 15 minutes. I'm betting on a draft Ukrainian law, I ask you to take your seat. I'm voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on scientific cooperation. The committee's offering. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[14:04:45]] For 224 What? What, the card didn't work or what? I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please prepare to vote on your request. I'm voting on the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on scientific cooperation. Please vote. [[14:05:30.]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am introducing to your consideration and adoption a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade. The committee supports. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[14:06:13]] For 224 What, the cards don't work? Well, then I beg you carefully. Then watch how you vote, so that they don't say that the cards don't work, the honourable colleagues. I am voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade. Please vote. [[14:07:02]] For 228 Dear colleagues, me. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that during the intermission the services see why the cards don't work. What's the procedure? National Deputy Rodionov, please proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u182	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich and the comrades here! Deputies! There's not more than a hundred people in the room! What's highlighted is direct falsification! You can count how many people are not here. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop it, you guys! You're not scaring me! That is why it makes sense! Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u184	There are currently no more than 100-120 persons present in the hall. You have 228 votes all the time. This is a falsification of the results of the vote! Let the people of Ukraine know how the majority vote, which is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-09-26-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
