ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please turn the system on. People's deputies please register. [[16:14:33]] Registered -392 There are 392 national deputies registered in the hall, and I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you of the meetings of the Conciliation Council. Various options, various suggestions, were discussed. I would like to point out that the actions proposed by the Presidency on how to deal with this issue are recognized as fully in line with the Rules. Yet, in fact, the issue has been translated into a political plane. As a result, the Conciliation Council made this decision: Since no vote in different options has obtained the necessary number of votes, the question is now removed from the agenda as if there was no support needed. Instruct the committee to consider the bills and issues submitted by the factions from the National Deputies to bring the matter to the Conciliation Council and to vote on Tuesday at the next plenary week, making the appropriate decision on Tuesday's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that you have the agenda and the schedule of the session that we are working in the districts next week, which is next week on Tuesday, this is going to be July 2, 2002. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Draft decree on Government Day in July 2002. Ladies and gentlemen, four draft decrees have been submitted. We need to discuss them in order to arrive. However, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster made the following suggestion to the Supreme Council: "Reviewing the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukrainian Government Day in July 2002 at number 1186, I believe that for the purpose of studying the problems outlined in this decision and the generalization of proposals by the Ukrainian people's deputies, it is appropriate to postpone consideration of this issue until September 2002. In addition, I ask that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also be given a mandate on the budget for the generalization of proposals and materials." Signed by the chairman of the Rizak Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this is also why I have been instructed by the committees to prepare their materials for the consideration of the issue: the Committee on Budgetary Policy, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and the Committee on Agrarian Policy. If you have no objection, then we must vote on the matter in order to remove it. There is no need for him to vote. We have 1186-1, 1186-2, 1186-3. I would like to remind you, in this regard, that according to the terms of the government’s day, we can consider no more than two issues. Now we need to discuss these three proposals and determine each issue. Here we go to the draft Government Day Order in July 2002, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko, Samuelk and Hara. Who will speak from you? Please, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for the proposals made by the people's deputies to the day of the Government, they are indeed very important. But in our view, those people's deputies and all the faction that supported our proposal today must be our children with you. The recovery of children is getting worse every year in Ukraine, the number of child health camps, the number of children being cured, the quality of children being cured and so on. We do propose that we pay attention to this. As of 20 June, in Ukraine, just over a quarter of the camps had begun working and rehabilitating their children. Unless we make adjustments and the fact that we are preparing for review will lead the Cabinet of Ministers and the Administration in the areas of improving this work. And we'd like to consider if we could make some adjustments. We understand with you that if we leave with you millions of our children on the streets, they will fill up the number of street kids we have in the backs today. That's a first. Second. We also understand that, for the vast majority of children, being in a residential in a deciduous recovery camp is an opportunity simply humanely, let us say, to feed ourselves, to try something that he does not eat in the course of the year at home. You and I know that we have almost 95 children with clear signs of disease. Today we can change the situation for the better. So I would very much like to support this proposal. This is about our children and grandchildren with you and considering the course of recovery on 9 June and taking other concrete measures to improve the situation that is so far. I'll tell you the truth, and as the president of the Donetsk district council of trade unions for many years, we've come to an end today. If we don't take appropriate measures, the whole system will collapse and the kids will walk the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Any questions to the reporter? There is a proposal to vote. Please, National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! I have a question. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. I want to understand what we're doing now? I understand that we are now putting questions into the agenda. I don't understand, for example, why we fought to put the agenda on the agenda for the day-to-day follow-up session if we put it in the agenda. We turned it on at the beginning of work. Take a look at the temporary arrangement that included the issue of the day’s schedule for the next period of work. It's already on. We didn't have to do anything in the south today. Now you're trying to re-examine the issue of Government Day. Is that where we put it in the agenda or are we essentially looking at it? Let's figure this out. It seems to me that the Bureau was finally confused. It's here for inclusion in the agenda. It's made by one hammuse. Once included, and then the matter is essentially dealt with. If, in fact, we should start with the first question. Time-out. Then decide on the members of the European Union and so on. The question of the order of the day of the fourth convening of the first session should not be included at all. But it's already on. Look at the first order of the day and you will see that this question is already involved. We don't need to, let's vote, we didn't have to lose south. I'd like the Bureau to figure out what we're doing right now. Because we're all confused and the Bureau itself is confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u5	Dear National Deputy Assadchev, I'll give you an explanation. That the agenda for this Sunday of the plenary session has been formed and it has been voted. Now we're talking about essentially. Before that, we discussed the order of the day of the first session of the fourth call. Hence, the Presidency was not confused on this matter. It is suggested that three questions be considered in the agenda on Government Day. We need to make up our minds. Because according to the situation, we can consider as many as possible two questions. There are three draft decrees. We discussed the first one. We can agree in this way to discuss three draft decrees and then vote them in turn. Is there no objection? Then let's move on to the second. This is the draft of Decree 1186-2 on Government Day in July 2002, the proposals made by the people's deputies Tkachenko, Parubko and Lechchenko. Who will present the question from you. People's Deputies, huh? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u6	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Deputies and Guests. We decided on the government's Day to hear in July, July 9, about the state of affairs in agriculture. We're a month behind schedule, but it's not our fault, it's the fault of all of us sitting here in a hall where we've been doing nothing for two months, we didn't think we needed to get bread. Bread is already essentially in the South. You know, in 10 days, and at most 8 days, the harvest will start in peace. The state of affairs in agriculture, when I was in the district, I went around a lot of ex-clugs, now some unknown cooperatives, everybody's screaming, there's practically no oil and lubricants. You know, two weeks ago, the oil and lubricants traveled almost twice. I can't understand how our government can be allowed when the springtime of the field work comes, we definitely double the price when the harvest comes, it's the main period where we need to gather bread. The president issued a concept or strategy with poverty. I'm afraid we're going to accept the concept of hunger. And here I support the first decision where children need to be healed. And in order to heal children, they need to be properly fed, fed, and the diet needs to be balanced. Today, you know what the climate, weather, and rainfall have been, and as of today, the heat has begun. And our ideas, and the predictions Minfin's making. They might pop if we don't get ready for the harvest. The vans are practically 40 percent secure, and they're not repaired. There's not enough spare parts in the field, because there's no spare parts in the farms, there's no money to buy. I think the government should seriously prepare for July 9th and report to us the situation in the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u7	Thank you. The question is to the National MP? Everyone understands the importance of the problem, yes, I think, dear colleagues? Then the third draft of decree 1186-3, which is submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Moroz, Rudzikowski, Seminouk, on the Government's Day of Information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the economic relevance of creating a consortium for the administration of Ukraine's gas transport system. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u8	Dear National Deputies! This draft resolution is proposed by us, taking into account the fact that on June 9th, the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia jointly decided to create a consortium, a joint venture for the administration and development of the gas transport system. To this consortium, invited European companies, such as Germany, are given priority. I want to draw your attention to the priority of including this issue on July 9. Why? Because the gas transport system is unique in Ukraine, its value under European parameters is about $18-20 billion. This is the largest and most valuable company in Ukraine that now gives Ukraine 30 billion cubic metres of gas for transporting Russian gas to Europe, and this gas goes to Ukraine's utilities, to power stations, to manufacture chemical fertilizers. This covers about 7 billion dollars of Ukraine's trade and payment balance. And the question of creating a consortium is very important, noting also the fact that the agreement on creating a consortium, after signing, should be approved by the Supreme Council. It would be appropriate to invite the Government right now, taking into account the fact that a commission was set up with the Prime Minister to justify the establishment of a consortium, as instructed by the President. And invite the government to present its economic justifications for creating a consortium. And to take into account the wishes of the people's deputies, so that, not after the signing of the consortium agreement, we could not then make any proposals or changes. If the government comes, reports, takes into account the faction’s wishes, perhaps the decision of the Supreme Council will be positive. And in order not to undermine the image of Ukraine in the eyes of the European states, Russia, other neighbours that the Government has stated, signed, and the Supreme Council has not supported the creation of such a consortium, it would be appropriate to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue, to express a wish, and, if the Government considers, of course, such a structure will also be supported by the Supreme Council. I ask you to consider this fact and to support this very decision on the issue of creating a consortium under 1186-3 for consideration on 9 July. Thank you. If there's a question and I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question? Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u10	I have a question. Please tell me that we have clearly defined parliamentary functions, clearly defined government functions. Everyone has to do their own thing. It is now the case that a consortium has been established. He's not like that. Today, the issue is under consideration. And I'm listening to you, and I have the impression that the MPs would like to stand by the drive that has 32 billion cubic metres of gas going around. I understand that there are 32 billion people around whom many would like to stand, and many have shared it over the past few years, but what is the point of going there today in order to, so to speak, prevent the Government from working, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u11	So thank you for asking. I'll explain. In our view, the need for discussion in the Supreme Council is that this issue will be brought to the ratification by the Supreme Council. And if the government signs the treaty, not taking into account the wishes of the people's deputies, the recommendation, then not to look like Ukraine, let's say, and the President you'll support is inconvenient in the form that he signed and the ratification issue cannot be resolved, and no one wants to stand by the drive. This question relates in any way to the competence of the Supreme Council, because there is a law on state ownership of high-pressure pipes that transport gas to Europe and create a consortium will still be affected by the change in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u12	Samolik's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u13	Please tell the honourable co-reporter that you think it's really a matter of curing children -- children of dead miners, children of the Chernobyl family, children of half orphans, orphans, from low-income families, patients -- is it less important than the question that you raise? Is the question of bread, the great politics of our nation, even less important today than what you put? Finally, I would like to ask the Ukrainian National Deputies: We are obliged with you today, as children are being healed, where they are in the backyards, whether they are resting, and if they are not gathered today, the harvest will be gathered. Are we going to buy bread abroad again today? I'm asking you very much, say, are you really, really, stressing that your question is really important, you think these urgent questions are secondary?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. I really agree with you that the issue of child recovery is very important, and in order of priority, it needs to be included in the agenda. And the Socialists will vote in favour. Thank you. Understand. But if there's a consortium that doesn't take into account wishes, then the revenue that gets the budget, and the government company Naftogaz Ukraine will be taken from the budget and from Ukraine, and that money is needed for the recovery of children and so on, about what you're talking about. [[2 billion dollars]] [[4 billion dollars in profit]] We should not let that matter go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u15	National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u16	As I understand it, these two questions are not alternatives. You can look at them both. I think we have a reason to vote for him under this condition. And I agree with you that if you don't get the budget from the gas transport system, there will be nothing to cure the children. And perhaps this is a question to consider, and the question of healing children by themselves, and our faction will vote in favour. Now I asked Matvienkov what was there to stand by the engines. You have to stand there so that there won't be others and you won't be able to get the gas back to where it's supposed to be. And finally, did I correctly understand that the consideration of this issue in Parliament is aimed at facilitating the prospects for the ratification of this agreement? If we look at it in advance, if we express our wish, the government will also take into account the cooperation of the Supreme Council and the government then give Parliament a basis for ratifying this agreement. Yeah, do I get it?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u17	That's the question. If the government now develops the conditions for the establishment of a consortium and takes into account the wishes of the deputies, the factions that will then vote under these conditions, then of course the Supreme Council will support it. But the language goes, if the government signs something right now, then they come here, and the MPs will have a denial that, let's say, the consortium will give it all to the Germans, it's not clear why it's necessary to vote for such a consortium. And to your second question about standing by the engines. Today it's a state company, and there are people who work at a state company. If Mr. Matvienkov thinks it's necessary for the Germans to stand there, they'll screw, we'll have a big hole in the budget. And the other question is, what wouldn't be the question at all, I'm sure, both German consumers and Russia, if a gas professional was at the head of Naknaftegaz Ukraine. And we have, starting with Bakaya, Bakay the forester is standing, and the tax collector is now leading the metallurgy. We have thousands of gas experts every year. If professionals were to lead, there would be no question of consortia. And it starts now and in atomic energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, MP. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we proceed to the vote, but I would like to take into account that on the day of the government on July 9, we can hear no more than two questions. Other questions can be moved to September. And so, in order of arrival. Is there a need for us to lay a foundation? In general, we'll put it right away. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine’s Government Day in July 2002 is put to the vote at number 1186-1. It is suggested that we consider hearing about the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2002. I'd like you to support the National People's Deputies. Please vote. [[16:41:01]] For 214 In factions, please give. Dear National Deputies! This is the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Ukraine's Government Day in July 2002, project number 1186-1. It is about spending Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 9, with such a daily routine as preparing for the 2002 harvest. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[16:41:56]] For 208 In factions, please give. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to vote. What is more, we are discussing very important matters. Project 1186-3 is on the vote. This is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukrainian Government Day in July 2002. It is proposed to hold Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 July 2002 with the agenda: information from the Ukrainian Cabinet on the economic relevance of creating a consortium for managing Ukraine's gas transport system. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[16:42:54]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I'll have the factions, please. For reasons of vote, please register. Please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Samolik's national MP, please. Let's take a look at the board. Samolik's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u19	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I very much ask that we now vote on two issues for the government's Day. The first question is the process of curing children. And the second thing about the harvest. Please. These are urgent questions today. Volodymyr Fedorovich, I don't understand how we're going to meet the electorate in a day and when many parents are coming and asking for a visit to health. What kind of eyes do we have to look at these mothers? I ask you these two questions on Government Day and I think we'll get the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal for a vote. In addition, these two draft decrees received a corresponding 214 and 208 votes. I put to the vote draft order number 1186-1 and draft order number 1186-2 to the vote. People's deputies, please. Please be supportive. [[16:45:16]] For 217 The factions. For the reasons of the vote, Igor Rafailovich, please. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u21	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, it is clear that the problem of children is important, it is clear that the harvest congregation is important, but these issues were to be considered two months ago. It is now necessary to assign or request the Head of the Supreme Council in view of Parliament’s interest in these matters, to find out specifically in the working order and to report to us, or we will do nothing. And as for the third question about the creation of a consortium, I think it's just that the Supreme Council can hear information about this to know what it is and nothing else. Whether it's good or bad, we need to know what that consortium is. That's it, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u22	Grigorovich, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u23	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Your Honorable colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that the first month of vacations is over and the children's recovery is on its way and going as planned. And obviously, it would be very nice to hear in September about the shortcomings of this healing, because today your colleagues probably don't own it, and you won't find any free travel anywhere else. I'm sorry my colleagues don't know that. I'm looking for, for example, for kids in the neighborhood, with a lot of difficulty compared to last year, I can find the travels, and Crookprofessort can confirm that. The second question. She's on her way to Crimea, she's already in mourning, she's from the southern districts. Of course, when we came to the districts, we could say, and we listened. But in order for this formal hearing not to be a "bird" for our voters, let's look at the question of consortium, maybe it will help us to improve the financing of two contributing issues, such as harvesting and raising children. These questions need to be brought together.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u24	National deputy of the Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u25	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Well, first of all, I have to make a note of you. You first announced five minutes of discussion, and then you put the first one to the vote. But since you've already done so, I'm making a second offer. Vote in the package the first draft of the decree and the third, namely, the issue of recovery and the question of gas consortium. I think it's very easy for us to get out of this situation, because ignoring such a question as the creation of an international gas consortium that is strategically important to our state would obviously not have Parliament. So once again, I repeat the proposal: the first and third decree to vote in one package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u26	National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u27	[[Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] . Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when you record a speech, you should let the deputy speak. You put questions first and second to the vote. I have a comment from my colleagues. Therefore, you should have been allowed to speak to all who had been enrolled in the talk within the time limit. And now, dear fellows, I'm asking those who didn't vote for the offer to hear about agriculture, the question of consortium, the question of children. I have a lot of questions for agrarians. Why don't we vote? This is a very important question! It's a very important question, Your Honor, one minute. In fact, we can avoid gathering bread. I make a proposal: both the first question of children and agricultural issues, and the question of consortium to put to the vote and vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u28	People's Deputies. We've already used the time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u29	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know that the "For the One Ukraine" block! And "Our Ukraine," they have long sneezed about America, Canada feeding them, they don't need our bread. They expect to be brought from beyond the ocean. But the needy people working on it cannot manage their fate because they do not know what the price will be for wheat, barley, Greek, and everything else. All they know is that the price of diesel and gasoline goes up every day. They know that John Dire, who buys them abroad, makes a hundred thousand dollars each and they want to eat our bread. So I ask you to vote because this is very important. Especially who went to the districts. And we have 50 percent of the rural districts, you promised them all that you would stand up for the village. And you came to the Supreme Council, and you sat in these soft chairs, and you forgot about the village. You'll be there in four years and you'll be putting dust in your eyes again!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes is up. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has been made that essentially amounts to one -- one more time trying to vote on each draft decree separately. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen carefully and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, we will vote, if necessary, in combination, in different ways. This is the 1186th draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Order, which is proposed for the Ukrainian Government's Day in the Supreme Council on July 19, 2002, with the following agenda: the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine's Office for the Improvement of Children in the Summer of 2002. Please vote. July 9th. Please vote. [[16:52:42]] For 253 Thank you, the decision is made. The draft has been approved. The next is the draft decree, and I ask you to listen carefully, dear colleagues, at number 1186-2, which is proposed for the Government of Ukraine to be held in the Supreme Council on 9 July 2002 with this agenda: on the state of preparation for the 2002 harvest. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:53:35]] For 266 I'll have the factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision has been taken on the agenda for the Government Day of July 9, 2002. Dear colleagues, according to the Regulations on Government Day, we can listen to no more than two questions. Then the third draft of the decree can be proposed by Government Day in September of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question, please calm down. Draft decrees granting approval for the appointment of Burma and Haricka as members of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets of Ukraine. The rapporteur on this issue is the Deputy Head of the State Commission on Securities and Markets Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u31	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, prominent national deputies. The State Commission on Securities and Markets, as a state authority today, is composed of five members: the heads of the commission and four members. According to article 6 of the Law on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities, the commission should consist of 7 persons. The same article clearly defines the mechanism of the commission’s work, which is that the basis of the commission’s work as a collegiate body is a meeting that is competent if there are at least five persons present. The Commission’s decision is considered to be if at least five votes are cast for it. These are the legislative requirements for quorum and for ensuring that decisions are taken by the commission. The presence of only five persons working instead of seven, taking into account the above-mentioned legislative requirements, makes it very difficult, and in some cases makes it virtually impossible for the commission to carry out its important tasks. The disease, shipping or temporary absence of one of the members of the commission does not allow the order established by law to decide on the approval of any regulatory act, the imposition of sanctions, the consideration of other important issues of regulation, control and development of the stock market in Ukraine. This may reflect negatively and may already reduce the capacity of the commission to implement the laws adopted by the Supreme Council on securities and the Funding Market, as well as to ensure the proper protection of the legitimate rights and interests of investors and the State. Under such conditions, the Securities Commission has been working for almost 8 months. And this is because Ukraine’s Funding Market requires a steady and high-quality response to the problems that arise there. In order to solve these problems, two submissions were made by the President of Ukraine. Two applications have been made to the Supreme Council for the appointment of two members of the commission for two vacant posts, as provided for by law. The solution to the staff issue is aimed at improving the efficiency of the work of the college body of the commission. Candidates entered. These are highly qualified professionals who are very well aware of the problems in the stock market and its regulatory issues. One of them is a lawyer with education, he works at the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers and directly deals with the stock market, takes part in the preparation of appropriate legislative decisions, programmes and measures aimed at developing the Ukrainian stock market and increasing its role in Ukraine's economy. The second candidate, Burmaka Mikola Alexiyovich, has been working on the commission since its inception. He's doing an important job, which is developing legislation on securities. In addition, I would like to remind you that he is a candidate for science and the subject of his dissertation precisely in relation to the development of the Ukrainian stock market. More detailed biographical information is available to you. And now there are very important issues before the commission, so it's either brought up in the Cabinet of Ministers 14 laws relating to the development of the stock market and it's still 30 that have a bearing on the development of this market. We believe that we have two highly qualified specialists with good professional training who are able to work productively and constructively in the field of government regulation and the development of the stock market. I am confident that the arrival of these experts on the committee will greatly strengthen its composition and enhance its effectiveness. I would like to ask you to support the President's application and to agree to the appointment of Burma and Hariecki as a member of the State Commission on Stock Market Affairs, which will allow for the effective work of the designated body.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u32	Are there any questions? Please sign up in three minutes for a question. Please record. On the board, please. Thank you. National MP Gurenco Stanovlav Ivanovich, a faction of Communists in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u33	Gurenko. Thank you. Please tell me, how did the release of a former member of the Peftyev commission take place? And how far does the discharge procedure correspond to the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u34	Thank you for asking. According to valid legislation, Mr. Peftiyev wrote an application to be released on his own request in October of that year. After that, the materials were all made available to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council considered the matter in two committees, and the matter was brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council made a decision. Already in February there is a statement by him about being released at his own request, which was also considered on the Supreme Council. And they didn't get enough votes. Under the Constitution and the current Labour Code, the President's Liberation Order was issued. The article of the Labour Code, he referred himself to in his statement, is the 38th and the 43rd part of the Constitution. And according to the Constitution and the Code, he was released at his own request, for no one has the right, let us say, under the Constitution not to grant such an opportunity. After returning from his vacation on his own account, he wrote a statement to the commission about his release at his own request, after which he was released as ordered. Member of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u35	Did you answer the questions? Please, next National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u36	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to the National Deputy Semenyuk Valentina.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u37	People's deputy Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u38	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask you not so many questions, but to ask you, especially Vladimir Mikhailovich. In accordance with the Law on State regulation of the Securities Market, the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets is a state body subordinated to the President of Ukraine and accountable to the Supreme Council. The head of the commission, its members are appointed and released under the consent of the Supreme Council. Here we were asked a question. P. was released without the approval of the Supreme Council. The two roses raised this question in the session room. Regrettably, the deputies of the Supreme Council never heard the real reason for P’s dismissal. At this time when the question of his release was being considered, Romashko was killed. Very strangely appropriate processes are taking place today on a committee of securities. Today, we are members of the commission of a special commission on privatization, which directly controls the circulation of securities, and we request you from Volodymira Mihajlovich. First of all, according to the position on the control committee, this is a question that we're going to consider at our own meeting, like the situation in the stock market and the work of the securities commission, then we're going to make the right proposals and put it into the hall. What I'm trying to say is that there's not one member of the commission, I'm thinking of both the finances, and that's not what we're talking about. Let us not violate the law that was passed in this room today. First let P. loose, let's get the situation straight, and then let's assign people. During this period, I don't think there's going to be much change. What's more, today and we see the big violations that are in the Fund market today that are actually not working. I ask that the proposal be made first to remove the issue and to bring it out after it has been properly prepared as provided for in the Securities Commission Act and as provided for in the procedures for the approval of candidates. I have no prejudice toward these people, perhaps they are good specialists, but I need to find out why. This is a proposal from the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, time for questioning is up. Thank you. Please have a seat. One minute, dear fellows, we still have a co-reporter, and then we'll be determined. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, we discussed these candidates on the committee and I report that these are highly qualified, well-known experts in the stock market, actively participated in the work of the Third Committee on Legal Projects on the stock market. And the committee, where they're represented, by the way, all the political forces, have unanimously supported it. But in this room, I feel a little politicized about this basic personnel issue. So I'd like to make an offer not to touch the dignity, human dignity of the people, I mean Haricsky and Burma, the honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd take this question really and ask the head of the Securities Commission and the two claimants to work on this issue on factions, I mean "Our Ukraine," "The One Ukraine" and others to not, I would stress, impress the human dignity of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u41	Thank you. Any other suggestions? No questions asked by the reporter? Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is essentially in line with the proposal made by the head of the special commission on privatization issues, and I think we can refer the matter to a more in-depth committee, as well as to a faction issue so that factions can meet and communicate with candidates for these positions. Is there no objection? They found out all the necessary information about Pechtiev’s release. Yeah? This is entrusted to the Committee on Finance and Banking, as well as to the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation. Don't we have to vote on that? Should we put a question to the vote? So are you in favour of voting, or are we making decisions? From the procedure of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u42	[[Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko]] . Your Honor, I'm addressing you. They put it in the agenda, put it on the vote day. Now you say, let's throw him on the committee. It's been 15 minutes. I don't understand it in principle, from the point of view of today's meeting, why was the question put into the hall on the day of the vote when it turns out to be unprepared. What is it? What more do you have to do? Why was he brought into the discussion? What was caused by man? What was the discussion? Now let's go to the committees. Is it possible to hold a session, a session of the day for voting when there are so many questions on the agenda for voting?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask those who take questions from the procedure to be present at all times. That's the first one. Second, to monitor the progress of the session and not to make baseless, bare accusations for the media. The question was included, agreed upon and voted for inclusion in the agenda for the submission of the relevant identity committee. Now there's a new situation: there's a proposal for two committees. I ask to vote in favour of this proposal to move this issue to a more detailed study This calls for a vote. That's why I'm asking questions. Is there a need to vote? So we're giving a protocol commission to the two committees to study this issue further and bring it up to date. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Decision on the release of judges. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u44	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You will be given a draft decision on the release and resignation of the judges of appeals and local courts. On the list. To relieve the judge of the local district court in the district of Galic Galina Petrovna in connection with her achievement of 65 years. Retire the Court of Appeal of Ternopil, Korluk Bogdan Andriyovich, Opionysev Galina Vasilovna, Judge of the local Novograd-Wallin City Court of Žitomir, Kriger Valentin Stepanovna, Judge of the local Yakimów District Court of Zaporozhye District of Bortov Vasil Ivanovich, Judge of the local Court of Lugansk, Čumakov Volodymira Timothyovich, Judge of the local Októw region(?) The local Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk district of Tkachenk Alexander Mihajlovich, judge of the local October District Court of Justice Khtrich Vladimir Sergiyyovich, local court-martial of the Zitomir region and Cuholski Mikhail Pavlovich, judge of the local military court of Simferopol garrison. We have the High Council of Justice and the judges' statements of resignation, either with age, or with other motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u45	Any questions to Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka? You don't? Please, National Deputy Levtsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u46	Your Honor, your colleagues! National MP Levcun, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I'd like a few words from Judge Tkachenko. Tuckenko a year ago wrote a health claim, but it was time, and today the judge’s health is satisfactory and he wrote a statement to reflect his previous statement. The judge works quite productively, the vast majority of the Polish national deputies support him. And I ask and consider it appropriate to remove today’s question from Judge Tkachenko, as health has improved, the judge is working normally and can work for our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u47	The point is that, indeed, after the meeting of the Committee of Legal Policy on June 14, June 17 came a statement from Tuckenka that he was withdrawing his application for dismissal. So, I think you can agree with the proposal of the People's Deputy Levtsun, and look at this issue in the High Council of Justice. Therefore, there is a proposal to vote on the draft Supreme Council ruling on the release of named judges, except for Tkachenk Alexander Mihajlovich, judge of the local District Court of Poltava. And let's go back to that question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u48	Thank you. Honorable deputies, no other questions, no other suggestions? The motion for a ruling is based on the exclusion of Judge Tkachenka Alexander Mihajlovich. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the floor to vote? [[17:14:15]] For 323
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u50	Thank you. We're tasking the committee to study the matter of Judge Tuckenka. We're giving protocol. The following question is about the dismissal of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The reporter is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. A letter from the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Victor Skomorokh, on the release from office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, from the age of 65, was sent to us by the Committee on Legal Policy. The committee has considered this letter and proposes a draft regulation of this content. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 126, part five, paragraph 2, of article 149 of the Constitution of Ukraine, decides to release Cornienne Mikola Ivanovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with the achievement of 65 years."
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u52	Any questions? Please, National Deputy Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u53	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, I have a question for you. You know, according to the Constitution, the composition of the Constitutional Court is 18 judges. This is the norm of the Constitution. Today, the Constitutional Court is composed of 17 judges, that is, this rule is not being fulfilled. Now we're going to vote, the warehouse is going to be 16 judges. I want to ask you a question: does the Constitutional Court have the right to make any decision in a composition that does not conform to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u54	He has the right to accept. But here's the question that we have to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court in our session. There'll be two vacancies. And in order to do that, we need to solve the question of the liberation of Cornienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u55	Thank you. Any more questions? None. Then we'll go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Immortal People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u56	Thank you. Immoderate, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I don't want to ask so many questions about how to initiate the problem or the reward or the thanks of some Michael Ivanovich. The point is, it's the person who did the most in Ukraine for scientific reasons, theoretically based on the development of legislation, and working in the Constitutional Court on issues of local self-government. And to go so simply, we do not use ourselves to thank this man for his tremendous credit to Ukraine. So I'd like to ask you to initiate the award of Nikola Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u57	Roman Petrovich, thank you for this offer. I think we need backup. For example, Victor Skomorocha, the head of the Constitutional Court, asks questions about his honorary letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you support it, then. Please make other suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u58	National MP Black, there's a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u59	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! Was the release of Judge Korneyenka unexpected? Why are we today bringing the composition of the Constitutional Court to 16 people? Why do we not at the same time set one judge free and appoint another? I'll see you in a week. But we can't delay this process and break it, right Assadchev said, the norm of the Constitution. It's not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u60	The point is that Judge Korneyenko was 65 years old on May 10th, not long ago. So this process is not delayed. When the appeal came to us, we promptly considered it on the committee, promptly and promptly brought it up for consideration by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u61	Dear National Deputies! Let's go to the vote. It is the whole draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release from office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Kornienka Mikli Ivanovich. This is Project 1246. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:19:13]] For 327 Z-327, decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments, governments and the public of the member states of the European Union. Reporter: Head of the European Integration Committee, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished national MPs, analysis of the election programmes of parties and blocs that have gone to the Supreme Council shows that there is no political force in today's Supreme Council against the European Union integration course. I would like to remind you that in 1993 the Supreme Council of the Basic Directions of Foreign Policy of Ukraine defined this as a priority for foreign policy. The message with which the President of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council these days focuses on the question of the implementation of the course for the European elections. The support of European choice is increasing in society. It's enough to say that different sociological surveys show support between 60 and 73 percent. Taking into account that the next summit "Ukraine-European Union" will be held on 4 and 5 July, it is proposed that the European Union parliaments and governments should be addressed to the European Parliament with appropriate reference. The draft was prepared by a group of members of the Committee on European Integration led by Oleg Zarubinski and approved by the committee. I would like to point out that this is actually the first statement made today by the Supreme Council in its view of one of the fundamental principles of external policy of European choice. I'm calling on the National MPs to support a draft of the appropriate address during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear national deputies, there is a question for Boris Ivanovich. Please sign up. Three minutes. On the board, please. National MP Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u64	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Please pass the word to your colleague Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u65	National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u66	Roman Zvaric, 90 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we're a little late with this appeal in connection with the fact that I'm making a special point here that the Ukraine-EU Summit is taking place in just a few days in Copenhagen from 4 to 5 July. In connection with the presidential message, which clearly defined the main strategic vectors of our nation, it seems to me that it would be absolutely appropriate for us to accept such an appeal. This address was considered in our committee. We were trying to find a very balanced document. And all the members of the committee present at this meeting, I stress, have supported this very text without exception. So I ask you very much to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u67	That was the performance, that wasn't the question. Please, National Deputy Simonenko, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u68	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear reporter, please comment on the statement by Romano Prodi, who made a literal statement in Moscow during the days and stated that if Russia is not accepted in the near future, Ukraine is more. That's the first time. So the content of this statement, in general, what is it for? But I also have some principles in mind. Especially when such assessments are made that Ukraine’s involvement in European processes through integration will strengthen Europe’s internal and external security. This means that ours will, so to speak, shoot artillery and rockets in Europe with our missiles. Maybe we'll crash the planes there and destroy the houses. This is the first time. It's different. Well, to whom do we say that, we've been eyeing and when we write, Ukraine has been demonstrating the stability of economic development for two years. Didn't you and I review the implementation of the 2001 budget? They're talking about growth, let's say. Industrial production, and the budget is not being implemented and the money is not being received. Europe and the world have acknowledged that Ukraine is the most corrupt nation. Who do we love now? I'm a lot of other examples, so let's say I can give you, and I'm offering you, my dear fellows, you can't accept this text at all. You can't take him. The document must be balanced. This is accepted on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament. So still, answer these questions, and then we're going to express each of our positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u70	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I can also cite other statements, including Romano Prodi and other leaders of the countries of the European Union, and these statements show that, as a whole, the European Union is growing in support of Ukraine's desire to become an associate and later a full member. Romano Prodi is not the only person and there is no monopoly on the position of the European Union. The position of the European Union is shaped by member countries, member countries of the European Union. With regard to the possible contribution to strengthening security in Europe, this is not just a prospect, but a reality. Ukraine is recognized as an active participant in the process of strengthening stability and security in Europe, and Ukraine is an active participant in peacekeeping operations. This is well - known and, of course, gives authority to our nation. Ukraine is involved in peacekeeping operations in the Balkans, a settlement in Transnistria. So we can now talk about Ukraine’s undeniable contribution to strengthening stability and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, the time is up, we need it. Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Thank you. We need to discuss this with a reduced procedure, which is two pros and two opposites. I'm asking you to sign up the National Deputies for a brief discussion. We're the ones who wrote it down for questions. On the board, please. National Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction. Are you "for" or "against"? Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u72	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u73	Simonenko, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u74	[[Simonenko, the Communist faction]] . Dear colleagues, I would really like to ask you to take this document seriously and draw your attention to the following items set out in this draft document. Well, on the first part of the question. Romano Prodi's position in Moscow, expressed in a literal manner, which stated that, yes, 10-12 countries would be considered, all others - in the next few or perhaps ten years, no statements would be considered on either Russia or Ukraine. That's a first. So the question is, why should we take this statement now? Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the need for an objective assessment of internal processes, within Ukraine and, above all, what concerns all of us. We, the People's Deputies, thus agree that there are supposed to be positive changes. But the President himself stated that forty million Ukrainian citizens were citizens who were below the poverty line. And that has nothing to do with the assessment that is being made here with regard to the economic development of our country. Next. I would like to draw your attention to the message from the point of view of the Copenhagen criteria. For there, excuse me, respectable and dear colleagues, it is a completely different tax system. And we must also consider that these conditions are in accordance with our national interests. And Taraszuk doesn't accidentally hide these phrases because tomorrow we have to meet these conditions. I'm talking to the soldiers, that is, the ones who went to this school. There is a cleverly closed programme to essentially support the Supreme Council for Ukraine's accession to NATO, to join NATO. It's only here that it says, "Ukraine welcomes the expansion of the zone of peace in Central Eastern Europe." You can't do that. Next. Mr. Tarasyuk is proud that the Ukrainian army, or representatives of the Ukrainian army, are smoking meat in various peacekeeping operations, Europe is ashamed of it and no State in Europe is ever proud of it. And for money, they have to send to the hottest places as earners in order to supposedly contribute to the development of the world's processes. And the last. Dear People's Deputies, have you and I decided that Ukraine has already entered the SOT? Nope. Why is it then estimated that Ukraine, you see, has already brought all legislation into line with the World Trade Organization. But we cannot be so naive today if we vote for this decision. The Communist faction calls for a categorical non-voting of the text of the statement and a revision of the text of the statement, which is not in accordance with the reality and position of Ukraine in foreign policy relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u75	National Deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine". Please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u76	It seems to me that in the words of the reverend Peter Mikolaiovich, who has just heard, more emotional than rational. Although such words certainly have the right to exist. It seems to me that there is no NATO word in the text that is proposed for discussion. That's a fact. Yeah, not for someone who's sorry, not for someone, but for NATO, beyond the boundaries of this project. Next, the European choice of Ukraine is an official doctrine of Ukraine under the current period, which is provided by the entire regulatory framework on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine operates, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine as head of state. Thirdly, in 1994, a partnership and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the European Union was entered into, i.e., now the Supreme Council does not begin this process of some radical progress towards Europe, but only very slowly, only in the eighth year since its launch, does the Supreme Council finally embody the desire to fully join the European Union. And by the way, the main official document, which is the message, is directly called the European Choice of Ukraine, is for development in 1994. Next, we're not talking about the EU as a self-sufficient thing -- just wanting to be someone in Europe -- and that's all. We are talking about the economic, social and legal standards that will exist in Europe, which are anchored in the regulatory framework and are to be transposed and adapted in Ukraine. This is concern for citizens, for our voters, who want to live as they do in Europe, for its standards and canons, not as it does in Asia. Next, we're talking about human rights when we're talking about Europe. The Council of Europe is the institution that cares about this issue more than anything else, but the European Union is an organization that will not allow us to talk about any economic disruption in a country where human rights will not be respected. And so we're talking more about the European Union, and we're hoping that the legal standards that will exist in the countries of the European Union, along with the promotion of Ukraine to this structure, will be brought here -- this is the main task. Sixth, the Russian Federation has an active relationship with the European Union. We do not enter into any geopolitical international or legal conflict with our northern neighbour. On the contrary, we support the course of all recent months of President Putin for as close as possible cooperation with the European Union. And that's the last of it. The person who initiates this appeal, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, is a fundamental expert on these issues, he represents the official structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the newly formed Committee on Euro-integration, our parliamentary structure, and we have no reason not to trust the text of this appeal, or to express any previous mistrust. On the contrary, I think it is our duty to support this appeal and to ensure that Ukraine is promoted to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u77	People's MP, Francis Igor, are you in? Next. National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, are you in favour or against? Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u78	[[National MP Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u79	People's deputy, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I'm a little surprised by the content of this text, because it was an experienced diplomat, Boris Ivanovich. And Boris Ivanovich, like no one else, as the minister of foreign affairs, well knows that they are governed by not the statements and not the letters that we send, but by the data they operate, and they have numerous analytical groups and centres that provide, indeed, the true information about Ukraine. So if we're sending such a letter, and the faction at all for that letter to be, and we're not giving the right information, it puts at all, well, the seriousness of our intentions, doubting the seriousness of our intentions: really, we're trying to join this community, or we just want to go somewhere to report, to go to Copenhagen, to declare our position there. So I encourage you to go back to this question later, really, to look at the committee text of this statement, to make it, really, with the comments that we have, we will give it to Boris Ivanovich. And then vote. And I think we can't do without what we really have is a violation of human rights. If we don't talk about it, and the world knows about it, it says it all, then, really, I confirm it again, it testifies to our intentions.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u81	Thank you. So you're against it. National Deputy Grigorovich. Are you in favour or against? Are you going to perform? Please, Grigorovitch is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u82	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. The noble colleagues, in the courtyard of the 21st century, and the parliament of Ukraine, who has just been elected, must be prepared to respond adequately to the global challenges of the 21st century, to which the parliaments of countries around the world are willing to respond professionally and, above all, to Europe, where we belong with you and we want it, whether we do not want it. Whether we support this appeal or not, that's not the point. Because if we don't support it, we're going to look like we're making some motions at the bottom of the ocean small at a time when the great ocean wave is going in a certain direction. I don't think we can stop her. The other thing is that we're not making a test is that the newly elected parliament of Ukraine is not ready to give an adequate professional response in the context of global global processes in favour of national interests in its state. In view of that, I would like to point out that a completely professional correct address has been prepared, the head of our committee, which we have just chosen. Both Russia, Ukraine, and many countries in Europe are taking a step in favour of European choice for the welfare of our peoples, in order to be European civilized standards of life, social protection, social security and understanding. I assure you that this step is in favour of the national interests of Ukraine. And I think our parliament has to hand over this original little testicle to intelligence and eruditeness. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u83	Thank you. We're on. Dear colleagues, with a reduced procedure: two for, two for. Dear colleagues, we've been discussing this under a reduced procedure. I beg you not to scream. Dear colleagues, the question of voting is first placed on the ground. I ask you, honourable national MPs, honourable colleagues to recognize the importance of the effective voting of this document. People's deputies, please. Please vote. [[17:38:43]] For 261 Decision taken. The factions, please. For the reasons of the vote, the Turkish people's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u84	Dear Chairman! I ask you to give the word to Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u85	National deputy of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u86	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear National Deputies! Our faction generally supports this document or on the basis of what we voted for, but there are things we cannot vote for. We support this document, despite the fact that it is the support of Kuchma, who is going to Copenhagen, and, as it were, it is the political support of Parliament for its positioning and unlocking its political isolation, which he experienced as a leader of the state for all its criminal acts. That's the first one. We support the fact that, unlike his presidential letter, the principles of Copenhagen, which refer to the rule of law rather than to the rule of law that was written in the presidential letter, are correctly spoken of. I don't know why the President stands up for the idea of the rule of law that Visinsky defended in Stalin's time. So I support that. But our faction insists that a paragraph on page 4 below be deleted from the determination and appeal, saying that, for two years now, Ukraine has been demonstrating the stability of economic development, that we have a positive effect in the form of a substantial improvement in the social situation, an increase in the standard of living of the population. It's a complete lie. Europe can't lie, let Kuchma lie, but parliament, sorry, shouldn't do that. We don't have a higher standard of living, we don't have social success, we don't have economic stability. That is why we insist that this paragraph be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, what other suggestions will there be? National deputy Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u88	Honorable national MPs, mostly by the majority, were based on a proposal for a text. An additional proposal has been made by the Chief, I think the chairman should now put this proposal to the vote. If it gets the right amount, we can count it, if it doesn't, we accept this text as a whole as it was suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal of the People's Chamber to remove the last paragraph: "For two years, Ukraine has demonstrated stability in economic development, deep structural economic reforms have had a significant positive effect in terms of sustained economic growth, substantial improvement in the social situation, and an increase in the standard of living of the population." Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[17:42:23]] For 133 The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to vote on this draft decree as a whole. Honourable National Deputies, as a whole, are voting on the draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the governments and the public of the States members of the European Union, number 1243. Please support the people’s deputies, taking into account the importance of the project. Please vote. [[17:43:12]] For 257 Decision taken. The factions, please. by factions Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Draft Decision to terminate the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine Medvedchuk. Rapporteur of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Valentin Grigorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! On June 19, yesterday, a statement was made to the Supreme Council by the national deputy Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich concerning his appointment as head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. The relevant decree was signed by the President on June 12, this year. The Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered this application yesterday, and a draft ruling is proposed for your consideration, which you all received in the morning. It deals with the following: the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Medvedchuk. In line with part two of article 78, which states that the Ukrainian national deputy cannot have another representative mandate or be in the public service, and paragraph one, I stress, paragraph one of the second part of article 81, which states that the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy is suspended in the event of, paragraph one, completing the mandate of his personal application. It is therefore proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a decision: it decides to suspend the term of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, elected from the multi-mandatory public constituency, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine in connection with its personal application for parliamentary powers. [[united]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u91	Respectable national MPs, apparently, are understandable. I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. This is draft regulation 1247. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:46:28]] For 280 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies, in view of the fact that we need to consider and make a decision today on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Notes between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a Japanese cultural grant for the provision of audio, video equipment and musical instruments to the National Academic Theatre of the Opera and the ballet of the Ukraine of the name of Shewchenka, I would now like to ask him to consider and accept this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to listen to these questions? People's deputies would like to vote on Project 0004 as a whole. [[17:47:44]] For 349 Thank you. Decision taken. For reasons of vote, please, Simonenko, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u92	[[Simonenko, Communist faction]] Dear colleagues, when the faction discussed the order of the day, we decided to support this draft law on ratification. But speaking of voting motives, I'd like to draw your attention to the next one. How much is funded by culture, science, education that we already have. So let's say, our famous, well-known cultural establishment, the National Academy of Opera and Ballet, we're practically providing this kind of audio equipment and musical instruments just because Japan is funding us. It's really a shame for Ukraine if we finance the National Academy Theatre with this kind of money. I emphasize once again, the Communist faction voted, voted, and today we claim once again we will support culture, but we must say frankly that Ukraine is unable to fund the best institution of its culture at the National Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are about to conclude the evening session, I would like to now consider a draft decree on the approval of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2003 so that we can make the right decision and that the government can work on the budget. Is there no objection? The responsible national deputy, Poshenko, head of the Committee, Peter Alexiyovich, please. Please turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, it was stipulated that we would consider the budgetary process with the adoption of the Budget Resolution, ahead of Parliament's decision on the government's report. Because we need to draw conclusions from the government in 2001 so that they can be included in the budget resolution. So if there's no objection, I'd start looking at budgetary issues from the government's report. Once Parliament assesses the proper implementation of the budget by the government, we will be able to move on to the second issue. And I would like to ask, maybe without discussion, to put this question to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u95	Is there no objection, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies? The draft decree on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2001" is then under consideration. Please report: National MP Poshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u96	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to begin by answering the previous question of the respectable Peter Mikolaiovich. What is the state of our economy, and why should we involve Japanese funds in order to finance it? This is because culture was financed by 60 percent in 2001. And even those modest funds that were planned in the 2001 budget, even they didn't reach their targets, and that's why we have to make that decision. But, dear colleagues, this is just one of the small problems the government faced in the implementation of the 2001 budget. We've spent two days on this and everyone knows the situation with the re-establishment of the special fund, and the fact that today more than two billion have been re-distributed by the government without the Supreme Council, and that today certain government structures, in fact, have been re-energizing the funds of this special fund, and the poor implementation of the budget and the increase in GDP did not match the increase in the income levels of the population. That's why the budget committee proposed a draft resolution to you, where we recognize the government's work in implementing the 2001 budget as unsatisfactory. In addition, the decision of the budgetary committee suggests that the Office of the Attorney-General should be asked to examine the budgetary situation and to bring to justice the responsibility of the directors of the central executive bodies. The decision of the Budget Committee also includes the request of the Head of the Supreme Council to send a letter to the President proposing that the members of the Government be held accountable, which allowed budgetary irregularities, a budget violation. But at the same time, a few suggestions were made, and we have four in order today. The first proposal, 1181, is a government proposal, a draft decision, yes. This is the government's regulation, where the government's work, where the government's report comes out. We think it's a non-practice position, the government worked properly and Parliament should evaluate the implementation of the budget by the government. The second proposal, 1181-P, is a draft regulation made by members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which is exactly what I'm presenting to you. You know that the Budget Committee is 39 people's deputies and the absolute majority, only one voted against, all voted in favour of the Committee's decision, considering that the appropriate level of political representation on the Committee of Budgets is maintained. The third project, Regulation 1881-1, is a draft of the Order given by the Turkin, Kirilchuk. It suggests that the actual content of the decision is the same. But it is proposed that the report of the Government not approve and bring to justice the General Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for improper control. I don't know how well I'm analyzing all the proposals, but in my opinion, the government's failure to approve the report led in previous years to the fact that the Attorney General's Office did not take these cases and did not make the appropriate decisions. And the last project, 1881-2, is being implemented by the people's deputies of Szvidenko, Rabbit, Shevchuk, Cadyuk, Olujko, Hop, Toustouchov. Similarly, it is suggested that the government not be evaluated, in fact, by a rewritten decision of the budget committee, but once again it is proposed to take only to the known. So I would ask you, Mr. President, to support the decisions of the budgetary committee, to give an appropriate assessment to the government so that, on the basis of these assessments, the Supreme Council can continue the budgetary process and take into account the numerous shortcomings that have been encountered in the implementation of the 2001 Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, is it clear that we may be voting on draft regulations in order for them to come? Put to the vote on the basis of Project 1181 of the Cabinet of Ministers, it's government. People's deputies will be appointed, please. Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u98	The Budget Committee does not support this. [[17:56:11]] For 115
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u99	I'll have the factions, please. Dear National Deputies, vote on the basis of Project 1181-p of the Budget Committee. Based on the base. People's deputies, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u100	The Budget Committee requests support for this draft decision. [[17:56:47]] For 228 The factions. Dear colleagues, who will be offerings, comments. Turkish national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! First, Vladimir Mikhailovich should be given the floor, at least for a minute, to all the authors of the decrees, then it will be in line with the Rules and the current legislation. But since I did not get the word, I make the following suggestions and the faction supports these proposals to the committee’s decision. First offer. They are all, by the way, printed in a decree made by the deputies of our faction. The work of the State Tax Administration under the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2001 is also unsatisfactory. Second offer. To recognize the discontent of the work of the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the non-target use of budgetary resources, the disclosure of the theft of budgetary resources and the investigation of crimes related to the violation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Next offer. The Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Council will take the necessary steps to address the budget violations and inform the Supreme Council of the involvement of those responsible for the violation of the law. This item is close to the budget proposal, so it can be removed. But the next paragraph can, we believe, necessarily have to be included. Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2003 is to be considered only after hearing the Supreme Council of Information of the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on appropriate responses to budgetary violations and crimes and on bringing the guilty to justice. Requesting that these proposals be put to the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u102	Thank you. The P.O. of Ratushnjak was an offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u103	Hello, may I speak, please? Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Mikhailovich, head of the committee, went to discuss the Budget Resolution all day yesterday. Today, there is speculation from Dusty that this can only be done after the report. The budget resolution is the ideaology of budgeting for the following year. Yesterday there were sound suggestions and criticisms, and I liked the speech both by Burjak and Pinzenika. But why did none of the factions, any group that criticized the government, give its version of the Budget Resolution? So this is how we're set up for constructive work? We want to criticize and delay, criticize, and delay. And you don't have to speculate that the report, which, by the way, your faction is going to have to be divided with Kinach, and the budget resolution is the same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, well, since the question was before me, dear colleagues, we've already called off the Communist Party ruling once before so that we don't have to figure out for a second time that we're looking at a report right now. And according to the Budget Code, it has to be preceded, that is, the government's budget report is first considered, and only then is the budget resolution being considered. So, logically, right now, we're looking at and making decisions in accordance with the Budget Code. I advise you to study the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I would like to speak to the Minister of Finance of Yusko. And then we'll vote on the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not waste time repeating the argument that was made during my report from the rostrum right here in the session room. I'm the only one who wanted to say that, not my opinion, and perhaps in the opinion of the government too, it won't be sincere to ignore or ignore the macroeconomic indicators, the positive that happened last year. The reasons for the failure to implement the budget are not always exclusively in the hands of the government. So there was an offer during my report from the rostrum that the government’s work was not considered sufficient. That's what I'd ask for. I'm sorry, it's not quite accepted yet. I beg your pardon! I'd like to take this into account when voting in general for. through the transcript of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work for 15 minutes. People's MP Rudzkowski and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u109	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. The offer of a finance minister may normally be considered in the Supreme Council, but it should be put to the vote by Vladimir Mikhailovich and put to 226 votes. And move on, don't delay time, because we don't vote and the government won't be able to prepare the budget. So let's not take too long, put the minister of finance's proposal to a vote, and if it gets 226, put it all the way and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u110	Thank you. Honourable National MPs have voted to include in the draft decree proposed by the Budget Committee four positions: second, third, fourth, fifth, in the draft decree of 1181-8. Shall we vote on each individual proposal? Dear colleagues, paragraph 2 let's put it all together. I'd like to ask you to determine your national MPs. Paragraphs 2, 3, 4.5 are included in the draft regulation proposed by the budget committee. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[18:03:41]] For-149 The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made by the Minister of Finance is insufficient. People's deputies, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that the Ministry of Finance's proposal was contained in another decree, 1881-1. We based our decision on another draft. That's why we have to put it to a vote in general because it changes the content of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u112	For reasons of vote, the People’s Deputy Martinyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u113	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you have no right to vote on the grounds that the Minister of Finance is not a subject of the legislative initiative. Such a proposal may be made by any of the national deputies, not by the Minister of Finance or by the entire Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, it cannot be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come from what the finance minister represents today's Cabinet of Ministers and he has the right. If you don't mind, we won't put it to the vote. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Well, it's a rather questionable statement that in this case, the finance minister, representing the Cabinet of Ministers, cannot make a proposal. If you claim that, as the national MP of Ukraine, I am asked to put to the vote what the minister of finance has said, namely, to recognize the government's work as insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u116	Dear National MPs, National Deputy Zvaric, and we will now be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u117	Dear national MPs, it's not. There is absolutely no doubt that the Minister of Finance, if he has no mandate to make proposals to the adopted decision on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers, he cannot put it here in this sessionary room. This is beyond doubt. Of course, the Ukrainian National Deputy, any one of us has the right to do it instead of the Minister of Finance. But in this case, if we change only one word in this decree, but we leave the responsibility that we have to assign to the prosecution, the decree is said to have no merit at all. So what I'm asking in general is that the proposal in this case is already a national deputy of Ukraine, it's simply inappropriate to go out of the content of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have come from the fact that the Ukrainian National MP has the right to legislative initiative and has the right to make an offer. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made by the Zarubinsky People's Deputies for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers to be considered insufficient. Please determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u119	The chairman of the committee does not support this decision. We don't support it, we don't support it. [[18:07:41]] For-147
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u120	"For" - 147. You see.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u121	In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is solved. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. The factions. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 1181-p, is put to the vote, taking into account the proposals that we voted on in Decree 1181-1, as a whole. People's deputies, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u123	The Committee on Budgets supports the request for a vote. In general. The Committee on Budgets supports. [[18:08:27]] For 213
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u124	The factions. For the reasons of the vote, please sign up. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we have continued our work for 15 minutes. For reasons of vote, please register. Let me explain. National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u125	[[George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction "Our Ukraine"]] Dear Chief and honourable colleagues, I address all of you and all of us, those elected to the Supreme Council for lists, and especially those elected to the Supreme Council from one-man election districts. If you've run a pre-election campaign, if you're meeting with voters in your constituencies right now, then you know the real state of affairs, and what is happening, what is the standard of living of our people, our voters, what salaries and pensions are going on, which is a crazy failure to implement the state budget already this year. If we simply keep our eyes closed and do not give, at least, a political assessment, then we have a price as representatives of our constituents as representatives of our people in the highest legislative body of our nation. Therefore, as parliamentarians, we are obliged to make a proper assessment of what happened to the budget last year, no matter how sad that may be. I may feel the same way, but the fact is, it's a stubborn thing. And let's not be guided by any political benefits at the moment, but by the real picture that is. Because we represent the people here. And the people won't forgive us if we play a double game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u126	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, well, first of all, when we try to evaluate the government for the implementation of the 2001 budget, I think we should give an assessment to governments. Since the two governments participated in the implementation of the budget for 5 months there was one government and then there was another government for 7 months. I think that's what we need to pay attention to. But I wanted to remind both the head of the committee and my distinguished colleagues that, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 62, part 5, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on a report on the implementation of the government budget, rather than concluding on the work of the government. And in that context, I propose to use the preamble and the first paragraph of the officially registered decree on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2001 as number 1181/2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u128	Thank you. National Deputy Drogunzov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u129	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to convey my word to Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich, representative of the Ukrainian Company's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u130	People's MP Gurenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to this. We had this little talk yesterday about the main thrusts of fiscal policy, and the thing is, it's very clear that our economy is not able to handle the minimum government budget, and we need to understand that. And no longer should we laugh, as they say, in the palm of our hands, but we should think about who will be responsible and what to do next. How much can you do? The 2001 budget, I ask the Minister of Finance to listen, the 2001 budget has been seceded without your participation. It's a violation, it's a responsibility, it's a criminal responsibility. And close our eyes to it, whether we're Communists or Democrats or monarchs, we can't, we can't! And one more thing. I want to repeat what I said yesterday. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you cannot translate everything into one minister of finance. Yesterday there was no discussion of the Prime Minister after two hours of discussion, no vice-premier. Today, Mr. Yusko has been exhibited, whom I respect, and I believe he is doing his best. But if the economy doesn't give money, what can it do? I need the government to answer! And we insist that the proposal contained in the draft Budget Committee be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u132	Thank you. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u133	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Solidarity Group, Our Ukraine, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I thank the Zarubinsky People's Deputy for what he said about the thesis on governments. And I'll take this opportunity to say, yes, the Yushchenka government has made the budget of 2000 inconvenient. Made the 2001 budget inequitable! He made a tremendous growth, which was nowhere in the SND and in Europe, he established. And today's government not only lost it all, it not only increased the debt of VAT, it set up mines that we'll still be waiting for and keep the results coming in the fall. Of course, Mr. Yusko can't be responsible for the full-time work of the government today, because he's blowing off steam today, he's been working part-time, and he's working pretty professionally, and there's no questions here. But what we can't see is that the trends that are going on this year's budget are absolutely frightening. So the assessment is very soft, it's actually a crime against the Ukrainian people -- everything that happens to the budget. I ask you to vote in favour of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to abide by the Rules. We've been given time to make the introductions for the reasons for the vote. Peter Alexiyovich, do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. If anyone is in the way, I'd like to remind Zarubinsky's colleague to look at the macroeconomic indicators for 4 months in 2001, I'd find 4 billion stocks left in that government and then translate responsibility. I would also like to remind my distinguished colleagues. Comrade Zarubinski, you seem to have rushed somewhere, even pulled the cards. And I would also like to remind you that we are actually making a decision today that recognizes the government's work as unsatisfactory. This same decision was made five years in a row. So I would like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to re-vote a draft budget committee that was accepted as a whole and to go to the budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u136	Dear National Deputies! The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy insists on the rep.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u137	Thank you. I'm entitled to a replica. My last name was named. Obviously, the honourable chairman of the committee did not understand why he was standing. The point is that the performance is over, and now there's a completely different procedure. But I would like to point out that I have quoted relevant articles of the Constitution, and I remind you that the Supreme Council is taking decisions on the State Budget Implementation Report, not on the government's work. You're reaching a conclusion. First. The other one. As a result, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be approved by the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2001 State Budget. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, at any rate, the performance of the state budget cannot be changed anymore because they come out of accounting and are not back in time. Therefore, it is not logical to ask questions about the non - validation of the report. Another point is that we can criticize and give appropriate assignments. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to remind you that it's 18.17. You were to continue the sessions of the Supreme Council as chairman for 15 minutes. Time's up, we can call it a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-06-20-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, with the insistence of the people's deputies, I'm re-voting Project 1181-P as a whole. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[18:18:23]] For 216 Dear National Deputies! The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been instructed by the committee to deal with this issue so that we can consider it at the next Thursday and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I'd like to make an announcement, because we need to rewind the Council system, because we have about seven new factions. Please, I'll make an announcement for a few minutes. In accordance with article 4.2.1, paragraph 6, and article 4.2.2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meetings of the parliamentary groups and factions, I inform you of the formation of the parliamentary group "Democratic Initiatives" consisting of 16 national deputies. To represent the MP group authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine, Gavriz Stepan Bogdanović, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich; to represent the MP group "The People's Government" in the 17 national deputies of Ukraine to represent the MP group authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine, Bespalog Oleg Pavlovich, Hubski Bogdan Volodymyrovich, Mirimsky Lev Yulievich, Osik Sergija Grigorovovich. About the formation of a parliamentary faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudova Ukraine, consisting of 38 Ukrainian national deputies. To represent the deputy faction authorized by the national deputies of Tihypak, Sharov, Gurieva, Derkača, Oneichuk, Ioff, Tobacco, Veretennikov. About the formation of a parliamentary group of Ukrainian farmers, made up of 16 Ukrainian national deputies. To represent the parliamentary group authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine, Vaszczuk, Katerina Timofiyevna, Slavu Viktor Andriyovich, Tereshuk Sergija Mikolayevich, Jeremjeev Igor Mironović, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovovich. About the formation of the Democratic People's Party as an MP, made up of 18 people's deputies. To represent the deputy faction authorized by the National Deputies of Ukraine Bandurku, Rabbit, Zarubinski, Karpova, Kosinova, Desert Tent, Petrova, Suprun, Tolstouchova, Švidenka, Shevchuk. About the formation of the Ukrainian MP's faction. It's made up of 35 national deputies. To represent the MP's faction authorized by the national deputies of Bogtirov, Bastril, Kuras, Final, King. About the formation of the European Choice Group. It's made up of 15 national deputies. To represent the MPs authorized by the national deputies of Savic and Potapov. You are given a personal composition of MPs and factions. I also inform you that it is authorized to represent the MPs of Ukraine: the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of Kravčuk Leonid Makarović, Andreszuk, Nechiporenko, Shepetin, Neciporak, Shepetin, Papiev; the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko Timoshenko, Matvienka, Onopenka, Turkinova and Belarus. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will continue the meeting at 10 a.m., and we will consider the issue of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
