ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. 354 national deputies registered. Please show by factions. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an announcement. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrna and Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich. Let's welcome them and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few more announcements. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform you that the following national deputies are authorized to represent the deputy faction "Our Ukraine": Kostenka Jurija Ivanovič, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich, Rybauk Oleg Borisovich and Udovenko Gennadija Josipovich. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I shall inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the entry into force of the People's Deputies of Burjak Aleksandra Vasilovich, Galijev Ernest Edouardovich, Long Taras Aleksijovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, Sterbán Vladimir Petrovich, Jaroslav Alexija Vladilenović, of the "One Ukraine" faction. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues defined by the day’s order. Today, it is suggested that the issue of the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be continued. Dear National Deputies! On this issue was introduced the draft decree number 1119 of the Ukrainian National Deputies, directed by the factions Peter Mikolajovich Simonenk, Alexander Alexander Moroz, Victor Andryovich Yushchenk. This draft decree is based on the conclusion of the Chief Scientific Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the conclusion you're about to come up with. As long as it's sold out, let me announce it. "Prosecution for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads and First Deputy Heads of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call. The general order of the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined in articles 4.2.3, 4.4.3, 4.4.4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In line with article 4.2, part 2 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "deputy groups under this Rules are entitled to a proportional representation in all bodies of the Supreme Council and of the official parliamentary delegations" and therefore the right to a proportional representation in the leadership of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[fractions]] [[coming out of the number of their members]] Article 4.4. 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine state that "candidatures for the election of the heads of the permanent commissions of the Supreme Council and their members shall be issued at meetings of the respective parliamentary groups in accordance with the quotas of the proportional representation of the parliamentary groups and taking into account the agreement of the candidates." [[fractions]] [[fractions]] Article 4.4.4 of the Rules provides that "the election of the heads of the permanent commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be carried out on a list as a whole, without discussion, by a roll-call vote; the result of this vote shall be a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council. List of candidates for the posts of permanent commission heads applying the provisions of Article 4.4. [[by one candidate for each post]] 3 agrees with the Conciliation Board of Deputies. [[fractions]] The question of the election of the heads of standing committees does not need to be prepared by the permanent commissions of the Supreme Council." The proposal for the appointment of the heads and first deputies of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the draft decree is not taken into account by the four factions provided for in the Rules of Procedure for the Proportional Representation of Deputies and the requirements for the approval of candidates for each post by the Conciliation Council of Deputies. " [[fractions]] Dear National Deputies! There are no other draft regulations, and then we need to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the case of procedural issues, please determine the time-to-five minutes. Please sign up, distinguished national MPs. Please record. Please put the information on the board. National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone of the Bulba People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u2	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, SCI]] Please pass the word to Stanislav Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u3	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u4	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Electoral District 187, Herson District]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, after examining in detail the findings of our lawyers, believes that article 4.4. 3 The Rules define the general rule for the election of committee heads. [[and, if correct, the text of the Rules refers to the standing commissions of the Supreme Council]] At the same time, the Rules provide for a different approach to the matter, an exception to Article 4.4. 3, this is article 3.2.3. And since we have the customary right, and we already have the experience that has been tested in the Ukrainian House in 2000, where we have not voted in proportion again, I propose: a variant introduced by a number of factions, put to the vote and determined by the way we vote. [[He's been discussed in detail almost all night.]] Infringement of the substantively formal articles of the Rules does not mean that the right of factional deputies to the legislative initiative has been revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u5	Thank you. National MP Chubarov, faction of our Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u6	National deputy of Ukraine. [[Multi-mandatory state constituency, Victor Yuschenka's "Our Ukraine"]] The faction of our Ukraine. Please give my word to my colleague Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u7	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u8	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 90, Ivano-Frankiv region]] The faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have begun to discuss this issue. To move from the question under discussion to a procedural question is not provided for in the Rules. So I would ask you not to do that for the future. It is the very essence of this question. If we are to be guided by a proportionate principle of the direction of the Supreme Council in general, including the election of the heads and the first deputies of the committee heads, this principle should have been applied also when we chose the Head, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Now for the Rules themselves. I draw your attention to article 3.2. 3 The Rules provide for the possibility of making a decision that is exceptional, other than that provided for in the article of the Rules that you have quoted. So I don't see any reason to deny it. We are making an exceptional decision on this draft decree, which is permitted by the Rules. And finally, I would also like to draw your attention to what the same decision was made when the Supreme Council of Ukraine changed the leadership and heads and the first deputies of the committee heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third call. No one then had any objection to such a decision. By the way, the Constitutional Court confirmed the legality of the decisions we made during the so-called velvet revolution. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will have no objection right now. So I don't see any reason not to start talking about this in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u9	Thank you for your offer. Please turn on the microphone of the popular deputy Kirilchuk, representative of the block of Julia Timoshenko. Next will be the national deputy of Rishnjak, representative of "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u10	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy, Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u11	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Sergio Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u12	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory state constituency, "Julia Tymoshenko constituency"]] The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to that article of the Rules that the chairman of today’s session sounded. This is article 4.4.3. The chairman read out a conclusion from some legal authority that seems to exist in us and that makes the right conclusions and says that something is not in line with the Rules. Therefore, I draw the attention of the presiding officer at the meeting and of the national deputies to Article 4.4. 3, which provides for possible deviations from the calculated quotas provided for in this article. And it's in the decision-making project that's in place that there's these deviations. In harmony with this article, article 4.4. 3 There is no need to accept candidates for headship with other factions. Thus, the draft regulation is fully in line with the Rules and can be voted by Parliament without discussing and taking into account the position of those factions that these candidates do not agree with. By the way, this was already done in 2000 at the Ukrainian House more than a hundred deputies who are once again involved in the work. So we insist that this draft decree be put to the vote immediately -- without any interruptions, without any agreement, because this draft decree, made by the four factions, is fully in line with the requirements of the current Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u13	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy of Rishnjak, the faction of "The One Ukraine". Next up, Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u14	National deputy of Ukraine. [[electoral district 162, Sumska oblast]] Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ludmila Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u15	Please turn on the microphone of Ukrainian national deputy Ludmila Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u16	National deputy of Ukraine. [[A multi-mandatory national constituency, the constituency for the One Ukraine!]] It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear National Deputies! It's very good that comments are now being made on this draft decision, but I would like, Your Honor, to pay attention to this. In fact, we can deviate from a certain order of voting on proportionality. But this requires a decision by the Conciliation Board, and it can only be assembled if two thirds of the factions are present at the meeting. There was no such meeting. Such an arrangement cannot be considered valid because it does not conform to the rules of the Rules. With regard to the findings of the legal system. For the Supreme Council, all conclusions are of a recommendational nature and only identify the point of view of specialists. The Supreme Council decides on each of these issues. And you can't call the structural unit of the Supreme Council unknown to any government. Decision-making is entirely in the hands of the Supreme Council, but decisions of the Supreme Council should be made in accordance with the Rules. So the suggestion is to convene a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and there's a normal way -- consensus, agreement -- to determine everything about the selection of committee heads and their first deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, time is up. After this presentation, we will conclude the discussion of procedural issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u18	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone of National MP Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u20	National deputy of Ukraine. [[multi-mandatory national constituency, IPU]] The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In particular, I refer to the faction "One Ukraine" or "To Jedu!"".. First of all, these findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are only a recommendation to you. Secondly, I remind you once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, of the coup that took place in the Ukrainian House, which led this coup, what was done and what you are now calling us to. Then be consistent for at least the last two years. Thirdly, I remind you that four out of six factions have expressed their point of view. If you are referring to the Conciliation Council, most members of the same Conciliation Board have made these proposals. [[whether she's going or not]] And finally. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I do not want the activities of the Supreme Council now under your leadership to resemble yesterday's motorcycles in Montenegro. Let's work so that it's really an active Supreme Council so it doesn't go the way it was yesterday in Chernig, when Ukraine was embarrassed around the world. Don't be ashamed of Ukraine again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2002-05-30-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We're done discussing the procedure. I would just like to ask the people’s deputies: If we are already calling for compliance with the Rules, we need to quote it accurately. Sergey Petrovich, I would like to quote article 4.4. 3, where it is written: "Possible deviations from the quotas are accepted by the full representatives of these parliamentary groups, which are based on their signatures in writing to the Head of the Supreme Council." [[fractions]] And then, honourable national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! There's no need to vote, we don't go to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you not to force me to violate the Rules. We need to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Perhaps the factions will agree and sign your proposals, and then they will be put into the hall for good reason. Dear National Deputies! To hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council of factions, I request that you meet on the third floor of the Bureau Hall at 12 o'clock. And now there's a break of 16 hours.
