ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I warn you that the second point is left for another. First point in theme list: "Plenty of the law of the parliamentary teams to confess the victims of Francism and to give them their complete integrated memory of historical observation. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. Since it's a side shift and the opposite, who on the side shift will participate in the Arzuagus? Jon? Someone else on the side shift? No. So, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours. Kontrako txandan part hartu behar of the Norbaitek? Eta Alderdi Popularrak, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u1	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. This time, at least we'll have a discussion about this subject. It is well known that the line of EH Collect is to burn all the victims, to observe them without categoricalation, without partiality, and to offer to all the victims the same and efficient means of execution. We received in our election program, the section of memory and of the victims, a law for historical memory as a first measure, to honor a law for historical memory. We were introduced to the elections with this commitment, and we're bringing this commitment here today along the path of this legal proposition. We've been preparing this text for a long time. One of these texts in article 45 doesn't go off overnight. It's been a long way, with memoryists, lawyers, academicians, history historians. When the first draft was ready, Podemos introduced a new initiation that demanded an imitation of the instincts of the French tribunals to be detected and detected by the victims of franchise. We thought we needed an integral law for historical memory, we thought we ought to make a project of more ambition, but yet we agreed together with the initiation that Podemos had brought with us, and so we defended ourselves from this attril. We all know that this initiative was suspended by the voice against EAJ and PP, and by the Absence of PSE. Then EAJ matized his attitude, saying that if it was only esthetically, he must appear in a favourable position. When this position appeared, we reflected that it might be a proper context to present such an initiation, to re-enforce the initiative, and present this proposal to the law, the public policy for historical memory, and the initiative which attends the action in action, and which puts on the proposition with more right. The text we propose to examine very quickly, this proposition considers international legislation and recommendations to protect the victims. He also receives the law of the State concerning the victims, and also the law of the State about the historical memory. The rest of the experiments which have been in this community in this historical memory, as well as the decrees and laws which have been placed in the ranks of the community, in order to receive the truth, the justice, the jurisdiction of the victims, the memory and observation of the victims. We see, indeed, from these decrees and laws, that the burning and observation of the victims of Fancism has always been partial. In particular times, under particular circumstances, these violences, or the subversions of human rights, were to occur in a particular context. It is also worth a special quotation to the law of the waters of rights between 12/2016, 78 and 99, because this law was a further backing and taking a period of franchise, between 60 to 78, and also to give us a glimpse and perception of the victims. It only happens that the period of their demand was exhausted on the 10th of August, and that few victims had requested to see the fact that the rapes of their rights had been admitted, perhaps not from ignorance, perhaps from the mistrust that the burden of the resource of the state had caused... The point is that this road is closed today, and we thought that not only in that period, between 60 and 78, but that we should go back until 36, give opportunity to victims to acknowledge their rights. This law, therefore, presents a new way to all the victims of Fancism, without any condition, without any limit of time, regardless of context or circumstances. We planned to open a permanent window, which would be open until the last burnt-out victim. Precisely in view of this segmented treatment that has been offered to victims of Francoism (depending on the decree or the law that protects them, at the time, of the circumstances in which they suffered the violation), this law that we call integral understood that it had to face in its entirety a process of recognition and reparation for absolutely all victims of Francoism, to any victim between 1936 and 1978, that is to say, to all crimes against humanity perpetrated during the fascist uprising, war and subsequent Franco dictatorship. The structure of this law consists of four chapters: one on the right to know the truth; one on the right to recognition and reparation; another on the establishment of a commission of truth and the establishment of the right to justice; and, lastly, the right to memory and guarantees of non-repetition. I believe that no one can stand up to the treatment of the victims of the Francoism organized in these four areas, facing us also from a broader context approach, from a broader debate, which is also being held today at the Congress in Madrid and which seeks to overcome the precepts of the Amnesty Act and which also implies the implementation of the Convention on the Non-Applicability of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity. That is the framework in which we brought this proposal. A proposal for a law that, we understood, opened the debate among all. I sincerely believed that this text enabled the start of a legislative debate. He assumed discrepancies, of course, he assumed disagreements, disagreements, he assumed that there was going to be an arduous discussion, but frankly I do not understand that the proposal that we bring from a handcuff would be withdrawn. I thought there was no reason why this initiative should not even be discussed, even on a purely aesthetic issue. But this seems to be, according to the view expressed by the Government, contrary to the consideration, with two arguments which, from my point of view, are easily rebuttable. The first argument tells us that it is not possible to undertake in Euskadi a legislative initiative related to historical memory without taking into account the rules already dictated by the Basque Parliament in this matter, notably Law 4/2014 of 27 November, establishing the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights, Gogora. Well, it seems to me that saying this is a lot to say, because we do take this law into consideration, we take it into account, and, indeed, we give Gogora broader functions to carry out its task, specifically in the field of research. Because it fits into article 4.3.c, which talks about the functions that Gogora has, and specifically expresses the research function: "Promoting research and collaborating with institutions, specialized entities and reflection forums, so the necessary documentation infrastructures will be created for the collection of information and truthful data, through research and study work". This is what we are asking to be done through this law: that Gogora investigate, that it establish the necessary documentation infrastructures, that it collect information, that it collect true data, so that, on the report that Gogora can make, then a truth commission can issue an opinion that ultimately becomes an administrative decision that gives victims recognition and reparation. Therefore, we are not only within the parameters of this law of creation of Gogora, but we also understand that with this law what we did was to give depth, to develop those capacities that Gogora has. The second argument before us is that this initiative cannot be undertaken without knowing the intense work carried out in recent years by the Basque Government and the rest of the public institutions of the Autonomous Community, in all (and I stress all) the areas of action to which the proposal for a law refers. In other words, this law does not know in all its areas of action the initiatives that have been implemented. And to me it seems profoundly unfair to say this, because I know the work carried out by the institutions, by the Basque Government and other public institutions, because I usually participate in them. And I may be reproached for many things, but it is not ignorance, because I not only know what is being done, but in many cases I also recognize it. I may also be criticized for being critical of any of these initiatives, but I understand that activities are being undertaken. What happens is that these activities that are being carried out today depend on the goodwill of the designer, I understand that they are a discretionary work that may be carried out today, because there is an interest in doing so, but if tomorrow changes the will or changes the interest may vary and, therefore, they may stop developing. And that is why we understood that the priority was that those measures that are now being implemented had legal support, had legal accommodation, had a lace, had a guarantee, had support and an imperative that only the law could provide. And those two are the arguments, and with those two arguments the whole legislative debate is being pushed back. An argument seems and, from my point of view, unconsistent. We will have debate and I will hear with great interest how these arguments explain to me, for which I am supposed to skip not only the rules, but also the practice. And it is precisely the opposite: it is to adjust to the norm and to deepen the practices. My proposal will not prosper, but it does seem that they will pose a counterproposal, which could be expressed as follows: "We reject yours, Mr Arzuaga, but well, we will bring another." It seems strange to me that you have never shown such an interest in the election, or in your election program, or in your court of government, or in the legislative calendar which you have or have appeared. You have now created the need or need to make such a law. But to-day you will reject the second bill of law, which has been proposed for two months. And maybe because you have to do something, because it's very ugly to throw back such a proposition and not bring in a counter-proposing proposition, that's why you're asking for a report, and maybe a law, I don't know, bringing a bill in the form of a law proposal. And it looks like what you want to do with it is to take over. But it's not just protagonism. I think you feel that this law is ambitious, and you don't want to argue over this ambitious text, but you want to empty it, and you'll bring a proposition which will not be ambitious, and maybe we'll come to a law, but you want to build it on another basis, which is not ambition. I think it's very serious that you'll back off with the support of both parties and of PP, and that you'll throw back a simple proposition to examine a law which is worth the victims of Fankism. Number two, as I say, in a few months. I'm sorry, I can't say anything else, that's the feeling he has, and I think it must be still bigger the disappointment that the victims of franchise must feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Hernandez, the representative of the Podemos has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u3	Yes, thank you. Our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos, will support the initiative, the proposal for a law of historical memory for the recognition and comprehensive reparation of the victims of the Francoism brought today by the EH Bildu group, because we believe that it is necessary to have more complete and comprehensive legislation than currently exists on a matter that is so sensitive. And, therefore, it seemed to us that it was appropriate to process this law, and that it is relevant for our group to support it to be processed. In fact, my group was also working to present a proposal for a democratic memory law since the day when this House, regrettably, rejected – as has already been said by Mr Arzuaga – with the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party and with the abstention of the Socialist Party, that proposal for a law of legal redress for the victims of the dictatorship that my group brought to the House. Our group, of course, does not care which parliamentary group is presenting the bill. The important thing for us is that the bill is here and is an opportunity to start the process and work on a law that we consider necessary. It is necessary, in our view, to legislate in the matter of historical memory, because we live in a country which suffered a bloody armed uprising against democratic legality, which triggered a terrible war and which finally instituted an illegitimate dictatorship for forty years. A dictatorship that did not have an abrupt end, a dictatorship that was never defeated, but came to an end with a pragmatic pact among the political actors, pushed, that is, by the struggle of the people for the freedoms on the street, which, while allowing a new constitutional regime of greater freedoms, also entailed a certain scenario of silence and, above all, a lack of will to apply a democratic historical memory that really allows to close the famous wounds of which so much is spoken. Four decades after the end of the dictatorship, it has not been possible to close the wounds caused by war and dictatorship, among other things because the laws of the new system (the parliamentary monarchy of 78) have not been sufficient or most convenient to ensure in their entirety the principles of truth, memory, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. These principles are absolutely necessary to close those wounds which are so much talked about and which seem to bother some sectors of the franchise heirs, sometimes; principles which are endorsed by the international community and which also have broad support in our society. The steps taken so far, both in the area of competence of the State and in the area of our autonomous community, have not been sufficient, because today we still do not have the necessary instruments to develop a democratic memory on the basis of these principles of truth, memory, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. Therefore, we believe that it is opportune to promote an integral law of historical memory in Euskadi. This is something we had very clearly from our parliamentary group, and we believe that they also have very clearly the associations that are dedicated to historical memory. And that is why we are going to give our support to this bill, which, in our opinion, should have the support of all groups in this House in order to then improve and adapt it among all, and also counting on memorialist associations and different professionals. The bill that Mr. Arzuaga brings, without a doubt..., and I'm sure you've done an excellent job, but without a doubt, like all things, will be better, and sure you lack things, sure. But today we do not approve or reject the content of the law, but we are going to approve or refuse to process the proposed law, so the question, in our opinion, is whether we believe it is necessary to promote an integral law of historical memory or whether we believe it is not necessary to promote a law of historical memory. That is what is actually being debated here today. If today we vote in favour – as, of course, my parliamentary group is going to do, and as we believe that at least the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi should do – we would start a work process to draw up a law of historical memory of Euskadi. And we could do so with the participation of the different actors, especially the memorialist associations, but also with the participation of all the groups in this House, because all the groups in this House have the legitimacy to do so. If we vote against today, instead, we will lose an opportunity to start this work and, therefore, we will only delay something that we will sooner or later do. Because sooner or later this Parliament is going to pass an integral law of historical memory, and that is something you know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. The sooner we start, the better. It doesn't matter who brings the initiative. As when we brought our proposal for a law on legal redress to the victims of the dictatorship, the Basque Government has decided to issue an unfavourable report. This time, they had to change their arguments, because those used on the previous occasion were totally discredited by inconsistencies in the course of that debate. To support the lack of competence, before a proposal identical to those approved by other autonomous communities with similar competence and without any challenge by any political actor or court, was a pointless argument, an argument that was not even shared by a part of the parties that support the Government. But this time, although the Government has had to change its arguments, it has not, in our view, presented arguments that are well founded to justify its rejection of this bill. This makes our group reflect on the real reasons why this Government systematically rejects the legislative initiatives of the left opposition, especially with such a sensitive issue as the democratic memory of our country. A question where we certainly have no major differences at the bottom of the contents, at least between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, the EH Bildu group and the parties of my coalition. That's why we don't understand it very well. The Government, as explained above, uses two arguments in its approach to reject this bill. The first, in our view, is absolutely subjective in pointing out that the proposal does not take into account the rules already laid down in this area in the Basque Parliament. Not to list the totality of the approved rules, in addition to being remediable in the procedure of the law, is not synonymous with not taking them into account when drafting the proposal. We are therefore faced with a mere excuse to justify the Government's rejection. And the second argument used by the Government in its unfavourable view is, in our view, an absolute disregard for the role that parliamentary groups have in our legislative drive. The Government believes that the Gogora Memorial Institute should be entrusted with the preparation of a report to determine whether a memory law is necessary or not. Well, the need to entrust the Gogora Institute with this report is a respectable opinion, but it is not a compelling argument for the government to issue a criterion that is contrary to the fact that this Parliament is through a legislative initiative brought by a group in this House. We sincerely believe that, once again, the Government has sought excuses to issue an unfavorable opinion in the face of an initiative on historical memory brought by an opposition group, surely in order to enable the groups of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to vote against it. Because it is really difficult, and you know it, for any minimally democratic group, to vote against a legislative initiative aimed at us being able to develop a historical memory law in a country like ours. And forgive me for insisting, but I think we must insist: we are not voting on a law; we are voting to start the process of drafting a law on the basis of the proposal put forward. And that is why it seems to us that we have plenty of reason to reproach – and I blame the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party – that they are not having the necessary sensitivity on a subject like this, preventing the consideration of an initiative that can allow us all to work on the elaboration of a necessary historical memory law that will then give rise to the broadest possible agreements. It is the second time in this legislature that Basque Nationalist Party and Basque Socialist Party prevent the processing of a bill related to the historical memory presented by some opposition group. There's always some excuse to reject them. I guess it's very ugly to reject them because yes, or they're just not going to admit that they're being rejected for the simple fact that they're being brought in by opposition groups. In the legislative programme – it has also been said – presented by the Government for this legislature there is no trace of historical memory. It is therefore not among the plans of the Government for this legislature to promote legislation in relation to historical memory. It's okay. Although we regret it, we are not going to criticize it today, because the Government is not the only actor with the capacity to push legislation. And, therefore, what we want to do today is to highlight that we have a legislative chamber, a Basque parliament, where popular sovereignty supposedly resides and where there are groups that have the capacity to push legislation, in this case on historical memory. What we believe to be entrepreneurial is not that the parties of the Government have not raised within them the need to promote a law of historical memory, but that when opposition groups do, you reject their mere processing. It seems to us to be impractical for you to do this on such a sensitive subject as a democratic memory in a country that, as I said at first, comes from a fascist military coup and forty years of brutal and terrorist dictatorship, and that we have not yet done all the things we have to do. I think they are going to make a new mistake today, a second mistake, like the one they made the day I defended in this rostrum our proposal for legal redress for the victims of the dictatorship. The Government's excuse that day was the excess of jurisdiction and the supposed impossibility of an autonomous law declaring the illegitimacy and illegality of Francoist convictions and courts. Today, the arguments put forward by the Government do not say anything about this matter, when the proposal we are discussing today also includes the declaration of illegality and illegitimacy of these coup convictions and courts. I hope that it is not that they did not take the trouble to read the proposal and not to arrive at its article 31, because they had already determined beforehand that they were going to reject it. I hope that's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, in our view, it is timely and necessary in this country to draw up an autonomous comprehensive law of historical memory, of democratic memory. It is not a question, and of course we do not intend with our vote today to reject what has been achieved so far at all. In fact, we have something to do with what has been achieved so far also those like me who are militants in the United Left. It is, however, a question of establishing a comprehensive law for the issue on the basis of what already exists, what has already been achieved. It's about working among all that historic memory law we need. I ask you not to make the mistake you have already made by rejecting the proposal I brought to this House a few months ago. Some of you recognized a posteriori "Izan zirelako race, garelako izango dira." This is the phrase that a veteran Urnieta comrade taught me on the day when, many years ago, I joined the Communist Party. It is a very important phrase that we have to fill with content. I believe that today we had the opportunity to start the process so that within a time we could have an integral law of historical memory. I am convinced that this Parliament will sooner or later adopt an integral law of historical memory. I ask you not to make political tacticisms, to vote in favour, and to work among all of us to reach the greatest possible agreement for an integral law of historical memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. On the other hand, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that it is not easy (to the contrary, it is difficult) to intervene in the turn against, and also to carry out the subsequent vote in the same direction with regard to the consideration. Because we're talking about taking into consideration a law on historical memory. I say this because we do consider it necessary, we believe that a Basque law of historical memory, of democratic memory is possible. A law that honors the principles of justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, that honors those who strived to build the democratic regime of the Second Republic, those who suffered the Civil War, those who stood before the Franco dictatorship to regain democracy. But the reason for the Socialist Group's position in this consideration is precisely the will that this law exists, and that it is done from the broadest consensus and agreement of the Basque political forces and traditions, but above all, that, as Mr Arzuaga's proposed law says today, it is Basque. That is, to take into account the political action carried out by the Basque institutions in the development, recovery and recognition of the historical memory and of the victims of Francoism. In this sense, I must say and acknowledge that Basque institutions have not remained impassive in relation to public policies of historical memory; they have not looked, as elsewhere in Spain, elsewhere at the magnitude of the repression carried out during the Civil War and by Francoism in our land. Actions, decrees, programmes and plans have been formulated and developed in the Basque Government, in the Basque Parliament, in the outside institutions and in the local ones, always. Some of the actions carried out have already been cited, from Decree 107/2012 to the Law of 2016, through the creation of Gogora in 2014 and other actions. In all these actions of democratic public memory the Socialist Party has been; in some, such as the Memory Law of 2007, promoted by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, in the decree because it was signed by Idoia Mendia, then Councillor of Justice with the government of Patxi López. But also when we have ceased to be in the Government (both sides) we have supported those public policies in memory. We did it in 2014 and we did it in 2016, already being the lehendakari Urkullu. That is why I want to say that the Socialist Party is clear that a law of Basque historical memory is necessary, as there are also reasons for it to be in Andalusia, as there are reasons for it to be in Valencia already, as there are reasons for it to be in Catalonia already, as there is going to be in Extremadura, or in Castilla-La Mancha, and there is already –which I have forgotten before – in Balearic Islands. Mr Arzuaga, regardless of the position we maintain today in plenary, I reiterate the socialist commitment to a Basque law of historical memory, not only with the rigorous analysis of the public policies that have been carried out so far, but also – I believe that has been mentioned by Mr Hernández – from listening to the trade union, social, memorialist organizations, which can do us an impressive job to address in a much more participatory way this joint proposal for a comprehensive law of Basque historical memory. That is why we have tabled a non-legislative proposal with the Basque Nationalist Party to address these considerations: that there should be a report by Gogora – already mentioned – on those public policies carried out by the institutions since the 1980s, and while that report is being carried out we can start that program, those plans in Parliament to listen to social and memorialist entities. I could, but I'm not going to get into the contents of your proposal. You know that we do not agree with what you do, we do not share it, among other reasons because – I will tell you this – part of the provisions that we understand to exceed the Basque jurisdiction, and would have, if it were so approved, a fairly complex life in the courts by challenging the institutions of the State. But with the principles and some of the proposed actions we do agree, because they are included in the bill to reform the Historical Memory Act presented by the Socialist Party just two months ago in the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, we are talking about the consideration. We are serious people, political leaders, and we are faced with an issue that involves us all. We are talking at this time about whether or not we are taking this into consideration. We are not talking about the content, and Mr Hernández also told us, as we were not at best either before, when we were talking about the proposal brought here by Podemos. But we are faced with the need to address a country issue with the utmost consensus and support. We are talking, Mr Arzuaga, not so much about how, but about what. To be able to direct this proposal of Basque law in memory, which is finally achieved regardless of whether the avatars before the realization and the realization of that law are one or the other. I too share, Mr Hernández, that there will be Basque law of historical memory. I share it, too. It is true that in the middle we will meet with enough discussions, some insurmountable and others salvable, but I am convinced of it. I do not believe that the Basque Government wanted to facilitate the agreements, the vote or the position of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party on this matter. No, no, I do not think that he had that intention, because there are also differences in this matter between the two partners of government, and they are faced in such a way that consensus reinforces the proposals that we are presenting. But I do not honestly believe that the Government has come to save us. The two parties had a different position – it was seen in the previous vote – and we have found a way to channel the differences, and so we present them in that non-law proposal. Do not doubt, therefore, that we will comply. The Socialist Party will comply, as it fulfilled (very late for the victims of Francoism) in 2007, as we have now fulfilled in 2017 presenting the reform of that law, as we have complied with the decrees that have been mentioned in the Basque Country, as we have complied in Andalusia, in Baleares, in Catalonia, in Valencia, as we will comply in Extremadura and we will also comply in Castile-La Mancha. Not only, along with the memorialist associations, who – I will agree with Mr Hernández – have kept the flame lit by those victims, when others continued to look slowly elsewhere or did not act with the speed and due diligence. With all of them we have fulfilled in all those places that I have said, and of course the Basque Country, in which the commitment of socialists to fundamental rights and their protection we will do no less. We will continue to do so when we reach that consensus. Democracy is not built as long as we have corpses in mass graves, graveyards, ditches and forgotten places in Spain. Democracy is not built by keeping the victims buried, without name, honor, recognition or memory. There is no democracy about the silence of the victims and without their memory (always, not just in one; in all). There is no democracy without memory. Therefore, I will end up inviting all political forces, in the next debate that we will have on Thursday of that non-law proposal that we are going to discuss, to accompany us in this new historical memory that is supported by a new discourse and a different truth, a story that extends to the whole of society, in order to abandon the traditional approaches of "we were all guilty" or those of clear revisionist bias, on the need for equidistance and shared responsibility, nothing or little rigorous with the genesis and causes of the Civil War. We do not want any more historical memory without memory, I have said, and that memory is once and for all centered on the destruction and annihilation by the Francoism of democracy and of all democrats. We want that Basque law, such as the one we have also presented in the Congress of Deputies, so that the memory is definitively removed from the theories that identify the Second Republic as the cause of the Civil War, among other things because they forget the obvious: that this was the result of a coup carried out by soldiers raised against the legitimate government. And especially because they go over the indisputable fact that the main goal of the coup was to end the liberal, democratic and radical tradition that had been embodied in broad sectors of Spanish society during the last decades of the 19th and first third centuries of the 20th century. It was to put an end to the Republic and, with that, to its programme of reforms, to its democratic culture. This planned annihilation goal was the one that accompanied the coup in front of the Second Republic. Let us anchor that historical memory in a new discourse involving democratic values, such as all memories, civic virtues, human rights, coexistence and dialogue, contributing to the prevention of violence, the promotion of peace and the strengthening of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u7	Mrs. President, Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. We've been working in the sphere of historical memory for a long time. First steps, 80. and in the '90s' the first legislators set foot in action 35 years ago. From the very beginning the Esscal institutions took the responsibility of the historical memory. After these first few steps, from 2000, these public policies had a new and progressive impulse, especially in the field of confession of the victims of Fancism, and in the light of the past. Euskadi society has become a pioneer in the whole state, starting a plan to localize pits, and draw bodies out of their graves. This plan remains at the present day in force, and is a matter for the rest of the community. The Eucharins, together with this, have set up a number of enterprises and projects in order to make confession and satisfaction to victims. In this end also we have been pioneers in several enterprises: the payment, the withdrawal of the emblems of the franchise, the establishment of the facts, the memory site, or the organization of the performances of redemption. Together with the teams, we've taken a strong step in this legislature during the last decades. Thus several legislators have been encouraged and admitted by the object of obtaining truth, justice, and recompense. For instance, in 2012, the RedMork agreed to 107/2012 Decree. Thanks to this decree, the Euskal People between 1960 and 1978, are acknowledged to be the victims of the abuses of political motives, caused by the violence of human rights, and the methods of paying them are regulated. Following the Decree, in July 2016, the legislature accepted the 12/2016 law. By this law the victims and the victims between 1978 and 1999 are received notice. It is a pity that the Spanish Government introduced an appeal against this law in the Constitution of the Court, and therefore there are some articles which are detained at the present moment until the trial was decided by the Court. In November 2014, to give consistency and impulse to all these functions, the Parliament agreed to the law of 4/2014. This led to the recollection of memory, of life, and of human rights. This law, no doubt, may be regarded as a law of euscal for historical memory, united within itself, co-ordinated, and encouraged by public euphoric policies about this subject. From his creation, the Memories have formed an integrated activity program in the field of historical memory. This work has been accomplished with great agreement, both between the institutions and the political parties, and among the social motives. It is the right of memory, which answers to the critical review of the events of our history, which have violated human rights. We've been working on a lot of enterprises and projects to make up for that right for a long time. In fact, we created the Institute to encourage and unite it. This country is committed to the recovery of historical memory and has demonstrated it with facts since the early 1980s and 1990s, and with growing activity to this day. Historical memory is a basic instrument of democratic pedagogy and guarantees of non-repetition, and Euskadi has been a pioneer and reference in the implementation of public policies of memory, policies that respond to the rights of truth, justice and reparation recognized by all victims of human rights violations. This Parliament has been a pioneer in the adoption of policy initiatives to promote, regulate and bring coherence to these public memory policies. We therefore have a long way to go; we have therefore been walking for a long time, and we share, I believe, an unequivocal desire to continue moving forward, and also to analyse what has been achieved and evaluate the instruments in progress, with the aim of giving a new impetus to the policies of memory in the Basque Country. The proposed law proposed today by Euskal Herria Bildu, however, does not pursue this shared and positive objective; it does not arise to recognize the path taken, evaluate it and continue to consensual constructive measures of the future. No, that's not his intention. The pretence of Euskal Herria Bildu is another. Euskal Herria Bildu's claim is to confront, disunite and compete with other political groups, especially with some, around historical memory, when it is precisely up to us to reconcile, consensus and unite. Our group is in favour of continuing to work for historical memory with rigour and responsibility, from consensus, step by step, with realism, guaranteeing firm and effective steps, and we are not going to support interested scenes and sterile confrontations like those proposed to us by Euskal Herria Bildu. That is why, without any shame, we are going to vote against the consideration of this bill. You must know and acknowledge that this Parliament has worked hard, and for a long time, on this matter, and it is not acceptable that you now want to act as if we had not done anything so far. You must know that from this Parliament we have promoted many pioneering initiatives and programmes. You must know that this Parliament has done a great deal of legislative work. You must know that we do not start from scratch, and that this country is a reference in historical memory. A reference, on the other hand, with enough nuts and less noise. Our commitment to memory recovery and victims' rights is consistent, consistent, inclusive, legally viable, functional, mature, responsible and effective, which are precisely the shortcomings we see in this project. Because Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative is, first of all, inconsistent. Euskal Herria Bildu ignores its own regulatory framework, namely Law 4/2012, establishing the Gogora Institute. This law is, de facto, The initiative is indispensable, because the contents of Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal seek to regulate lines of action that are already consolidated, today, through Gogora. It is essential because, in fact, these actions are already taking place in a viable and standardised way, and you know them. Not less than sixteen of the articles – which we have read, Mr Hernández – sixteen of the proposed articles seek to legislate on actions that are already consolidated and in progress. Three, the proposal is discriminatory. Euskal Herria Bildu makes distinctions in the treatment of victims killed between 1936 and 1959 and those killed between 1960 and 1978. The difference in compensation is very relevant, and is not justified in the text. Four, the proposal is legally inviolable. Yes, Mr Hernández, we have reached 31 and 45 and the final single provision, and it is not legally feasible. EH Bildu ignores the experience of Decree 107/2012 and Law 12/2016, and poses duplication and discrimination between victims, and these dysfunctions lead to the unfeasibility of the proposition, both in the field of legality and in its management. The proposal is dysfunctional. Euskal Herria Bildu ignores the state law of Historical Memory, which again translates into dysfunctions and duplications. Paradoxically, it seems like Euskal Herria Bildu claims that we supplant, that it would be equivalent to saying that we relieve or exaggerate the State from taking on its responsibilities and that it must take on its own, because it depends on it and its legislation. The proposition is immature. Euskal Herria Bildu's proposition ignores reality. You are abstract from reality, and write a list of wishes a la carte, and some manifestly inviable. This proposal is pure rhetoric, pure declaration of intentions that leads to no practical action. It's not like we're looking for a more or less ambitious law. We are looking for a viable law that does not make a toast to the sun, because this proposal is irresponsible. The real result is to generate expectations knowing that they are not going to be met, a very serious attitude when we talk about historical memory. Because we are talking about victims, among those who create false expectations, with the consequent process of revictimization. And finally this initiative, Mr Arzuaga, is pure propaganda, pure propaganda empty of content. Euskal Herria Bildu's ultimate intention is propaganda. To date, policies of memory and coexistence have always been the subject of a special effort of consensus and agreement among political groups. There is a specific presentation precisely with the intention of preserving these themes from the partisan referendum and in order to work out the consensus in an effective way. To date, we have made steady progress with no fissures, with more consensus and less propaganda. You have made your initiative known at a press conference (propaganda); you have not shared it with any of the other political groups (propaganda); you have not dialogued with anyone in this Parliament, and outside this it seems that with some associations and professionals, I suppose they will be from your orbit, because with others not (propaganda). Do not wait, therefore, for us to back up your propaganda campaigns. We're not here for that. This Parliament also has a long history in memory policies. Thanks to the work of this Parliament, our country has a regulatory framework that has been a pioneer and is a recognized reference. This Parliament has a specific forum to address a shared and paused reflection on the future of public memory policies, and we are ready to discuss them with you, to analyse the needs, potentialities, shortcomings and instruments we have. We are prepared to address this issue rigorously, to make a serious diagnosis, to discuss and agree on new decisions, including those of a normative or legislative nature. It is not, therefore, a question of rejecting yours to bring us another; it is a question of providing us with a good instrument, and it is also a result of consensus and dialogue. We are not willing to address this matter so relevant from a press room, with precipitation and improvisation, with a propagandistic and interested attitude. Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal is inconsistent, indispensible, discriminatory, legally inviable, dysfunctional, immature and irresponsible. In short, pure propaganda. We are not prepared to support this proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, because it does not have the minimum requirements for this legislative forum. We are not voting, Mr Hernández, whether or not an integral law of historical memory is needed. We are voting if this is the basis for an integral law of historical memory. And our answer is "no," for the eight reasons I've given you. Memory and co-operation are important matters in our society. We have hitherto been pioneers to defend and guarantee the rights of military rebellion in 1936, and of the succession dictatorship. We make a strong and honest commitment to go on that road. So far we've been trying to track the interview and get the vote. Even in the future, this is our will and commitment, with all the groups they want, even with you, with all the groups that are ready, even with you. This conversation and agreement, which are the greatest guarantees to continue the progress of history. We've always been ready for it, you know, and we'll be ready, and that's why we'll give you our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u9	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mrs. Romero, I think it's very inconsistent with your position. You say: "There's a borondate, there's a commitment from the Social Party, but we'll vote against it." I feel sorry for him, because I don't understand that there's a law to vote against a real proposition. I had better understand that before the proposal, you had the attitude of abstaining, but I think that PNV has now made you move to that position of opposition. Mr. Iturate tells me, a number of plans, various actions, a disorganization plan, a process of abolishing the symbolization of franchise, commemortions for confession... that so many things have been done, and are neglected. But next, it is said that there are 16 of them in the text. So, what's the matter? That we ignore them or receive them in the text? We receive in the text the legal protection, legal protection, regulating importance, the planning that they are now doing, because they are volunteers, because you want to do it now, and you have to go to your planet to know them. And what I say, and what I say in this text, is, that they must appeal to the law to do it, not to know what plans are existing, but what legal prerogatives are to make their rights, to make their confessions, to make their revolt possible. You say several things have been done in this legislature, and I want to bring you one, which may be the old measure of this proposal, and it is a committee of the truth. In 2008, another proposition was approved, with your vote, by the swing of the tripartite, saying: "The American lawyer asks the state government for two commissions of truth, to create two commissions of truth, to shoot, to disappear, to the family associations of the companies, to crack, to crack... "I don't know. Bi. What is this, relieving the State's responsibilities? One that is done by the Government, another that is done by the Basque Government, what is it, to relieve the responsibilities of the State? That it's a statement of intent? That it's irresponsible? What's a toast to the sun? Why didn't the Basque Government do it? Cito, the legislature ended in 2008, another government came, and then why should not this engagement be fulfilled? Why don't you put this in motion? Is it propaganda to make a proposal, a proposal for a law? Here the theme – and I think I'm going to hit the nail – is that the PNV understands that doing something that at the time doesn't work for you, that somehow bothers you, is the goal of EH Bildu. And the aggravation that you seem to feel, well, is that we do some things precisely with the will to annoy you. But that's not our cause, eh! Our cause is not to bother the PNV with our initiatives. Our cause in this particular case is to seek the recognition and reparation of the victims. And in any case, if someone had to feel aggrieved, it would have to be us, that out of a handshake and without arguments, without arguments, we are being pushed back by an initiative that I believe is necessary. They're requesting a report. Well, if it's the case, Gogora has already made a report on human rights violations during the civil war! And in February 2016 we adopted an agreement to request another report on human rights violations throughout the franchise, which already has to be culminating, because it had two years to submit. Casuistic that is known, because I have also seen drafts, and on which this law is also based. We know the case, we know the initiatives, the plans, the projects, and now we provide them with legal guarantees. You are talking about the possibility of bringing a law, not by means of a bill or by means of a proposal for a law, but it gives me the feeling that it is an absolutely cheating and dangerous attitude. Trampous, because it forces us to give the debate on new bases, which are going to be more prone to their position, and that I do have the feeling that they are going to come without any ambition, as unwashed as possible, down... And it is dangerous, because it calls into question our ability, as parliamentary groups, to bring legislative initiatives to this House, on that accusation that we use it to make propaganda. The conclusion I draw from all this is that, again, the contrary position of the Basque Government to process a law of historical memory is going to be an unbeatable news for the People's Party. And on the other hand..., on the other hand, it is a slap, perhaps in the face of EH Bildu, to all the victims, who had an expectation that, with this or with another law, they would be recognized and repaired all their rights. EH Collect hasn't got a...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u10	Finish it, please, Mr. Arzuaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u11	I'm done. ...he will not allow excuses, technicalism, or obstacles to follow his action, and, after all, to extend his ways to memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Hernandez, the representative of the Podemos has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u13	We were not judging or criticizing or appreciating what has been done so far by the different Basque governments, and I think that has become clear in the speeches of those who are going to vote in favour of this bill being dealt with. And I think it has also become clear that it reflects, takes into account what has been achieved so far. And, of course, I would not agree with a law of integral historical memory that did not take into account what has been achieved so far, among other things because, as I have said before, I belong in my coalition to a party that has also been in this Parliament and in previous Basque governments doing actions in this area. But we do believe, Mr Iturrate, that in some way today we are saying whether we want an integral historical memory law or not. And if it isn't, and if you say it isn't, then it's that we all agree – I don't know the opinion of the People's Party –... then it's that we agree at least those four groups in which we need, Euskadi needs an integral law of historical memory. Is this so? I ask, is that so? Do we agree? The content of the bill, of course, and I have already said it before, is sure to be better, and there are things on which we do not agree, but what we wanted to highlight today is that it was an opportunity to start the way, as the government program says nothing about presenting a legislative initiative of historical memory law. And, therefore, when the government in a very legitimate way does not include it among its government program, the parliamentary opposition groups, democratic groups that are in this House because they have voted for them, have the right to present legislative initiatives. And I don't know if there are any elements of propaganda in the presentation of this bill. I am sure there are elements of propaganda every time any group brings an initiative to this House, of course. And it also seems to me absolutely legitimate, because propaganda is the political dissemination of the initiatives that groups and parties defend and present. I do not see it as something negative, it seems to me something positive, because propaganda we all do, in the good sense of the word propaganda I've seen too many times on the teleberri Our group is going to vote in favour of it. I am not going to go into the content of that bill, because there are indeed things that would change, there are things that I would introduce, etc., and the issues of the legal limit, as in the previous debate that we also had when we brought in the legal remedy, are issues that can also be resolved later in the process of drafting the law. And there are also issues that, if we have the will to carry them forward in a law, be others who come and take out the scissors. If we believe that a matter is fair and should be included in a law, I believe that it must also be defended. It is also part of the democratic system that a legislature adopts laws, and if the judiciary considers that they do not conform to what can be done, then it will tell us, but we do not self-censor ourselves. Our group is going to vote in favour of this bill because we thought it was a good opportunity to start working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u15	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Let's split it up. To clarify what the position of the Socialist Party is, because that may not be on the government's agenda; then, I will tell Mr Hernández what the Socialist Party's bet is on this matter. Without prejudice to the fact that, as I said in the first intervention, in order for us to obtain a law of Basque memory we also have to give in to certain aspects, in order to obtain that integral Basque law of memory. That is the position of Fernando Martínez, Secretary of Historical Memory of the Federal Executive Commission of the PSOE, which establishes the commitment of the Socialist Party to the reform of the State Memory Law and to the development and adoption of autonomous laws of historical memory. Here it is, this is the position of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Socialist Party in Euskadi. And, therefore, that position, taken further by Secretary General Pedro Sánchez, is what I am going to try to get out with as much agreement and consensus as possible in this House. I don't care as much how if I get what, if I get that law of memory. And, therefore, I believe that in order to get out we must also agree on how all the political traditions of this country. I know what you've worked, and your party, and many of us here, in this matter, and I know who hasn't worked either. But the will of the Socialist Party I want to make clear. I insist, this is a consideration; I am not going to talk about the content of EH Bildu's proposal, I said earlier. I do not share it, because it goes beyond competition. We have proposed that in the law we introduced in the Congress of Deputies! My proposal, the Socialist Party's proposal, which will obviously have to be agreed and debated with what all the political forces in this House think, is very much like that which we approved with Podemos and with the United Left in the Parliament of Andalusia. That is the proposal we want to move forward and defend, on the basis of what has already been done and what has been done, which is very much done, in the Basque institutions. The debate will take place in a week's time on this proposal, Mr Hernández, Mr Arzuaga. If there is that political will to what instead of how, or to prioritize what above how, although it also matters, I hope we find ourselves in that non-law proposal. And if we do not find ourselves, then the Socialist Party will continue to insist within the Basque Government that this Gogora report be made, approved or not, and that we start listening to the memorialist associations during that time in the Commission on Human Rights, and that we move forward with that comprehensive Basque law of historical memory that we and we consider necessary and correct. Not with the contents, which we are not discussing today, of EH Bildu's proposal, but with the contents that we all agree on. Because the only most valid and effective path for the victims, also those of Francoism, is one that is done with the greatest consensus and with the easiest path. We're all clear about that. I repeat, this is also a matter of country, as are the ones we discussed in the memorandum. There are different things about historical memory and what we are working on, indeed, as Mr Iturrate has said, with more discretion than propaganda (sometimes, not always), in the paper. But, although they are different things, they are both country issues and I believe that most of this House share them. That's why I prioritized what. I hope to find the majority political forces in that what next week, and of course once the Gogora report is made in eight months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Iturate, Eurate patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u17	Mrs. President. Mr Arzuaga said, he insisted on his fear that we could bring a proposal down, or a proposal for a law down, and that they would not be willing or that they would not want to go through. Look, what we are not willing to do is to make a law that is a toast to the sun, a pure voluntarism, a law that is creating false expectations for the victims and that will re-victimize them. In chapter IV, the right to justice, article 29, the object, does not regulate anything at all, is a mere declaration of the right to justice of the victims of Francoism, which we have no competence to provide. Article 31, the declaration of nullity of franchising judgments, we said in the previous debate and repeated it: we are not competent. And there is also a legislative initiative in the Congress of Deputies, and they know it. And yet you include it in this proposal for a law, I believe that by calling on the Government of the State to appeal to the Constitutional Court, because you are at ease in that referendum, in that game. And we don't. We intend to give legal certainty to this issue. Article 21, right of restitution: merely declaratory, without establishing areas, procedures or exercise of the right. From Chapter V, a catalogue between wishes and action plan would be the responsibility of an administration. Article 34, Confiscations: "The current owner of the confiscated property shall return the confiscated property to the original owner". And how? With what coercive capacity? With what ability to impose? Article 39, symbolology, withdrawal "as soon as possible". What is "as soon as possible" in the legal field? What security is that? "As soon as possible," says the law. Article 44, guarantee of non-repetition. It provides for legislative and administrative measures in the Basque Parliament to prevent, inter alia, incommunicado detention and solitary confinement in the prison system. With a law from the Basque Parliament, Mr. Arzuaga? You are, first, creating false expectations, and second, calling on the State, which does not want to face its responsibility in the matter of historical memory, to try again to prevent others from doing so in a feasible way, in a viable way. This is giving a slap to the victims, Mr. Arzuaga. In the face of I don't know who, but it's slapping. We cannot amend either the Amnesty Act or the Criminal Procedure Act, or the Criminal Code, through a law of the Basque Parliament, and you know it, because you are a fine lawyer. We don't mind discussing historical memory. It bothers us to debate..., it bothers us that this proposal, which is a bad proposal, which presents itself badly presented and which presents itself without consulting any parliamentary group, is processed and can become law, because it is a guarantee that it will be a failure. Porque guesses, you know how to behave in these cases. You know Mr. Azuga, and you've been doing it for years, getting better. You know how it's done, when you want to make a proposition for it, when you want to make a correction. Before you show up, can we get out of here? Shall we play from there? You know why you didn't do it here? Why did we find out through the press? And in an initiative about a concrete prisoner, time, time, time, you call it, and we talk about where to go, and how to combine it. Not in this case. What's the purpose? To make a real law? Do you mind if I give you a real attention or do you think I'm just propaganda? Law 12/2016 of 16 July, more than six months before the Basque Government presented the bill to the Basque Parliament, had been handed over to them the first draft, and during those more than six months it was talked to you and the rest of the groups on more occasions. You knew the draft, you could make allegations. When the Government submits a bill, it is known by the associations, it is known by the citizens, there is a period of allegations, there is a process of complaints, there is a debate. No, there's nothing here. Here's a tragala tragala You also..., it is so obvious that you did not want or discuss the joint debate on today's bill and next week's non-law proposal, because you do not want to reach an agreement on this issue. We'll probably come later, because we're going to pawn, and I'm sure you're going to pawn, and we're going to pawn, and the Socialist Party's going to pawn. And we'll probably get there, but on this occasion you didn't want to reach an agreement. You've wanted to do an act of propaganda. And it seems very good to me, it's very legitimate, it's very legitimate propaganda, but everyone organizes their own and pays it out of their pocket, and we don't mess with it. We are not here to pay for the propaganda campaigns of Euskal Herria Bildu or of the left abertzale. We are not for that, and that is why we are going to vote against this bill, very calm, very conscious, and knowing what we do, and not to disappoint the expectations of the victims of Francoism, and because we are committed to the true historical memory in this country. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The discussion is over and we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u19	So the bill was ignored. Next, vote. Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u20	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in relation to this consideration and the votes, we have to say that my group will always be open to the recognition of rights, to the compensation of the injured, but always with possible solutions, with feasible solutions. That is why we voted against the proposal for a law put forward by Mr Arzuaga. That has become very clear to us, for three reasons. The first of these, because of its lack of accommodation for constitutional legality. We would be introducing a legislative document with no legal certainty, subject to serious contradictions with the legal order, undeniable, and which was clearly to be challenged before the Constitutional Court. And this is with the only reading of the explanatory statement; beyond the difficulties are even greater, and they are accentuated in a total way. We understand that initiatives of these characteristics must be, to the extent that they have not been regulated, further studied in the Congress of Deputies, and with accommodation to constitutional legality. Or, where appropriate, with the repeal in the same House of previous legislation, or with the amendment of laws or codes, of existing organic laws. That is a fact of first Political and first Parliament. I mean, that's the way it is. There are things you can't do, and you can't do it here, and you have to analyze that. That is why some considerations made by some other spokesperson were very appropriate and understandable. We continue to observe the same usual reckless tics: violation of the Amnesty Act of 77, empowerment of administrative bodies to build judicial truths, criminal truths, and, ultimately, a step further in that obsession sickens, and – and perhaps the most serious thing – to continue to seek social fractures with appearance of legality. Moreover, knowing that it is impossible for such an initiative to be adopted in an autonomous parliament on the basis of the initiative itself. It's impossible. The second reason is that we agree with the Government's approach basically in its first paragraph, which states that it expresses its unfavourable approach to the consideration of the above-mentioned bill. The government had no choice but to do so. Well, the representatives of the groups that support him have explained this, and I think it has also become very clear. If a government that has to implement policy measures, and has made a superficial analysis of the initiative, has considered it inappropriate to take it into consideration, in addition to the various difficulties involved – there have been some, I am sure that the most serious ones have not been reproduced in the criterion, although some have pointed out Mr Iturrate – it is clear that the difficulties for a study of this initiative with legal solvency increase exponentially. Moreover, the fact of being able to study normatively – and that is said in the criterion, the fact of being able to study normatively – gaps that may eventually be found, and that may be so, does not imply the adoption of comprehensive measures, some of which have already been regulated in addition, and others are of impossible legal-constitutional fit. And others are a voluntary construction that is projected against the Administration of Justice or in favor of political discretion, also based on legal uncertainty. It is clear that many Basque people on both sides of the contest, and many others at the time of Francoism, suffered severe suffering and deprivation of their rights. Spanish and Basque society have been making efforts to recover the memory and to repair the injured. That effort is made to the fullest extent, and it is possible to continue to do so where justice or law have not arrived, but this approach of administrative management that is being done today can have starting effects, but we all know that it has no arrival effects. And the third reason is that those who still move in political dependence on violent organizations cannot present themselves today as defenders of coexistence and human rights, as if nothing had happened between this moment of the analysis of this initiative and the historical moments analyzed in the initiative. Like nothing's happened. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative without a possible legal-constitutional link did not seek coexistence, it sought propaganda. And this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u21	Finish up, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u22	Acabo. This initiative – I do not share Mr Iturrate's statement – is not immature. What it is, is an exercise in searching for the fracture and weakening coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Third point in theme list: "In the same way as the Companions of Podemos and Euskalia Pogula, in order to assign the management of the Eukozoa to the services of the live restaurants on which the trial is to be administered by political responsibilities. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Bengoche, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u24	Thank you. The presentation of this proposal to open a commission of inquiry does not really need more support than to follow the presentation in the Commission of Education, on 16 October 2017, of the new president of the Basque Competition Authority, Ms Alba Urresola. It was a truly enlightening appearance. He informed us – and let me make a brief review – that, following a company's complaint to the Basque Competition Authority, an investigation file was opened on how this service had passed between 2003 and 2015. The principle of this service, and of what was then the cause of its malfunction, was that in 2003 a tender is opened for the approval of companies, and seven companies are approved, and there is no further tender for the approval. We therefore have a situation since 2003, in which only seven companies are approved to provide this service. That in itself is already a limitation of competition, and therefore a limitation to obtaining the best possible service, which is clear and obvious: 2013-2015, twelve years in which only seven companies are approved to provide that service. And the system was clear and transparent, and anyone, especially within the department, who had responsibilities could see it: there were nine lots of awards, and only seven approved companies. And it was divided into three-year periods, in the second year of which an economic offer was repeated. Well, each company chose the lot they wanted for themselves and offered a very reasonable price, and in the rest of the lots offered the maximum price possible, knowing that they would not get it. Then, each one chose his lot and in that lot no one got involved, and in that lot offered a reasonable price, and in the others the maximum. But, although it was divided into three, the bidding was made every three years, the second year had to be resubmitted a price. For in the second year already the descaro was total: each company presented only a price for the lot that it was attending, and not for the others, and no one got into that lot. With this I would like to say that, as the President of the Basque Competition Authority explained to us, there was clear, clear and obvious consultation between companies. It was. In 2015 the Basque Competition Authority failed, and it failed and qualified the performance as "very serious". We all know that faults are usually classified as mild, serious or very serious. The Basque Competition Authority considers this action to be very serious, and imposes a fine of 18 million euros. And not only that, but it also figures the damage to the administration at 7 million long annuals. There are times when we talk about 81 million, because we take that figure and multiply it by the years investigated. This is not fair, this is another thing that will have to be addressed in the committee, because each year was different. Even a few years could have been superior, especially in the times of bonanza. And we are going to keep the official figure recognised, which is that in the last year the Administration suffered a damage of more than 7 million euros. Since this is already worthy of being looked at and investigated, why has that happened (in itself it is already worthy), things get worse when companies resort to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, they resort to the penalty of 18 million euros. And the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country decides, if I am not mistaken (I have here the...), in June 2017, just last year, it decides that the conclusions of the Basque Competition Authority are correct, validates them, but reduces the fine to the companies, because it considers the Basque Government to be responsible for that damage to the Administration. So that's when you already get your face squared, he says. There is a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country stating that the Basque Government is responsible for this damage done to the Administration, which is estimated last year at 7 million long euros but which may be, in the total period, between 60 and 80 million euros. And it's okay. And it's okay! I, the truth, perhaps naively, when the president of the Basque Competition Authority came I said to her: "And has not an internal investigation been opened in the department?". And he says, "Let me know, no." Let's see, isn't it worth investigating what happened, what wrong decisions have been made, why have they been made like this? If out of laxity, out of ignorance, or also – it is not to be ruled out – for profit, it has been allowed that a system that in its concertation was transparent (because it was transparent, it was not hidden), and that has meant only for the Administration a damage that, in the absence of greater concreteness, has been of 7 million last year, something else, and between 60 and 80 million euros throughout the period 2003 to 2015, over twelve years, and, having that manifestation of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, it is not investigated. We need to look into it, we need to know what happened. And I'm sorry, this is hard and it's difficult, but we have to establish responsibilities, that we're not going to make value judgments. We don't know why they have been, but whether they're for leniency, ignorance or profit, we'll have to know him. You'll have to meet him. And there is another aspect in which the Basque Competition Authority did not enter, but we have to bear in mind that in the dining room service the Basque Government pays 65%, and the families pay 35%. And if in the last year the damage to the administration was 7 million, then for the families it must have been about 4 million! Or not? 35% were paid by the families, and that is another thing that we need to clarify, whether when we figure the damage at 7 million we are referring only to the damage of the administration, or we are also including the economic damage that families have suffered, and that for twelve years. We have no choice but to address it. So that is why our group has tabled this initiative to open a committee of inquiry on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together, Mr. Becerra of the Podemos team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u26	Good morning, everyone. Seven companies, for 12 years, made an illegal deal to divide and control the school menu market. The prices which they paid on the one hand were higher, and, on the other, their profits increased at the expense of the public money, and on the account of their families. What happened? Why did it happen? And who or who allowed or enabled what had happened? We have to investigate all that. Find out, investigar. Investigate how the Basque Competition Agency investigated in 2016, to demonstrate that these seven catering companies The Basque Competition Agency has shown that the system of direct management of the school canteens established by the Department of Education not only prevents the organizational autonomy of the centers, it not only goes to the detriment of the quality of the menus, not only harms the local economy, but also between 2003 and 2015 it has been able to cause a patrimonial breakdown of up to 84 million euros to the public coffers. I say "even" because, as Mrs Bengoechea has said, the exact figures are not known. But it was also able to cause an extra cost to families of 45 million euros in these twelve years. If we add up, we have up to 130 million euros that are lost. And in return they had a fine of only 18 million euros, which later the courts have lowered. Why did the courts lower it? In 2017, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country ruled, one, that the business pact existed; two, that the economic breakdown occurred, and three, and most seriously, that the process counted on the passiveness of the Department of Education. And I read expressly that "the Basque Government with its actions" – the judgment says – "contributed to the companies' understanding that they acted in an absorptive manner in the public interest, without any reaction, investigation, consultation, prevention, or complaint against them from the Basque Government." Qué ha passo aquaí? "Pues hay que investigarlo." Investigar. Find out. Find out the causes on the one hand. On the one hand, as I have mentioned, the conduct of the administration, the second political responsibility. Especially political responsibility. And the consequences, the economic damage the administration had taken, but the families paid over extra fees. And I'll stop for a moment on the issue of property damage. In 2016, in March 2016, this Parliament, the plenary of this Parliament, adopted a three-point motion, one of which said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to study whether property damage has occurred." A year later, the response of the Basque Government to this request from Parliament, made at the request of the EH Bildu group, leaves no doubt about the Government's commitment to this issue. And the Government says: "With regard to the commitment made to analyse alleged situations of property liability, it must be indicated that this requires the initiative of the citizenry that can be expressly affected, a circumstance that has not occurred in this case, given the absence of claims submitted". Take it now! Property damage is not analysed because there have been no claims. The main damage is the Basque Government; as it has not claimed...! The next victim is the families. They haven't claimed either. Why haven't the families claimed? In order for property damage to be claimed, the law states that "there must be effective damage or damage" – this has been proven – "economically and individually assessable, as a result of the normal or abnormal functioning of the public services that have occurred, without the legal duty of the person suffering the damage to bear it". Cash damage, checked. Economically evaluable damage and individualized damage; that is what has not been investigated so far, how much damage has been done, so that families and those who feel unfairly treated can claim this property damage. And we consider from our group that it is the mission of Parliament and that it will be the mission of the Committee of Inquiry, on the one hand, logically to determine the political and administrative responsibilities – which I have already referred to – but also, as Mrs Bengoechea has said, to know in a reliable way the millionaire property damage that has occurred. Because, beyond the cold numbers, the cold 130 million euros, there are thousands of people, thousands of families who have suffered, who have suffered this unjust situation. Families of the Basque public school, the humblest and most forgotten. Families who have to send their sons and daughters to the dining room not for pleasure, but because they have to go to work. Families with difficulties in reaching the end of the month, and families that often need to resort to dining grants. And families who pay their taxes in the confidence that those taxes will be allocated by the Administration for a well-managed purpose, and not as has happened here. To all those families and to all those people who still trust institutions to look after their well-being and their interests, we owe this commission of inquiry that we now demand. Seven companies, 12 years old. Seven companies, but thousands of families damaged. And these families want to know. They want to know what happened, why this fraud happened and what we're going to do don't repeat the scam we're gonna do. That's why we're asking you to vote for our proposal so we can form an investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Lopez de Rockiebe, the representative of the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning, everyone. Welcome before we begin, all the agents are there, and thank you also for your work. In this House we have heard over and over again about transparency, we hear practically every Thursday about transparency, about accountability, and that is exactly what brings us here today, to ensure that transparency. Not only is it worth talking about, but it has to be proved. A problem, with putting it in a drawer certainly won't disappear, and in this case we don't want it to be forgotten either. That would be a lack of responsibility that as politicians or politicians touches us. We've talked about meals in this Chamber over and over. But today the purpose is to put transparency on the table. As well as transparency and responsibility. Those are the challenges today and the EH Collect will always be on their side. We have an obligation to clarify, once and for all, this rather than worrying situation that has taken place over the last few years in the management of school eateries, and of course we must ensure that transparency to the extent that is our responsibility. At the very least, today we have a responsibility to respond to society, but a response also to families, who bear the brunt of the dubious direct management of the dining rooms that the Department of Education and this Government continues to maintain. It's not our goal to seek criminal responsibility, because it's not our job and that's why we're not here. Helburua ez da ardura penalak bilatzea, gaur ez gara horretara etorri eta ez gaude hemen horretarako henera. The administrative procedure is open, and neither is it up to us to get in there, but the pursuit of political responsibility is our obligation. That political responsibility that can make it possible to get to the bottom of the matter, to rethink this model in addition, to review it and to try to give an answer that we are asked by all the agents surrounding the issue of dining rooms. Today for today there are several movements that derive from the motion presented in this House on March 3, 2016 in relation to these dining rooms. This is present, and we hope it will serve the future. But let us not forget that the past also has to value it, and that is what can help us not to repeat it. EH Bildu wants and demands a model of dining rooms united to the people, in the service of the families, of the workers, and that it respond to the needs of those who eat every day there, that we do not forget. Let it be a dining room, but let it not be a dining room. One more educational space, a place that serves as a link between products, between boys and girls, a space for social development and, of course, an economic space even in their environment. What's today doesn't look like that at all. For 2000 years, the modern model has been established. Until then, each school had its function. Their parents' unions were in charge of the dining-room. In some schools, there's where the staff would cook the food. At the request of the workmen and my parents, the Red Munchion took over the service of the dining rooms and created a model that's now strong. Every four years he makes a public show of this service among the catering companies. The Board of Education has made changes in the conditions of the tournament, but has not succeeded, the end has not been attained. I return several years, to the year 2014 specifically, when the investigation by the Basque Competition Authority on the distribution of the contracts of these canteens is opened. A distribution that jumps to the front pages of the newspapers and the press in February 2016, but jumps on its most scandalous part, by the already famous fine of 18 million euros to the seven companies. The seven companies that had been shown to share the market, that played and agreed with the prices, and that were awarded year after year. They could be called the "dinner cartel," and we wouldn't be saying anything weird. This judgment, then appealed by the companies themselves, does in fact bring to the public's attention the defects of this poorly-called direct management A judgement that further complicates, if any, the situation of the Government at this time. For the lack of reaction, nothing more, but a lack of reaction with that uncertainty that surrounds the theme of the dining rooms. A sentence that also blows up the trust that families have in this management. In short, a management that has proved to be unsuccessful, a management that binds the feet and hands of families and takes away from them the ability to decide what they want and how they want to manage the dining rooms. In short, the right management has been left in the void, the management of the families which binds them completely, and consequently it deprives them of their power to determine what their children will eat, how they will manage them. This so-called so-called direct management model From EH Bildu we have the firm will to turn around this system that has been shown to benefit companies, not the people who use it or those who eat it every day there, nor the families who assume it because they have no other way out and who also pay it (that we do not forget), and so we have not stopped working to clarify this situation. A clear example, all the initiatives that EH Bildu has put on the table for six years. And I'm going to focus on one, which was where we asked in the summer of last year, in 2017, to attend the Education Commission of all the companies involved in this plot – you can tell – for explanations. On September 20, 2017 the answers begin to arrive. Curiously, answers practically made in one template, and curiously rejecting, one after another, from Auzolan to Eurest, to Gasca, and as simple as that "they have decided respectfully to decline the application for attendance". I will not be denied that, at the very least, it is a matter of suspicion that everyone responds to the same thing, that everyone refuses to come to the Committee on Education, and that everyone does so at the same time. Today EH Bildu again shows that making real politics is possible, that it is not political, that it is not propaganda, because we are not going to use this in a partisan or electoral way, because no, because we have never done it any more. Do not come to us directing the debate in other ways, that we will not go that way. We're going to look for explanations, and also because we don't need to advertise. We are presenting an addendum amendment, but a very simple addition amendment, with a single objective: to take the current picture of these weeks, what we have. They're auctioning, they're not auctioning...? We need the data. An amendment which only says that in three months we need a start-up of that committee of inquiry, in which we certainly agree, but an updated photo in these very days. It's data, it's simple data that can be found, but I think they add to that commission. With this data, they will serve as a starting point for this commission, and responsibilities will be sought. Because if there are responsibilities, we have to clean up, we have no choice but to take action, and the Department of Education has to act. It's our obligation. Moreover, it would be beneficial for the department and the Government today to support this commission. We would see it beneficial, because it would show that there is a willingness on the part of the department, which we now have doubts about, that they are willing to cooperate, and that they are interested in what the agents surrounding this whole dining area have to say. We understand that it is a benefit to all and all. For our part, the position is absolutely clear. EH Bildu has defended it for a few years ago, and today again defends the same: we are going to support this commission of inquiry for the sake of the families, the workers, the boys and girls, and for the sake of the good, I have just said, of the same department. On our side, the attitude is clear, we vote for the legal proposition and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u29	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u30	Gracias, president. Well, today we are discussing a GNP presented by the People's Group and by Elkarrekin Podemos on the setting up of a commission of inquiry concerning the political responsibilities relating to the process of awarding the provision of direct management school dining services of the Basque Government since 2003. We had already discussed this in the previous legislature, a non-legislative proposal very similar to that which is being brought today, that time presented by the PP and the Mixto-UPyD group, and the debate that we had was also about the setting up of a commission of inquiry on the process of awarding the services of direct management school canteens of the Basque Government awarded to certain companies that we all know. In this case the only thing that varies is the object of the committee of inquiry, comparing it with the debate in the previous legislature, but for the same purpose, after all: the setting up of a committee of inquiry in relation to the provision of these dining services. Already in 2014 the Basque Authority of the Competition opened a sanctioning file against the catering companies This file was initiated, as the president of the Basque Competition Authority explained on October 10th, by a complaint from a company. At that time, the research focused on bidding for the service of direct management school canteens under the Department of Education. The investigation was conducted from 2003 to 2014, focusing on seven companies mainly, concluding with a resolution dated 4 February 2016. In that resolution, it concluded that there was a concerted practice of market sharing by certain companies, the same ones that have been investigated. Penalties are imposed, according to the Law on the Defence of Competition, as very serious offences, or the fines corresponding to each case. Once the sanctions have been imposed, as Mrs Bengoechea has already reported, they are appealed to the Chamber of Litigation of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, and the court has resolved the complaints: judgments of June 2017, in which it ratified the decision already adopted by the Basque Competition Authority, in which it manifests a concerted practice of market sharing, and affirms or confirms the infringing behaviour of these companies. Once the challenges by the High Court of Justice had been put to the fore and completed, the Department of Education had to draw up new tenders to continue that service. That was the conclusion of this whole process. And the Department of Education, with the help of the Basque Competition Authority, designs new brochures aimed at promoting competition, removing entry barriers; the brochures are shielded from a possible concertation of companies, in order to correct this situation, which led to an artificial increase in the definitive prices that were established. It has been shown that with the changes that an amount of approximately EUR 7 million was saved, which is why, from another perspective, it is so much like saying that there has been a significant loss of money, and that, if this situation changed since 2015, in previous years, it is true that something similar could have been done. My group's position on this situation, the practical concertation of companies, generating the sharing of the market, is totally contrary. Because, as has been shown, these companies engaged in these practices, both after the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority, as well as in the ratification of these facts by the TSJ. My group has always been in favour of setting up committees of inquiry, provided that there have been clear reasons to justify it. It is true that in this case practices have been demonstrated against corporate competition, and that is why we are not going to refuse to set up this committee, but, although that is true, this parliamentary committee of inquiry sincerely believes that it will not draw conclusions that are very different from those already adopted in the previous parliamentary term. The initiative indicates that the aim is to unravel and clear how many responsibilities are involved in parliamentary research, and this responsibility or competence we believe is not ours, but the Basque Competition Authority, which has brought this case to light and has already sanctioned companies that have engaged in business competition. As I mentioned earlier, we had the appearance four months ago of the Basque Competition Authority, and that president in no case mentioned that there had been neither complicity nor favor by the Education Administration in the criminal acts. Therefore, if this administration, with the means it has and the time it has devoted to this case, investigating the companies for so many years, and being firm and strong in its resolution, has not come to point out any irregularities in the Department of Education, we do not consider that we will be able to go further. Faced with such a sensitive issue as this, the feeding of our sons and daughters belonging to public institutions, in a service provided directly by the Basque Government, it is true that we cannot remain motionless. The decision of the Basque Competition Authority, such as the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, made such a situation a reality, and this led to the creation of new specifications, with which we have seen that the current public procurement rules are increasingly guaranteeing competition and free competition. But we understand that we can always go further so that these cases do not happen again, so that no agreements are generated to take advantage. My group wants to ratify here today in the agreements reached in the X Legislature. In an amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist group and by the Euskal Herria Bildu group, we urged the Basque Government to bring this situation to the attention of the Prosecutor's Office, in order to assess whether criminal liability could be derived; to consider whether property damage had occurred; and, where appropriate, to ensure that legal services initiated as many legal actions as necessary to compensate the public archives for the damage caused. Finally, we urged the Basque Government to step up its work, as long as the contract was in force, to analyse and decide on the steps to be taken, with the aim of adapting the management model of the canteens, so that, if necessary, each public centre could freely choose how to manage its canteen. It was probably the most important novelty of that agreement. Therefore, in this sense, I am surprised by the change of view of the EH Bildu group, because, as I have mentioned, they signed the amendment with us and we have reached this agreement. And that agreement was reached by the three groups. We believe that the Basque Competition Authority, together with the Prosecutor's Office, is the one who had – and who has, in addition – the competition and who must act accordingly. In any case, as I said at the beginning – I will make some consideration in the turn of reply – as is customary in the Socialist Group, we will not hinder the launch of this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u32	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen of the department, good morning. Today, once again, we talk about the management of the school stations, in this case, there's no surprise now that we're together by the parlamentary groups of Podemos and Popular groups. One must say, holding them both by the hand, a little tightly bound. If you look closely, the groups that have made this proposal do not here require a committee of inquiry, but a platform for eupscal politics. Some of them, the Popular Party, and others, together by Podemos, seek to place us in the same degree as the corruption of Spain. On the one hand, the Popular Party, full of filth and political corruption, is trying to pollute the euscal politics. I understand. Every day I see you in corruption, covered, buried. That's impossible for you. That's why you have to make a mess of it, because it affects more people, saying that all the politicians are the same. But we're not the same. On the other hand, Podemos must appear together like a passionate champion of purity. It's mostly because of the corruption that's grown up, and that's the only flag that's left to it now, and they think it's the best way to hurt the Jest Party. I understand, we've become your obsession. He said the proponents don't want a commission of inquiry. I doubt that we parliamentarians have more investigative capacity or more tools for that need than the Basque Competition Authority itself, or the Prosecutor's Office, or other judicial bodies. We know what they're trying to say, but they can't say it. Now, I have to recognize the ability of the People's Party to turn its problems, which are certainly unbearable for much of the militancy, into the problems of all of us who dedicate ourselves to public life; to spread the stain to all so that their sins may seem minor or excusable. And on this collective journey to hell they find allies, Elkarrekin Podemos, who, as a modern Torquemada with Twitter – which Rajoy would say – joins this purifying rite. But they're wrong. You're wrong in plane in the coordinates of time and space. We must not forget that this initiative and those that have been discussed above are the cause of the report and the sanction imposed by the stroke. Well, in the appearance – which Mrs Bengoechea mentioned earlier and has been mentioned here profusely – before the Committee on Education, which ended last October, the president of the stroke said the following, textual: "During the period in question the seven companies proposed the service under an appearance of full normality and full competition, although, nevertheless, they deployed a pattern of conduct that caused a collusion in the market". That's what happened, and that's what sounds like deaf ears. Gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, Mrs Bengoechea, as I have already mentioned in some other intervention, let us speak with property, let us speak with property. Practices that have been investigated and denounced are called collusive practices I am getting used to the unfortunate theatricalization of public life and what this House represents as a case of resonance, but this effort to unite the words fraud Department of Education Basque Government Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, there is an order from the Office of the Prosecutor that resides in the companies the exclusive responsibility in all this unfortunate procedure, and dictates – and this is important to highlight – that there has been an injury to the administration itself. In all this, a very significant figure was evident, in my view very significant: the Basque Competition Authority is public administration. It's public administration. Moreover, it is an autonomous body attached to the Department of Finance and Economics. I think this fact is very relevant! The Government is accused of negligent vigilance The collusive practices said Mrs. Bengoechea were very obvious. They must not be as obvious and obvious as you want to see here, Mrs Bengoechea, and the proof of this is that they have had to pull signs and presumptions to be able to arm the case. Reading the justification of its GNP, of its non-legislative proposal, nothing is asked for or really urged, but everything is already prejudiced. It's all prejudiced and well judged. The writing is actually an accuser finger, it's a more effective way than effective. Our amendment goes the opposite way, and wants to highlight what was approved here in March 2016, in particular the making available of the entire file before the Prosecutor's Office, precisely to circumvent the commission of inquiry, because it was understood and understood as a much more guaranteed way, that of the Prosecutor's Office, a much more guaranteed way for all. Or not? Or don't you get it like that? On the other hand, it was necessary to introduce into the terms of the contracts clauses specifically designed to guarantee competition between competing undertakings, which is suggested by the Basque Competition Authority itself. The Government has done so, and it continues to do so. Moreover, the Prosecutor's Office has already given its opinion and made clear on this first complaint, and I do not think anyone can say that it is an organ of the Basque Government and the PNV, is it not? Evidence that the procedures have improved is the fact that the stroke has filed a second complaint concerning school dining rooms. As I say, we are on an effective path, a path that benefits the administration itself and other companies, and obviously, ultimately, the whole of Basque citizenship. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Passing the answers, representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I must say that the PNV representative's speech has left me with a harritu harritu eta perplejua Let's see, I haven't seen an answer in a long time in which the only interest was to kill the messenger. Gentlemen of the PNV, the truth is the truth, say it Agamenón or say it your scumbag. But the problem is that this has not been said by Agamenón, nor by his scumbag, nor by the People's Party, nor by Elkarrekin Podemos. That's what the judge said. The judge has said that there is a shared responsibility of the Basque Government in the situation. I'm the one who really... And then the number of judgments of intent. Look, I'm going to commit to something: our group in the committee of inquiry, a), has – and I can assure you – no preconceived conclusions, none, and, b), we will never use judgments of intent to make politics. Because, let's see, is that the PNV representative's intervention has been like that of the master who speaks to the servants: "You are wrong about time and space...", "if you mess with me...", "you are wrong...", "because you only want our evil...". Let's see, are we stupid, or what's wrong with us, huh? [[Barres]] This is a Parliament, and no one can believe above good and evil and believe above Parliament's control, which I fear is what the PNV representative has done with judgments of intent. He tells me – yes, very funny – zikintzeko politica I already know that the jelts It's all about the prosecution. The Prosecutor's Office is very important, I agree with what the PNV representative has said, but I believe that a judicial decision is somewhat superior to a demonstration by the Prosecutor's Office. And I repeat: the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country says that in this situation there is a co-res-pon-sa-bi-li-dad of the Basque Government. I don't know if he blasphemed or not, but he did. He said so. It is true that in the committee, which you have heard just like me, I made the mistake of calling fraud fraud. And then he says that, well, that from now on it's worth, but that from behind... skins to the sea. Look, in any company, someone who would have produced, for stupid, ignorant, vague or profiting, a hole of 7 million long euros a year, would have put him on the street. Kicks on the street! I mean, that "well, the back, skins to the sea" thing, no. No, no, And the last. Here we all forget about the harm to families. That is, 35 % of the damage that was done is the damage that was done to the families. And we've only accounted for, in those 7 million euros long, we've only accounted for the damage to the administration. Don't families deserve us to investigate? Well, and with a blow to the chest, in case I've offended a superior stage, I'll say goodbye. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u36	Well, it is clear that in twelve years the parties pass, the advisers pass, but the government remains, and neither in my speech nor in Mrs Bengoechea's, nor in Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe's, have I seen a single party acronym alluded to. Not a single match tag alluded to. Because there have been three parties that have held the Board of Education, three, and we have not quoted any. Mr Latxaga, therefore, when he feels alluded to, is evidently betrayed by his subconscious, possibly. And he ends up talking about corruption, which has also not come out of this word in the debate, from Spain and from Euskadi, which is something that does not come to light, and so on, and so on. He could have had the coherence that EH Bildu had, who had an advisor from Eusko Alkartasuna who was at the time, and yet will support the commission. He could have had the elegance of Mr. Pastor, who also had a counselor, and yet he said that he would not oppose the commission. And yet you accuse – as Mrs Bengoechea said – to the messenger. I do have to tell Mr Pastor that no one has spoken either of complicity or favor, but of inaction. That's what the judges have determined: inaction. And when we talk about collusive practices, and that's true, collusive practices happen when someone looks the other way. And that's inaction. And the judges have determined, they have ruled, they have ruled that there was no reaction, no inquiry, no consultation, no prevention, no complaint against it. Mr. Pastor said, "This matter has already been discussed." Indeed, a debate was held, and a motion was made, and a three-point motion was approved. In the second: "The Basque Government is urged to study whether property damage has occurred". It hasn't been studied. The third: "The Basque Government is urged to step up its work with the various agents, with the ultimate aim of adapting the management model so that each public centre can choose its way of managing its dining room". Two years later, there has still been only the establishment of that commission, and it is not even complete. Therefore, even Parliament's requirements have not been heard by the Government today. Changes have indeed been made. What have these changes been about? In adapting the management system to the legality provided by the Basque Competition Agency. The reality is that today only one more company, only one more company is getting the award, and we don't even have an alternative system that has caused this huge asset hole. I would like to end by thanking Denon Eskola, Global Food Justice and the ELA trade union, who are only a part of the social and trade union agents who have been denouncing this system, which is unfair not only for the harm to the public archives, but for the quality of the menus and for the independence or autonomy of the educational institutions. And I would like to say, to make it clear, as Mrs Bengoechea has said, that our only concern, that of Elkarrekin Podemos, is to know how families have been harmed, and whether they have the chance to recover the money that was stolen from them at the time. Because today the families have been harmed by a negligent attitude of the Department of Education, but above all by some cheating companies (trappers), which today continue to be hired to provide the same service and have not been harmed in that regard. They continue to do that service, each and every one of these companies continues to do that service. And that they not only agree and are a cartel to give that service, but also to give a negative response to this Parliament when it asks them to appear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u38	Thanks again. Mr. Becerra, you forgot that the union up there is LAB. Just for realising it, man. In that it is an opaque system I believe that we all agree, everyone in this House, because companies do not participate in research, because companies refuse to come. So, if we all agree on all that, why don't we fight to get them to come and investigate? I did not intend to leave because I believe that EH Bildu's position has become clear, but from the Socialist Party I am told that we have changed our mind. To change your mind is to think one thing and have to go out to this rostrum to say the opposite, as has happened just in the previous point. That's a change of heart. EH Bildu does not change his mind; he continues to work, one way or the other. The PNV. I knew I was gonna say it, and I've got it pointed at here. I mean, let's not direct the debate by other paths that have nothing to do with it. No one has talked about corruption, no one has talked about such things. I'm ashamed to listen to you, Mr. Latxaga, the truth is I'm ashamed. I knew I was gonna go that way, but we're not dirtying anything. What we're trying to do is clean up. And I believe that the Nationalist Party in this case has some sort of obsession with looking down from the Ebro, who is more or who is less. No, you don't have to look down from the Ebro! Let's look inside. We assume the commission of inquiry, because it is beneficial to everyone, including the department, including the Government. Today we don't talk or stop talking about who is more corrupt or who is less corrupt. No, no, no! We don't care. It is to defend those who cannot do so (and in this case it is the families who have paid the menus above what was), in order to be able to defend themselves. It's our obligation! It's just that we're here to work on it, no more or less. I don't understand it any other way. He was talking about theatricalization. Hey, missing a lot of millions of euros is not theatricalizing anything! They're gone! It is that someone has assumed them, that it must have been the families! Those of us in this House have not been! Well, then, that's all right. Simply prove it, also accept that commission of inquiry, for the good of all. No more, no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u39	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u40	Well, I think we've made our position clear, but I don't resist making some political assessments, which I don't know if they'll share or not, but in any case they're ours. We're talking concertation practice. What you three have done here is also a practice of concertation, and it has legitimate interests behind it, I do not say no, but you are also behind it. It would not be understood unless Bildu, who has within him the counselors who have been practicing these collusive practices longer (two advisors of Eusko Alkartasuna who belong to Bildu), joins. Why? Because it interests you too, and I understand that you legitimately have the opportunity to do so politically, but it interests you to wear down the government. And the People's Party – I will agree with Mr Latxaga, because he is right – is also interested in other scandals, so that it is not just you who have permanent scandals every day, is it not? So that weighs in the heart of the signatories. And from Podemos, finally, as they get into any car that passes before them, it is perfectly understandable. It is their usual practice, regardless of the virtue or not that they see in the matter. In any case, beyond the legitimate underlying political aspirations that are at the back of this whole initiative, because they are, because, if not, it would not be understood that a proposal supported by Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party not so long ago is thrown on the ground and goes to a stage where then you were not willing to go, and were not, in fact... For something it would be. In any case, the committee of inquiry does not seem to me wrong, so we are going to abstain in the vote, but I see that it does not take advantage of each of the committee of inquiry's calls, as we have seen on other occasions, unfortunately, to make value judgments before and after the meeting, which have little to do with what is then discussed there. Because that helps not only not to clarify the truth, but to establish an image of manipulation that is very bad for the object being investigated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u42	Good morning again. Well, we don't see any cases here to investigate. We have nothing to hide at all about this matter, and we are going to answer the different speakers. And first of all, and briefly, EH Bildu's spokesperson talks about the management model of school dining rooms and so on. Hey, that's another debate. The debate we are in today is about collusive practices and concerted action by companies to alter prices. That is what we are talking about, and what has happened in this process. The spokesman also talks about opacity, obscurantism, and that, well, by principles EH Bildu will never deny the investigation. That EH Bildu, in principle, never opposes such investigative work, both you and some qualified spokesmen of your party have expressed it and reiterated it. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, that lie is not true. A little over two years ago, in this House, your group rejected the creation of a commission of inquiry proposed by UPyD and the People's Party, a commission of inquiry into complaints that ETA members had obtained reductions in their sentences thanks to fraudulently obtained university degrees. As we see, it is a new chapter in the law of funnel. Mrs Bengoechea makes an impeccable, even touching, speech, sometimes even emotional, and it's a speech I can agree with. Now, he's got a problem. Do you know what it is? Credibility. Cre-di-bi-li-dad. Legitimacy. And you know as well as I do that credibility is something that when it is lost it costs a lot of time to recover, it evaporates in an open and closed eye, Mrs Bengoechea, just what happens to your political formation. On the other hand, I find it very difficult to believe that both you and Mr Becerra really have a research interest, go to this committee with the intellectual curiosity that it requires and the hunger for knowledge that you manifest here today. Do you know why I'm telling you this? Because I saw published yesterday in a newspaper, published on February 7, the headline "The Basque Parliament will investigate the fraud of school dining rooms". Mr Becerra and Mrs Bengoechea stand as a judge and prosecutor, and pass judgement before they have heard anyone, before they have heard anyone. Mrs Bengoechea says textual (Mrs Bengoechea, you say textual): "If it were a private company, at least this would be considered unfair administration." What are we talking about, Mrs. Bengoechea? Do you know what you're talking about? Unfair administration is defined as a crime (a crime), halfway between embezzlement of funds and misappropriation. It is a good thing that political and not criminal responsibilities were clarified here, because you have already put the sambenite on these gentlemen. It seems to draw further conclusions, without listening to anyone, to which no judicial body or the Prosecutor's Office has reached. You seem to have more legal knowledge than all of them. Let us speak with property, with responsibility, and let us not do things lightly, which gives me the feeling that this is the case here. But Mr. Becerra doesn't get short either. It says in the above-mentioned article that "the government's cessation of action is a connivance with this defeat". Literal, textual: he is already sentenced, he already describes it as defeat (another criminal type, by the way), and the government, necessary collaborator. You don't want to investigate. You don't want to investigate. The motion for a resolution which will be forwarded to the supposed committee of inquiry has already been drafted and issued. It's already written. A little measure and responsibility wouldn't hurt either of us. If this commission of inquiry, measure and responsibility is to be formed. The facts don't seem to matter to them. Beyond what really happened, I believe in what I believe, don't I, Mr. Becerra? You believe in what you believe. The very definition of post-truth. Like I said, they're not looking for the truth, they're not really looking for the investigation. They're looking for this, the headline. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. It's over and we'll vote for the EH Collect team first. Let's add EH Collect correction first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u44	So it's accepted. Next, we will vote together the original text of Podemos and Euscalia Popula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u45	So the original text has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Egree, and together with the same proposition as the parliamentary groups of Podemos, concerning domestic errors and the resolution of the organization of the United Nations. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, the representative of the Podemos group has the word to present and defend itself. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u46	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. I'm speaking for my team. But not only, but we speak of the demand for the platform, and I'll tell you that I'm more concerned about it. Not only do I take the floor on my behalf, but this joint initiative on the UN opinion on evictions, which we are presenting with EH Bildu, is at the request of the platforms of Euskadi Stop evictions, present here (ongi etorri). Some platforms that, along with other social movements (I remember some with special affection, such as the Bilbao movement Etxebizitza Guztiontzat, which we organize different youth groups), are those that have pushed, pushed, demanded the progress that this country has made in housing. It is they and they who have put their body in front of injustice. It is they and they who have given voice to those who wanted to silence, who have joined together and organized so that there is not a single person on the street. And it is they and they who have managed to get these parliaments, these institutions, to move and make some kind of progress. And yes, I say progress, but we are far, far from reaching that dream and that basic right of decent and affordable housing for all. Because – we said in the justification – that capitalist orgy, speculative, which brought with it one of the longest economic crises of recent times, put on the foreground a reality, one of the main problems of this unjust economic system, which is nothing other than the lack of guarantee of the right to housing. A right that in Euskadi, after a long time of struggle, is a subjective right, but that really and effectively is not fulfilled. Public housing policy is not complied with, nor is it complied with in the private rental market. And I say it again, and I also said it in the previous debate: that average of 800 euros for a humble floor in Bilbao, is it normal in a democratic and advanced country? Well, look, I don't think so. Under these conditions, what young Basque is going to emancipate? What life will a young person have in Euskal Herria, paying rents that exceed in more than half what he can charge in the current jobs, not to mention that, for good or for bad, he has to share flat? What young man can he give up? Considering today's work date, what quality will a young man in the Basque Country have if he has to pay more than half his salary? I've had thousands of families in the waiting-house for years, and there's a high price in society for the chance of getting a decent apartment by young people. The daily rentals of people who can't afford rent. In June 2013, the great Council of Judicial Power, in order to enable you to take the measures of social character from the familiar housing-and the co-operation signed in the state of distress has not been an effective tool. The instrument has not yet been effective, not to be able to perceive the state of anxiety, or to guarantee a home condition of people and collective persons who are in a vulnerable state. Because I ask: The follow-up committee that was in that agreement has it been formed, has it met?, what work is it doing? Nor has the convention worked, as the latest evictions show. Evictions that many of them have not had prior reports of Social Services; evictions that have not taken into account judges, that have not valued the interests of the children who were affected, and evictions that have previously not been guaranteed a housing alternative in all cases. They have their own name, I believe that in this small country we can all know them: Gato, Antonia and their two children in September; Naiara, Samuel and their three minor children in December; Mawa, Mohamed and their four children on 19 January. Where are the government's commitments at this point? Why do we sign the agreements? We must do more than the signature of the convention itself; we must put them into operation. We can't just take the picture and keep it in the drawer. The judgment of the United Nations is very clear in that sense. But don't we even listen to what the United Nations say? To tell you the truth, the Housing Department and Eude agreed on in January 2017, but at the same time, and as we say in the other case, it is not enough. Because it's only for public housing, and that's a positive thing, yes, on one hand, but we need to say it's not enough. That's why, in the middle of the half, the Basque Law asks the Red People to renew that pact, to improve and renew it, to improve their efficiency, and to recognize the supposed case of damage. For all this, and in the spirit of reaching agreements, effective agreements, which we also think we are going to be vigilant about, as we are a few months ago on which we also agreed among the four groups that we have also signed this initiative; agreements in this case by the hand of this initiative with Euskal Herria Bildu and at the request of the Stop Essahucios platform. And he said that we are in the mood to reach agreements with a very clear objective; an agreement, as he said, concrete, concise, and we also think that it is even easily achievable for the Government. But I repeat, we'll be on top. We will be above the renewal of that agreement, the renewal and improvement of that agreement, so that, as long as we do not ban this indecency that we have in the Spanish State, that there be evictions of first homes, always have a housing alternative. And that must be guaranteed by this Basque Government. We will be on top of it to work alongside the platforms to avoid evictions without alternative, just as it began to happen, as I said, in Alokabide, that we congratulate him (with deficiencies, but that is there). To increase also in the budgets of 2019 the budget for public housing. And I really hope that this agreement will do something, because, as I said before, we have recently signed, a few months ago, an agreement that is not being implemented, at least in its entirety, and we hope that this will change. For my part, I believe this is the last time that, before the previous agreement is fulfilled, we will give the approval to a next one. We're gonna be demanding. We are being demanding and proactive, and I think we have to see that the agreements that we have signed in this Parliament are also being implemented by the government. Because in that country – which we see so much publicity – in that country of the common good, it is still indecent that there are houses without people and people without houses. It is indecent that in the land of the common good there are people without homes and houses without people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u47	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EHG team, Madam Olivet, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u48	Thank you, Mrs. President. This other proposition, as we have today to discuss, which we have introduced together with the Podemos billing together, as Mr Martínnez has well explained, the release answers a request made by the Stop Platform. First, welcomes to our art, and thank you very much for the excellent work you do in general, and for prolonging such proposals as we are at present able to discuss in detail. "Now therefore, you shall know that as far as you are concerned, you will be ready to give way to your petitions from now on." This other proposition, then, as we presented it, is placed in a particular context, as has been shown by Mr. Martín. I shall never repeat what he has said. He has mentioned, of course, the measure they take to avoid being fired, or at least to resist them. Some work well, yes, and others are not being effective at all. As we agreed, I'll focus more on the organization of the United Nations itself. The days go by and the days come, a home-care or at least an attempt is made. It's a reality. And in order to face this reality, there came a very high estimate of the 20th June, 2017, a decree accepted by the Society of the United Nations in Economic, Social, and Cultural Committee. We know that these judgments are not laws, but that they are not necessarily to be fulfilled; This was a crime against the Spanish state, the crime given to Mohamed Ben Djazia, Naouel Bellil, and the case of two minor sons. A family in a state of damage or weakness, when they have no alternative to life, declared that the watering of the international right for a suitable housing is serious, especially when they are young. It plainly establishes that the members of the State have a right to prevent similar violations in the future, and that their legislation and application will agree with the duties received in the Internationall Covenant of the Human Rights of the United Nations, especially these four following duties: First, that in the case of judicial prosecutions about the establishments of Mr. Heating, the defendants may be able to oppose or submit a resource to the measures of legislation which are just and/or the measures of administration. So that the judge should consider the effects of domestic injury, and the mutual compatibility of that measure, and the Internationall Covenant of Human Rights. On the other hand, the measures necessary to overcome the lack of co-ordination between judicial decisions and the actions of social services may, in consequence of these problems, be left without a proper dwelling. Thirdly, to make sure, that the removal of the domestic affairs of persons who have no means of making an alternative lodging, only after a consultation, which will be real and effective, is necessary, to make sure, after the examination of such persons, the persons laid out, especially families, old children, or other persons, who are in the same state of damage, have recourse to all possible means of being an alternative abode. And finally, using the co-ordination of autonomys, and all the means available, to those who have low incomes, to guarantee the right of making an appropriate housing, to form and effect an intelligible and integrated plan, a sufficient criterion of means, measure, time, and evaluation. At the last point of the commissionation, he gives six months' time to give an answer to the Spanish State by explaining the measures which it will take to the thread of this judgment. There is an international continuation plan in order to continue the execution of this execution, including the platforms opposed to the dismissal. And, according to what we have been informed, this reply has not yet been sent to the United Nations. And it's been six months since then. Besides, let the State publish this proposition, and distribute it openly in its accessable form, that it may arrive in all the communities of the people. And this, as far as we know, has not been fulfilled. During these days, according to the prediction of the American Autonomy of the Basque Country, which we are hearing so much, we find that the Esquimenia of Euskal, the Esquimenia of the Election in the Administration of Justice, and that our autonomy member of our autonomy, as regards the division of the city, the housing, and the organization of the country, has a hundred percent of the authority of the regulation of the organization of the United Nations. In November, in order to strengthen this judgment, the Supreme Court gave the sentence 1797/2017, which said: An order of domestic absence, an order of domestic protection which does not regulate the personal, social, and familiar condition of the minority which has produced them, is not compatible with the legal protection which ought to be supported by minor rights and interests. This sentence proceeds from the same principle of the institution of the United Nations, as it would be the wisest, but, as we know, it is the only sentence. But it's not every court that's given this court, it's the Supreme Court. So it seems that he's on the right track and that we'll expect more sentences like this to come from now on. Accordingly, considering all this, and considering all the reasons which Mr. Martin had alluded to before, we found it at first very convenient for us to lay out what the Stop platform proposed to us, and presented ourselves as just as we are able to discuss. We are very glad and grateful this time that we have come to a large understanding. He's actually being very easy to get into agreement with the housing business and that's really grateful. A half-way proposal came to us. We, of course, had hired the streets with the Stop platform and, according to what they discussed, the Pedemus legal gangs and ourselves, the U.S.C.S.S.C.C.s., we thought that the media was appropriate. We've added a couple of accounts to her, and she's going on without any trouble, and that's really very happy, I'll say it again. Let's see if we've got these options from now on. But what I'd like to ask for is that it doesn't happen more than once this time, does it? That the agreements which this legislature receives are neglected, and that the worst, at least, are not fulfilled as a whole. Now, as this is a serious matter, we shall all, as Mr. Martínez said, all the decisions or proposals we have made here will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u49	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Yes, Madam Ottamount, it is a pleasure to come to terms with all normality and almost all things in this matter. And, in truth, it is easy because we have a good tune, because we cultivate it well, because we do it with sincerity, and I think that almost all the groups are in the same direction. This is very positive, not only because the agreement is obtained, but because these politics are strengthened. And, after all, we're here in Euskakid because we have a social right or because we have to have it, and that's because we're getting stronger. So, on my side, thank you all for coming to this wide agreement. This also is our speciality in this subject, that we all should strengthen our laws, strengthen our social rights, use our tools within our self-generacy, and our capacity, for our courage also has been the brave man in this subject, because we believe that it is a part of our personality. We felt that this non-law proposal was appropriate to us. It seemed appropriate to us because it also came out of a judgment on a specific topic, but we believe that there are many more topics or similar situations. It was therefore an issue to be addressed, it was an issue to be discussed, and it was an issue on which we had to speak. And not only do we say: try to put policies and solutions in place. Therefore, I think it is positive. I think it is positive, and it also puts us on an X-ray that we need to analyze, and I think it is our own X-ray in the Basque Autonomous Community in relation to mortgages. I think comparatively – and I say this with absolute sincerity – with other autonomous communities our situation is much better, fortunately, which does not mean that it is a topic that should stop worrying. I believe that this is something that must give us satisfaction, as we have a lower level of housing emergency as a result of the evictions, the launchings. The fact that mortgage pressure is lower in the autonomous community does not mean that there are no situations. Well, let's face those situations. I believe that the tools that the Basque Government is running are being quite effective, very effective, I would say, and that the percentage of launches, especially with regard to launches affecting public housing, I would dare to say that it is minimal, if not non-existent. I think that shows that these tools are perfectly effective. But, as I was saying, should this cause us to relax or...? No, we cannot be conformist on this issue, and we must put in tools, because while there is only one case, I think there is a gravity. As long as there is only one case, there will be gravity. We must therefore deal with this situation of gravity, and we must be very serious and very responsible all in this matter. I therefore believe that, depending on the tools we have, we need to put them in place and try to prevent that from happening. And I believe that in Euskadi we have an advantage over the rest of the autonomous communities of the Spanish State, and it is here that a milestone was marked, a milestone in the conquest of social rights, which was the adoption of the Housing Act. And that Housing Act is a fundamental basis for these issues and situations not to occur. Not only so that they do not occur, but to have a health cord even so that they do not come to occur. It is true that the full development of that law is still not such. It is not so, among other things, because in this specific issue, in everything that even concerns the condition or the implementation of rental policies, there is a suspension of a series of articles by the Constitutional Court, which in some way has us quite manipulated, and so it is. That is why we are anxiously hoping that there will be a pronouncement on this and that this will allow us to fully develop a law in which we are already working, in this full development, with the elaboration of the decree that recognizes the subjective right to housing, among others (the housing plan...). I believe that much and good work is being done, and that not only is work being done unilaterally by the Government, but even very intensive work is being done with different movements and collectives which, of course, are going to give a much broader perspective, which are going to enrich these documents much more. We will have to put the instruments, as part of the government, in order for that to happen. Logically, we have an ambitious law, which, as I said before, I believe is a milestone in the conquest of social rights in this country, which is a benchmark, which is at the forefront, and which even other autonomous communities are trying to copy, but that, logically, must also be backed by a major economic effort in the budgets. That is so, and in the end we will all have to be co-responsible to this extent, in order to enable those policies to prevent people from entering a situation of risk of social exclusion. We need to put all the necessary resources in place so that those people or sectors of the population who are most vulnerable, or who are in a housing emergency, can have, with guarantee and as soon as possible, a solution that prevents them from being seen in that situation. Well, well, we're working on that, and we're doing it not since we came to this government, during this legislature: we've been working on that since 2010; we've been working on that since Patxi López was lehendakari and Mr. Arriola was a counselor, also in that government, from the Department of Housing, because that's when we started working on the Housing Act that we have on the table today, which today is a reality. We must therefore continue to insist, we must continue to work, and we must continue to put instruments on the table so that the situation is as good as possible and that this law really is as effective as possible. We therefore agree that we need to review, that we need to improve, that we need to renew the agreement we have with the General Council of the Judiciary and with Eudel. We have to make it more effective, more flexible, and adapt it to the new situations that come to us, but above all to try to make this early detection as effective as possible, as premature as possible, and allow us to anticipate circumstances that in some cases already come to pass and that already come with a much more complicated possibility of adopting solutions. That is why we believe that it is important to strengthen policies for preferential access to housing in a housing emergency, in order to avoid precisely that risk and to avoid, in some way, also such situations of social exclusion, with alternative housing options to avoid such situations. And we also believe that we have a problem, and that is why the proposal made in the original proposal for changes within the Urban Leases Act seemed very interesting to us. Because I believe that I can give the people concerned the opportunity to submit or lodge an appeal that will enable them to analyse all possible alternatives, and that in this case the public administration in Euskadi (the Department of Housing, Alokabide) can move forward and, as soon as that appeal is resolved, have the opportunity already to begin to analyse those situations, it seems tremendously positive to us. The Urban Leases Act should be a guaranteed law for the tenant of the dwelling. We therefore fully agree on the need for legislative changes at national level. The work with the collectives, I said earlier, is being intense; therefore, the point that has been added seems perfectly correct to me. Currently, the development or drafting of the decree recognizing the subjective right to housing is working, within a very ambitious participatory process, with these groups. And many times it takes care, it takes speed and having instruments on the table, but it is that many times we want everything and nothing is achieved. But, of course, we want citizen participation, that participation is broad, that the opinion of all these groups is gathered, and then we want to have it immediately. Well, let's give time to time, let's work it out, so that precisely those tools and contributions can be not only analyzed, but incorporated with the greatest guarantee and be able to have the best possible tool. For our part, therefore, we want to show satisfaction with the agreement we have reached. Of course, and I was saying it right now, I agree that we can often have anxiety or the need to have tools, but I can assure you that the data supports that this Government is not only working effectively, but is even getting ahead many times of the circumstances that people in a housing emergency are living in. And I have no doubt that the effective development of our housing law will mark a historic milestone in this country and will be an example for the rest of the autonomous communities, and we will have the best tool for these situations not to occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u52	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. Of all the consequences of the financial crisis which we have lived or have lived in the past few years, I should say one of the most alarming consequences was that of losing the housing. And unfortunately, many families, unable to pay the rent required by mortgage or month to buy that apartment at a time, have even reached the loss of that apartment. And it is true, too, that the Esscal institutions, troubled and preoccupied, and that we were really in the presence of this serious situation, have, as I believe, attempted to anticipate it, as well as in many other matters. And, without falling into self-incarnation, you will not deny that the families which have been found in our society, by the protection system of society, have lived in so great a degree, or more easily, than in so many other places. Today we need to congratulate ourselves because we've come to an agreement on a housing issue again. I think it was quite easy to make a deal, and I think it was easy even in a way, because we don't start from zero, because many things had already been done before. In that half-way we agreed on, Eudel, AUBREY, and Judicial Council of the Judicial Power, is demanded to renew and improve. It is true, and it has also been remarked that, in the middle of the world, the object of this was premature, because in so many cases the most serious case was perhaps too late when they came to the knowledge of the institutions. If, then, this early exhibition of all the agents who partake of it were possible, perhaps, in many cases the solution or help could be facilitated, because in many other cases they have not been able to help themselves from knowing the cases. And it's true that until now, if we're not in the wrong data, it's given the only case since you've heard it from you, from housing, and I don't know if this hasn't worked properly, but I think the situation has changed since 2013 and it's okay now to see a contract you made four years or five years ago, and to improve as much as possible. We've also agreed to strengthen the housing or housing that is given to families and people in the most urgent situation. And this is done for the last time, and even when Mr. Arrian in 2012 was head of the Houses, the same orders are preserved by many families, who are in a severe condition from the general assignment, and who are of a minor age, by knowing them once and for all by making direct assignations. And it's been years since Housing that, in so many cases, I've known in all the previous cares I've had. This does not mean, like all things, that we ought not to improve; I believe, however, that, being entire powers, even in matters of the housing, we are able to take a little of palmical measures from the institutions of this community. And this criterion given by the Union Organization says that the States ought to make so many and so many changes in laws, if necessary, to guarantee so many rights, and I believe that we demand the Εmperor to extend that request to the Spanish Government in the middle of the country. For it is true that in the Law of the Rents of Towns the express homeless, or that what we know as an Exescesss; and that in the presence of such cases the tenants are exempt from any kind of defence, leaving the rent of a month's rent, the owner has a right to enter a complaint, and carry it to a home without any right of defence. And that leads us directly, I believe, to the Law of the Civil Procedure. And perhaps these cases ought to be conducted by a common process, that the tenant himself may have that right of defence, and that he may not be expelled without an opportunity of answering. That's why I think we should not only present these enterprises here, but at the Courts of Spain. There, all the groups here represented have representatives also, and I believe that we should really be there because these commercial solutions are to be found there, right? And then there's also been mentioned as a number of collective co-workers. I think that co-worker, if he is always loyal and honest, is positive. It is true that in the public housing which now governs the rentals, in the public housing, when such cases happen, there is close co-worker with all these groups of society, and I believe that it contributes also to the early conjunction, which is the key to give me the best and most effective solution in all these cases. And lastly, it has been mentioned that in favour of Mr. Arrandeza, the whole development of the law of Housing must be marked by the housing policy which is here made. I think the subject we're talking about here today is an indirect subject, directly related to pretty societies, but, no doubt, we've always mentioned the development of the Housing Law to be one of the most important challenges in this legislation and especially for Mr. Arriola's department. And here, in some earlier times, we have come to agree also in the development of the law. Now it is absolutely necessary that this development should take place, and I believe that if there are other enterprises about it, there will be no difficulty in making it. And as the last point, just as a little as a reason for this other proposition, to give rise to this criterion of the United Nations' organization. As a matter of fact, we must say that we have no trouble, because we really think there's a lack of protection, because, in fact, there's always something that's wrong with people who can't stand up to him and he's always showing himself to be a weak side in the face of the law. And that the necessary changes may be made in the laws, and that to a family or person, in order to lose or lose a house, it is necessary to give another occasion to the public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well – I believe that all groups in this House have said this, and we too want to reiterate this – housing is a fundamental right, and therefore all public authorities must use it to guarantee that right. Both to ensure that all citizens have access to housing, and to put in place the means to ensure that they do not lose it, when there is eviction, for example. And the truth is that evictions have been one of the bitterest faces after the crisis. It is true that it was not a new phenomenon, it is an objective fact, but from 2008 it is when an exponential growth of evictions begins. And I believe that all the groups in this House, not only here today, but also on other occasions when the matter has been discussed, we have shared the drama that it represents for anyone, for any family, to lose their homes. Because losing home isn't just losing a place to live, it's losing a lot more: it's losing experiences, it's losing memories... I therefore believe that all public authorities must make every effort to try to avoid it. And it is true that things remain to be done, that many things remain to be done, but it is also true, and it must be said so, that neither the Basque institutions nor the Government of Spain have been with arms crossed in the face of situations like these. Here we have talked about what has been done in the Basque institutions, the existing protocols, the agreements and the agreements that have been reached from the Basque Government, as I say, from Eudel, from the municipalities... And also from the Government of Spain, the People's Executive The code of good practice was also established, to which most credit institutions voluntarily adhered, and a system of successive phases was established in favour of vulnerable debtor families. Subsequent legislation has broadened the scope and instruments of this code of good practice, as I will say. Following this line, Royal Decree-Law 27/2012 temporarily suspends evictions of habitual housing of people in particular vulnerability, in order to thus attempt to alleviate the exceptional situation of mortgage debtors, who, due to this exceptional situation of economic crisis, had seen their economic and property situation altered and therefore required exceptional means of protection. Both this decree and Law 1/2013 entrusted the Government with the establishment of a social housing fund owned by credit institutions, aimed at providing coverage to those who were evicted from their habitual housing by the default of the mortgage loan, when they competed with conditions of special vulnerability. The agreement for the establishment of this social housing fund was signed between the Government, the FEMP, third sector platforms, bank employers and thirty-three credit institutions. And from that point on, the process of applications for the selection and award of housing was initiated. In March 2015, a first extension of the group benefiting from these measures was made, by increasing the annual income limit, raising the threshold for the purchase price of the property concerned and also including persons over the age of 60 as persons considered vulnerable. And last year, in March, specifically, the Royal Decree-Law 5/2017 was approved, which was validated in the Congress of Deputies, of measures to reform the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. First, this royal decree includes the extension of the period of suspension of mortgages for three more years (i.e. until 2020). Secondly, the potential group of beneficiaries of both the suspensions of launches and the code of good practice is expanded, thus maintaining the coherence of both measures. To define the group of beneficiaries, family income criteria are applied, the burden of the mortgage fee in relation to such income, and circumstances of special vulnerability, including family units of which a minor is a member, single-parent family units with dependent children, units in which a victim of gender-based violence exists, and units in which a person with a disability, dependency or serious illness who incapacitates him or her to work. In addition, mortgage holders who are unemployed may benefit from the suspension of evictions, regardless of whether or not unemployment benefits have been exhausted, by eliminating this requirement. Thirdly, the Code of Good Practice introduces the possibility that the mortgage debtor may stay in his or her rental home. A rental that will be made within annual time limits up to a maximum of five years, extendable by another five by mutual agreement of the parties, and with a price that cannot exceed 3 % of the value of the housing at the time of the drawdown, determined according to the valuation. The Government also includes a provision in the Royal Decree, obliging it to submit proposals within a maximum of eight months to facilitate the recovery of the habitual housing by the mortgage debtors who accept such suspension of the launches. The truth is that although, as I say, evictions are a drama, mortgage executions have decreased, and a large number of families have been able to benefit from these measures. About 90,000 families. The code of good practice has received 51,000 debtors, with viable restructuring of debts, write-offs and payments. And the social housing fund has made it easier for more than 9,000 families to have affordable rent. And since 2013 almost 28,000 families have been able to stay in their homes thanks to the suspension of the launches. Mortgage executions, as I say, have been reduced. According to the INE, between July and September 2017 60% less executions were started than in the same period of the previous year. And if that's compared to the worst year in terms of mortgage executions, which was the second quarter of 2014, the fall was 84%. But, as Mr Andueza said, that mortgage executions have been reduced, that evictions have been reduced, as long as there is only one family affected, that makes it necessary for the institutions to continue to work, in the Government of Spain, as I say, and also in Euskadi, where, as has been explained here, measures have also been taken to guarantee the right to housing initially and also to be able to cope with this situation when it is lost by eviction. And in relation to whether or not the United Nations requirement has been met, as has also been said here, housing matters are a matter in which there is co-responsibility and in which the competences between the State and the autonomous communities are shared, and the Government of Spain, when it replies to the United Nations in relation to this communication, is going to set out both what is being done by the Government of Spain and what is being done by the autonomous communities, by the different autonomous communities of Spain, and what is also being done in the municipalities. That I believe that what all the institutions are doing is working so that with all the people who are affected, first, as has been said here, through early detection can be done beforehand, and when that early detection has not already worked, by when the situation occurs. And I think that we are also working precisely to prevent the situation from happening. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u55	Thank you, Miss Llanos. It's the answer time. Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos team together, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u56	Thank you. Very short. If it was not clear before, it is true that it has been a relatively simple agreement to achieve. Moreover in these days of this week also, as Mrs Otamendi has said, we counted on the participation of the platforms of Stop Evictions, both in the presentation and in this own negotiation. Therefore, I wanted to make it clear that for us, for our group, the agreement, as it was a few months ago, is vital. And as I said at the beginning, and I wanted to highlight it, the housing policy in Euskadi is a housing policy (the policy of the Basque Government and other initiatives) that comes, good and bad, developing for a very long time. And we publicly in previous years..., in the last legislature we were not in this House, but at least my party did have a positive, very positive appreciation of the Housing Act, with all the shortcomings it could have, but it did have a positive assessment. But neither was housing policy born there. In the good and the bad, I believe that almost all the parliamentary groups in this House are responsible for the housing policy that has been done in Euskadi. But above all also – and I wanted to reschedule it – we must congratulate ourselves on having for years and years had social movements, different platforms, such as those I mentioned earlier, and also right now to Stop Evictions, for having pushed our institutions to make such decisions. And I repeat that congratulations on the agreement, and, as I also said in the previous debate, we have great challenges ahead, which perhaps not only, but also a matter of competence, but if there was political will we could start talking about it, which is a reality that we are not coming to. A reality that we are not coming to, that from the public authorities we have to guarantee. That from the public rent we still have many years to guarantee, if we follow the budget lines as hitherto, the right to a public rent; a rent that is sustainable with a dignified life, with a life in which we do not have to spend more than half of the salary to pay that rent, but that there is money and resources to enjoy our own life, which we are here for. I think we need to start getting a handle on that big speculation on the private rental market. I think it's an important challenge that we have to start... rather than starting, we have to start discussing it and putting in place measures, because at least only with the budgets, and with the perspective that the Government has put forward, we will be able to satisfy the right to public housing for decades. That's why we're excited about the deal. Now it's our paper, the government paper, the paper of the platform and the paper of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u57	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EHG team, Madam Olivet, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u58	Thank you. Very short. Just to tell you that it's true, as Mr Martín said, there's only a second bubble coming. At this moment, this bubble has been raised or created by rent prices, and the only measure to prevent it is to increase the public rent park. For this purpose, it is true, as has been said before, the budgets are required, the budgets are required, and that's in the hands of this government. It's in the hands of this government to mark where the priorities should be. And just a small quote. The three of you have discussed it. Mrs. Beragon said that we can only establish palial measures from here; Mr. Aundeza said that the law of the organization of the Lands requires changes, and Mrs. Llanos also said: "Separten las compencias." Well, we get to the usual. We have not all our jurisdictions, and if we had all our jurisdictions, we ought ourselves to take all the necessary measures to prevent this evil. As long as we have not all these measures or jurisdictions, we shall constantly undergo the boundaries of the Spanish State, or, after all, limits. This is another clear example in the absence of the limits of our magnificent autonomy. This is just another example. We already need all our jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u59	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u60	Thank you, ma'am. In a short while. First, that it is a joy to repeat, to come to this agreement, because it is very important, and we see it with joy. Mr Martínez, I am grateful to you for the positive value of having a housing law, which has been put forward, and I hope that soon we can have a regulatory development that will enable us to have sufficient tools to work as this Government is willing to do and as, to the extent possible and of the tools with which it counts, it is already doing so. I believe that the fact that you positively value that we have this law and the work that has been done is still a good way of recognizing that there have been previous governments that knew how to see reality. Not just this one or the previous one, but the previous one, which was the one who started working. We cannot say the same about other governments and other leaders, who, in the end, when they had the opportunity to put tools and policies on the table, when this Government really had much more economic resources to make a housing policy based on rent, in favour of access to housing for young people, of disadvantaged groups, but above all to put on the table rental policies, they were dedicated to building housing, and to building housing, and to building housing. Which you now sometimes feel to some governments that they are only dedicated to the promotion of public housing. Well, that's what Mr. Madrazo did. This Government is dedicated to implementing rental policies; policies that are also very targeted at specific groups, which we believe are what should be done, which are truly effective policies to change, in some way, the concept that this society has of the sense of ownership. And I believe that these policies are truly relevant, that these policies are truly effective, and that they represent a before and after in the way of doing politics, not only here, but at the national level. Well, well, I am pleased to have a counselor who has decided to implement those policies. There are others who can't say the same. What do you want me to say to him? I am very pleased that you are concerned about this issue, that you are concerned and that you are also bringing us to this House non-legislative proposals. I think it's wonderful, and besides I think it's very appropriate, I support them. But many times before I make a speech, which seems very good to me, that it is right, that I buy it and that I have also supported it here, there are many times that it is appropriate, let us say, to strengthen its positioning with data. And what has attracted much attention to me is that I have come here to make a number of allegations which, as I say, I share, but which have not been backed up by data. I have given some pen, but I would ask you, please, if you are going to deal with these issues in the future, to do so with data; to ask the Government, if you are interested, because to date you have not done so. All the questions that you have recorded in this House on this issue, none have been related to the public housing mortgages that this government has been able to make. Not one. Not one. I invite you to do so, so that you truly know the reality. Do not speak of hearing, speak with tangible data, and when speaking of the policies of this Government do so with ownership. I invite you to do so, because I think it's very healthy. And in the democratic exercise, in his work as a parliamentarian, I think it is a very good thing to contrast the data we have to observe reality and then be able to speak with ownership. That, as I say, I buy you your arguments, eh! I'm really telling you. And I think it is a question..., I said it at first: as long as there is only one problem of a person who can remain in social exclusion and suffer a launch because he does not have an enabling alternative, this government will have to have a commitment. I am therefore very pleased that we have reached this agreement today, and that in the future we will not only have a full development of the law that prevents such situations from occurring, but also all the steps that we have taken by unanimity, as to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Mrs. Berisher, Eubertarian, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u62	I must confess to you that I had no intention of taking the second round, but since Mr. Audeza has raised his tone to this discussion, I have come to hold my spirits a little longer. I'd like to congratulate you again, at least, on the disclosure we've all made for the agreement. There are, of course, many things to be done, and we must continue to do what we have to do. Miss Llanos, as is natural, has also informed us of what the Spanish Government has done, and has praised it. I think there may have been a lot of measures taken, laws and so on, but I don't think it's enough, and Madame Olivet has even pointed out that perhaps a second bubble is coming and that it may happen in the world of rent, and that hitherto I think the Spanish Government has been reduced to the mortgage cases, and I think it's the world of rent that the people who have the least chance of making a house, and that there's really a problem. Are we supposed to limit the amount each one has to pay for his own housing? Okay. And during the law that passed, it was made from the Housing Department and no one in public rent pays more than 30% of their income, Mr Martín, you might lack that information. Privateness is a different matter, but we control it as far as we can, as well as that sphere of public rent. And the growth of the law, of course. Perhaps there, too, will come what we can do in our jurisdictions. But we must not forget that in other respects, and that is why I have spoken about palmical care, when cases occur, at least we have the power to remedy or aid from our institutions. But in many other cases, and I think it is very serious, as I have said before, that quick or express absence of home, which is the least occasion for defence from tenants, and these laws are not in our power. I should like to have complete jurisdictions also, and we have now a chance to talk and agree with each other, but we must continue in Spain to ask for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u64	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat, very briefly. Well, I think in the end it's a mantra about, or asking for all the competencies, or, if not, pointing out that what doesn't work is because it's outside the Basque Government's jurisdiction. I believe that, as I said earlier, the measures taken by the Government of Spain are also taking steps, for example, to amend the Real Estate Credit Act, precisely to address the issues referred to here, but many of the housing issues fall within the competence of this House. When a person is deprived of his or her home, it is up to him or her to remedy that situation. And we reiterate what we said in the housing law debate. There are parts of that Housing Act that we agreed with and parts that we disagreed with. But I also say to you, Mr Andueza, that what the platforms are demanding is also a complete development of that Housing Act, which is slow to develop. And simply to request, if possible, the vote on the amendment by points. We would like to vote separately on points 3 and 4, and then on the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u65	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Do you see any trouble voting points? No. No problem. Now that the dispute has been concluded, we shall place it together to the vote of Podemos, EH Collect, Elegal Socialists, and Eunciators, first of the intermediate corrections, second, fifth, sixth, and seventh points. [[Words]] El 3 y el 4 luego, eh? One, two, five, six and seven, one way. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u66	So they've been unanimously accepted the points given by the half-correction. And now we vote three and four. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u67	So there are three and four points, three and four points of the middle correction correction. Five point in theme list: "The Moment, a member of the legislature of the Popula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. We finished today's plenary session by speaking of the Minones Corps, the Minones Section of the Ertzaintza. All of you, especially those who have travelled from outside Vitoria this morning, have encountered the situation a little complicated on the roads, in the same way as it happened yesterday and has happened this week. And it was yesterday when I heard in a local radio news how they warned that the Álava Foral Diputation had activated the Winter Life Plan in one of its highest degrees, and to that end set in motion a huge number of snow-relief machines and salt-sprinkling machines, as well as, in collaboration with the gangs, heavy vehicles equipped with blades were also set in motion to open the roads. And the radio announcer added that two Miñones patrols had also been launched that would be controlling the opening of all roads in the territory. That sounds good. Those of us who have been here a long time, we know the situation and we know the historical territory of Álava well, we know that two patrols of Miñones is a very low number, and that the usual before was a higher number. In the face of extraordinary climatic situations, therefore, extraordinary media deployments by the Foral Diputación de Álava. What's going on? That now there are not enough troops for these patrols to be collaborating with the citizens, reaching those places that have been left incommunicado, carrying supplies, or simply controlling traffic and ensuring that all the citizens who leave, who need to go on the road these days, arrive at their destination. In the same way that this weekend we will meet with all the mountains and the high areas of the territory covered by a layer of snow, and, unfortunately, it is well known that this is the time when the poachers put on their boots and make their August, because they simply follow the tracks in the snow and skim our fauna. And there they probably won't be able to be, supporting the Forest Guard of the congress, the Minions, the Minions Section or the Minions Corps of the Álava Provincial Council, because it doesn't have just enough staff, and the GAMA group (the environmental police) has not been out on regular patrol for a long time, and that only does so from time to time. That is why, in December, we asked the security adviser here to see when the employment report for the Minones Section was to be completed, to reach the 100 staff of officers as envisaged in that RPT. And the counselor did not answer us clearly. He gave us an exhaustive account of all the material means, which are very necessary, with which the Minones Corps has been endowed, but we have little use for material means when what we lack are human means. And what we were asking was for the RPT to be effectively completed, especially given that in 2018 twenty-four agents will retire, we will count on twenty-four fewer agents, because they will access the well-deserved retirement that has been earned for years of service, and then the staff would remain around sixty (60 % of the total), which would prevent the effective development of the four working groups that it currently has assigned. And that is precisely why, given the government's lack of response when it was going to be completed and how it was going to ensure that all the working groups were in place, we are obliged today to present this initiative, which the majority of the House will support. Because we understand that we have reached an agreement that is a simple agreement and a necessary agreement. A simple agreement because, Commissioner, we do not ask for anything new, we do not ask for budget items that are difficult to access or do not exist; we simply ask that things continue to be done as they have been done so far. No one questions (on the contrary) the professionalism of the members of the Ertzaintza who serve in the Corps of Minones, and everyone agrees that their effectiveness at work is very high. And, therefore, what we are asking of you is that this may continue to be so. The answer was strong: "We lack agents within the Ertzaintza... because they will also be missing in the Corps of Minones. When we complete the agents of the Ertzaintza, we will complete the group of Minones." But, Commissioner, if immediate action is not taken, we would find that in December of this year there would be only 60% of the RPT of the Minones Corps, and we all know that the Ertzaintza in general will not be 60% of the agents. That is to say, in December this year we will not have an approximate number of 5,000 agents, but we will be much closer to completing the staff. What we were asking was for it to be completed equally. Well, he didn't want to answer us then, and today we bring him that initiative. Something, I insist, simple: that things continue to be done as they are. If they are given new functions, well, they have human and material means for these new functions. But, of course, the ones they have now that they can fulfill them. And a necessary deal. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, many social partners and different groups have been heard and have been talking for months about the precarious means of combating environmental crime. And you know well that the Ertzaintza has a group, a small section or a small working group that does precisely what it does is to fight..., more than anything, solve the complaints that are presented in those services. Prevention work cannot be done because there are no agents. And in that commission precisely what has been highlighted is the GAMA working group of the Corps of Minones, which I hope in the three territories we will have with those troops, with that preparation and with those means to achieve the same ends that were being achieved in Álava. Well, far from moving that example to other historical territories (Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia), what we do is not provide enough human resources for that environmental police to continue to perform their functions even in Álava. That is why we understand that this agreement we are asking for is a necessary agreement. And in addition – it is the last point of the agreement of the three groups, EH Bildu and Podemos with the Popular Group, the proposer – we ask that the hourly flexibility with which the Minones had so far be respected, so that in this way it can be an attractive body for other agents to request the transfer to that unit. We don't set you any dates, Counselor. We're asking him to do it, that's all. And to immediately cover the casualties that are being incurred by the most deserving retirement of all those agents who are going to retire, of the twenty-four who are going to do so, and also to cover the places that are not currently covered. I don't know if because the Álava Foral Diputation doesn't ask for it or because you can't or don't want to give it to it, but we urge you directly to do so, and we trust that, once it manifests itself, the parliamentary majority in this regard, you take the appropriate steps to ensure that we do not have to talk about this situation again from this rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As Mr Arbulo has already explained, the issue before us today is an initiative put forward by the Basque People's Group on the Section for Alava Minions. From Elkarrekin We can agree with the initial GNP in its first part, where it is urged to fulfil the commitment between institutions (the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava) to provide a coercive force for the relevant functions of the foral institution, so it is proposed to complete the staffing of the section of Minones de Álava up to the 100 troops foreseen in the RPT, to facilitate the management of the current tasks of the foral police of the historical territory of Álava. The disagreement arises when we talk about the functions and tasks to be carried out by the mines, which are more than those mentioned in the original proposal, relating to the environment and transport. In the view of our parliamentary group, as we point out in the amendment we are presenting, these functions should be expanded to include tasks of fiscal police, child protection, urban planning control and defence of historical heritage, according to the external competences in force. The origin of the Minones Corps dates back to the Lower Middle Ages, when in a context of severe socio-political conflict there took place the emergence of brotherhoods and brotherhood ordinances, whose mayor of brotherhood was in charge of exercising justice. For this purpose, he had one or two armed men for the maintenance of law and order throughout Alava, who received the name of the squadrons. The Minones Corps has always been a civilian body under the authority of the Foral Diputación de Álava, although at present, and after the Statute of Autonomy and with the creation of the autonomous police (the Ertzaintza), the Minones remain autonomous police until 1992, the year in which they are integrated into the Ertzaintza. From that moment they become one more section of the same, with double dependence: a functional dependence of the Foral Diputación de Álava, and an organic dependence of the Ertzaintza. Therefore, since the last promotion of minos, there have been no more promotions of minos proper since the 1980s, but they are all ertzainas, and then, depending on the merits obtained, you can opt to be part of the Corps of Minos. At present, the Minones Section provides its services in four areas of activity: environmental support area, transport and road inspection area, institutional security area, authorities and assets, and coordination centre with all departments of the parliament and with external emergency agencies. The body has remained exclusively from the provincial funds; its existence has been directly affected by their greater or lesser availability, resulting in the maintenance of a number or other of its components and even its disappearance and subsequent new creations, depending on the circumstances of the moment. As Mr Arbulo has already explained very well, we have reached an agreement by signing a compromise amendment together with the proposing group (PP) and EH Bildu, and, although we have tried to do so, we have not managed to reach a consensus with the government parties, which are going to maintain their amendment. The staff, as foreseen by the RPT of the Ertzaintza, is in fact 8,000 agents, of which there will currently be about 7,600, and every day less, counting pensions by age or disease, some deaths, counted surpluses, and some voluntary cessations or expulsions. It is also true that the renewal has had the difficulty of the legal viability of the calls, but not everything is the fault of the central Government. From the Ministry of Finance and Public Service (Mr. Montoro) and elsewhere (the Vice-President, the Government delegation in the Autonomous Community and other PP links with the Basque Nationalist Party) indicated to the Government what the formulas were for achieving this. The nationalist authorities did not want to implement it, when other austere policies have been followed in most of the activities of the lehendakari Urkullu. It was, once again, manipulation of the abertzale right for victimism vis-à-vis Madrid, and the result, as has been seen, has ended in an agreement when they were interested and could no longer endure the lack of agents in the current macrostructure. We cannot make a partisan use of the institutions, the Ertzaintza in this case. It is now a renewal that will take years to complete a template with more retirements than incorporations, in a divergent diachronic process. This lack of agents has an uneven impact on the Ertzaintza units: there are some that are more complete than others, depending on the priorities of the Basque Government. Moreover, given the institutional commitment to the Arab Foreign Ministry, we believe that these 100 agents should be fully completed. In addition, we propose that an adjustment be made, already training officers for the powers of fiscal police, in connection with the foral fiscal inspection, which is essentially administrative and that it pursues little through the penal way (the rich make complementary and the losers go to jail); another one that is of function of protection of minors, that nowadays there is a problem; of control of urbanism in the foral planning and regulation, and in the defense of the historical-artistic heritage, of the foral field also. It would be necessary to study the outside competencies in depth, together with their departmental structure, to analyze the direct police needs, thinking not of the expansion of police intervention, but of the effective persecution of transgressions that harm the public interest in promoting the social good. As we have already said, the functions should be extended to include tax police (about 10 officers), protection of minors (twenty), and historical heritage (six agents), at least to a more complete review of the outsourced competences likely to specify a direct coercive capacity. While we want to highlight, as specified in the agreed amendment, the need to strengthen the environmental support group GAMA, a specialized group of minions in Álava dedicated to ensuring the good state of our natural environment. Toxic spills, furtivism, misuse of natural spaces, are just some of the problems they face in their day-to-day life, along with other infringements that violate the care and conservation of wildlife and environmental diversity in Euskadi. Finally, I would like to mention that working conditions remain flexible; to call for the extension of the functions to the members of Parliament, who are competent, and to insist on the proper management of the service, in order to protect the public interest and the social good, and that from the training, knowledge and closeness and collaboration with the citizenry we continue to ensure the rural and natural world in the three territories that make up our autonomous community. It is essential that from the institutions we take care of our environment and our heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u72	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. I wish to treat this dispute by a view of necessity and means, from a mere principle of economy, finite necessities, and finite means of fulfilling them, and in this I shall move myself in my explanation. For I think we ought to consider how certain they are, in this case Araban, and what means or means they would now be to oppose it. We know that the crime rate of the Araba has increased in the last year, except %1,7, and other circumstances or other causes besides human resources, as well as those of tas to rise, and then we should have to consider this calmly. I shall not, therefore, speak in a general manner, but I shall place this subject in a particular matter, and the means which Mityan possesses to pursue the crimes and mistakes of environments, and to complete this jurisdiction. We're discussing the institution, the Security and the Governor's Committee, the petty crime and fault-related persecution, research problems, lack detection and inadequate repression. We are quite agreed on the arrival of such conclusions. It's also explained to us by teams, associations, organizations, experts, and technicians. And the detection of this necessity compels us to speak of resources, technical, formal, and personal resources, to accommodate ourselves to these crimes and mistakes of environments. And we know that there are some resources in the Araban, besides those which are not in the other countries, the Mitokians. And they are not enough, as they say, because they probably need more human resources to oppose these crimes of environment. But we're worried that these few resources are not full today. I'll try to explain it with a syllogism. Environmental crimes are not properly prosecuted. The Minones Corps has eight members of the Environmental Support Group, few of them in themselves; if they are less, environmental crimes will be pursued even worse, even more deficient, even more precariously. Therefore, a question of need for action, among others, but primarily of environmental offences and infringements and insufficient resources, and, according to some data they are offering us, increasingly scarce and increasingly precariously covered. I think this is the problem we face. In the explanations given by Mrs Beltrán de Heredia in the inquiry of Mr Ruiz de Arbulo a couple of months ago, after a lot of explanations about investments in uniforms, defenses, protections, vehicles, training needs – which, on the one hand, had not been claimed, and which, on the other hand, was all covered – she came to the clarification that was asked about how many agents were completing the RPT and whether the RPT was covered. And Mrs Beltrán de Heredia said that the job relationship states that there must be a hundred endowments, and that, be clear, "it has neither changed nor will change, because we see no reason for it." It won't even change. Looks like that's the hook for the initiative we're bringing in today. I do not know whether it will perhaps be necessary to amend it, in the light of the debate, of the discussion that we are having in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Governance, because perhaps those shortcomings that are being pointed out to us there do indicate that they should be modified, but never downwards. These staff resources should, in any case, be adjusted upwards. And I would point out that, depending on the needs identified in this debate in the committee, it may well be that the department needs more resources, but not new ones, but perhaps by detracting from other services that are better covered or that may not have so much priority. Because precisely governing we understand that it is deciding on priorities. As for the numbers, Beltran de Heredia effectively explained that they would be a hundred, but it did not clear the forecast for the future, the fluctuation that would be in the future. He explained that the overall vacancy rate in Ertzaintza is 7%, and that in the Minones Corps this rate was similar. But it seems that the numbers do not conclude with this statement. Beltran de Heredia said that the staff was ninety-two then, in December, and there was a prospect that two others would retire. The data are easy to do: over 100, that means that the vacancy rate would be 10%, higher than that 7% of Ertzaintza. In February 2017 Ramiro González, deputy general of Álava, responded, very angry in addition, to the PP when he brought this point, saying that there were eighty-eight agents, 12% casualties, which already almost doubles that 7% of the Ertzaintza. Mr Arbulo said that retirements would bring down to sixty. I do not know, but the point is that that point has not been discussed either. If there are 60 per cent (i.e. 40 per cent vacancies), let's compare with that 7 per cent vacancy in the Ertzaintza. And that is precisely another of the issues that we do not understand, and that is why it is submitted or conditioned to cover these casualties of the Minons to reach the 8,000 troops in the Ertzaintza, because I do not see why. For us, it is not a question of meeting that number, as if it were an emblematic number, as if it were a totem, an end in itself, because they also know that we think that, having changed the security needs in this country, with fewer troops the current ones could be met. For us, the question is precisely where to invest those resources, what needs to be met. And it is proving that the security needs covered by the Minons are real. Resources, specifically in the environment, are still scarce, and we believe that they should not be subject to the completion of the Ertzaintza template. And it seems that this is precisely the point at which the groups supporting the Government were not prepared to reach a compromise, to which the opposition groups, on the other hand, have arrived, which I hope will be approved, and we will also ensure that it is complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u74	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative presented by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo creates a first doubt for me, and it is whether we are really before a motion or we are before a riddle. If he went before a riddle, he lacks the rhyme, and, therefore, perhaps in his reply intervention he can improve it. In fact, we are not faced with a problem that arises with the question that makes the counselor, but that already for the past year and year you at the General Councils of Álava have been insisting on this matter. They asked the deputy general, they asked the security adviser, and they both explained to him in all detail what was going on and how it could be resolved. You had it perfectly detailed in the different interrogations. The target of 100 million is an objective that is in the employment relationship, is an irrevocable objective on the part of this Government; moreover, the way to solve it is through public offers of employment. As you well know, these have been involved for many years in the political action that you are taking in Spain regarding the freezing of the staff. And that, to the extent that this target of 8,000 is reached, where the number of ertzainas is estimated and agreed between the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, to the extent that the 8,000 are met, the number of minions can be met. And also, in order to be more detailed, he was explained how they were being provided, as they were retiring and as vacancies were being created in the Minones Section, how they were provided, and he was already explained that it was an agreement with the unions, on a number of merits, in relation to a criterion of antiquity, etc. I mean, you had absolutely everything to have the corresponding explanations, to know what the procedure was to reach this goal. Well, still, you wanted to insist on converting that inquiry.... That sometimes you wonder what the interrogations are for, because, once you have been satisfied with what you are asking, if you still want to maintain the initiative, then it is almost much better to come directly to a GNP. We save ourselves time, and we don't have to be here giving a crap. But, well, you raise the motion, and the motion in a certain way is not wrong in origin. It is an improvement, and that is precisely why we are making an amendment, because it is an improvement, but it is an improvement which is very much in line with what you are proposing and which is also very much in line with what the Member-General and also the Security Adviser had previously explained to you. Well, that's all more or less fine, but suddenly you enter a ceremony of confusion, with this amendment that says it's transactional, that I don't know what it deals with, because if you hear the speeches they look like an egg to a chestnut, yours to Podemos and Bildu's. But, well, you probably have the opportunity to better explain to us what elements bind you, and perhaps so we will come, albeit without rhyme, to clarify what is the riddle to which you have wanted us to submit. But look, you get, as I say, into that ceremony of confusion, and then, on the one hand, strangely poses the reference of the Ertzaintza, who knows that this is a totem for Bildu. He knows that Bildu is about to drastically reduce the number of ertzains, he knows that it poses a reduction of more than 25%, which says that there are agents left in the Basque Country. That's why you tell him that in order to reach an agreement, he needs to remove the term Ertzaintza. Anyway, I imagine the only way to provide the Minos Corps in its hundredth figure will be with ertzainas. It is therefore doubtful, difficult to understand this alliance with whom he is only concerned, in the area of safety, the environment, that there are ertzainas on all sides, and that, however, with you he agrees, on condition that he removes the reference to the Ertzaintza, in support of the objective of the hundred. In addition, in this compromise amendment, you propose that the foreign parliament has self-organisation and that, therefore, the minions will be what the foreign parliament has, as if security were not unique in the Basque Country, beyond the fact that there is a section of minions with certain competences. But you accept, in order to arrive at that transaction and to be able to differentiate yourself from the government, from which you seem to want to differentiate at the expense of anything, you accept that term of self-organization But, well, like you, what matters most is to differentiate yourself from the government, so you agree to introduce that term which is absolutely confusing, totally inappropriate from someone who represents a political option that usually carries this sort of very orderly and organized things. And yet, the Minones Corps will have the powers that, according to the self-organisation of the parliament, it wants to derive over it. Finally, an absolutely absurd approach. And it also raises an element of work flexibility that no one knows what it is. You have spoken here timidly about the schedule. Well, indeed, The one who's going to do certain environmental work doesn't go out at night, goes out for the day... Well, the hours are adjusted by the department as reasonable, according to the needs and according to what times of the day each thing has to be done. And that is why flexibility exists, but it is a flexibility that is reasonably organized, is resolved by the organization of the Department of Security itself. Well, all that was perfectly established and perfectly ordered; however, you have preferred this alliance, which, I say, leads you nowhere, leads you to confusion. And I have the feeling that this matter has finally ended up going hand in hand, I don't know if by playing an appearance of more alavesist than anyone else, to be more lauded than Celedon, or if it has been to play with feelings, with the Minones Corps, with forality..., in short, with this kind of thing that you have been tormenting for many years and that you remember much those sophlamas of Alavesa Unity, more than a game that, in the end, usually carries the matter of security as very measured, as very tied, as very rigid. And yet here you spread it and already enter into considerations and concepts that you in this rostrum would be unable to concretely determine. Faced with that, you will understand that we have had the need to maintain the amendment... (Receive advice, give him time... That's right, you've already been instructed.) Finally, we have had the need to maintain the amendment, because in the amendment it is perfectly delimited that we want there to be a hundred, that we want there to be public offers of employment, that we want there to be 8,000 agents, and that to that extent they will be covered. And that the skills are already resolved, that we know which are those of the Minons, and that the organization of security is the responsibility of the Department of Security. This, which you should embrace, because you know that it is logic and reasonableness in a governing party, because today, by some unrhyme divination, you have entangled it. And, well, explain it. If you have more explanation, explain it, but above all explain it to yours, because I think yours understand absolutely nothing, to the point that, when I am questioning you for what you have done, everyone jumps to give you ideas in case you leave something.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u75	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, chief departments, members of the legislature, all good noon. During the entire meeting in December 1st, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo joined the head of the Security department about the Miño Section on the Border. At the words of the chief physician, we thought it was enough to satisfy the concern of the interpelration, but it seems to be no. In fact, he introduced a motion of the same kind, and that's what we're dealing with today. once more. Gure ustez, salilburuaren weretzuna erabatekoa izan zen. And she went further: she expressed commitments and respect for the Minions, both personally and also as head of the department of the Basque Government, of the Department of Security. In fact, the Miñones are a symbol of Araba, loved by the Alavesa society, with total root in the territory, of foreign origin, with a unique nature and regime, whose identity signs were perfectly reflected in the Statute of Autonomy and the Basque Police Act. And our party – and therefore this parliamentary group and also the Basque Government – knows and respects the particular institutional organization that Araba has, and that is why the Miñones. You, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, were concerned and seem to be still concerned that the squares of Miñones are covered. The Councillor has already replied on 1 December, and we say again in the amendment that we agree that the Minones Section should be completed to the 100 troops it currently has in the RPT, in the employment relationship. But this as the Ertzaintza template is being covered, because it cannot be otherwise. The total coverage of the 100 troops of the Minons can only be conditioned to the OPEs of the Ertzaintza. In addition, the Government also expressed its unwillingness to modify the 100 troops of the RPT, which was another of its concerns. And when? when is this coverage given that you insisted so much on? He was already answered: there will be a hundred minions when there are 7,900 ertzainas. And why this condition? For it is evident: because, as you know, the Minons are part of Ertzaintza. The Ertzaintza, including the Minones, has been a unique body since January 1, 93 through the Basque Police Act, which we cannot forget from time to time. They are part of the Ertzaintza, and therefore the Minônes depend organically on the Basque Government for the purposes, for example, of working conditions and provision. And on the other hand they have, as you know, functional dependence on the parliament. Thus, the employment situation, working conditions and their provision cannot be analysed in any case apart from those of the Ertzaintza. They can't be untied. As far as working conditions were concerned, you were referring to... The original initiative did not refer to anything about working conditions; however, now, in the transactional you have signed, you make a reference to working conditions. The working conditions of the Minons are those of the Ertzaintza. They are subject to the Regulatory Agreement on the Working Conditions of Ertzaintza, by the way, the result of collective bargaining. And you now include the word "flexibility of working conditions", which we do not know what "flexibility in working conditions" means. It is true that it has been surprising to us, especially on your part, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. It is a question that Bildu raised, but "flexibility in working conditions"... The amendment expressly puts "working conditions", and you are now talking only about hours. It is true that hours are part of working conditions, but in the amendment that you have signed you speak of working conditions. What's that? That's indeterminate. And who, and you. Not being subject to the rule and asking for flexibility is surprising to us. In any case, the working conditions of the Minônes, the Ertzaintza and any official are regulated, and that is definitely what gives legal certainty and what also makes it possible to ensure a good functioning in the services. Therefore, creating false expectations or inventions is dangerous. As for the retirements you have appointed, we are fully aware that retirements are going to occur. Pensions are going to occur in the Minones, pensions are going to occur in the Ertzaintza, and in the rest of the public administrations. As we have commented in many debates, it is a challenge for all public administrations to face the generational relief. And yes, we are aware that in the Miñones this circumstance is going to be given equal with a greater incidence, due to the particular circumstances: being antiquity a preferential merit for their access, therefore the average age is high. You have said that twenty-four retirements are planned for 2018, we believe there are twenty-three. In any case, we are aware, people are going to retire, of course, and the government will provide solutions. He said there's also a shortage of troops, I don't know who, who's much older, who don't get their socks out... I think it's in the middle. At this time, yesterday, on 7 February, there were eighty-nine troops. See, it's 89%. There are some Ertzaintza units that have more and there are others that have less, but it is not in a worse situation than the rest of the Ertzaintza units. And of course it cannot be sold that there is an abandonment, because there is a continuous maintenance of troops. In recent years they have been renewing, they have been incorporating minions, this is not left, and that average (89, 90, 92...) is the one that has been maintained in the last decade, even in other times, with other outside governments as well. That average has been constant. As far as the provision of jobs is concerned, you want to be permanently detached from the OPEs. We understand that this is the ultimate solution. They've been talking about some... that the government is looking for other formulas. "Other formulas", I don't know, we understand they will be provisional, but the government must ensure an adequate balance between the units. It is true that we can go to commissions of service, which in fact go and will continue to go, but it is not the definitive solution. The definitive solution, the hundred troops, will arrive with the OPE, because we cannot empty, or we must not empty a unit or other units because the Minions have to have one hundred. Of course they will have a hundred, but when the rest are also complete. And the Government must maintain an overall vision, it must have a country balance, and it must ensure that balance. And as far as the delay is concerned, there's been talk of a delay... The final solution will come with the incorporations, and in the incorporations there has been a delay that you all know what it is: the resources put forward by Madrid, that your party has part, or much, or all responsibility for this. The OPEs have been blocked, and from that you say "No, it's that the veto has already been lifted." Well, the veto has been lifted, but the recovery is late, it's a process, and that damage that has caused that blockade has also been suffered by the Minons. He has been a general; he has suffered from Ertzaintza, but also the Minons. As we see, the department cares and deals with the Minons, as well as the rest of the Ertzaintza units. He's concerned about personnel issues... And although you, Mr Arzuaga, said that the adviser in the inquiry spoke of the material means when no one had asked you, if you went over the question of the inquiry if you were wondering about the material means. And the counselor too... Note that a sign of interest in this body is that in addition to personal resources are also dedicated material means, such as uniform, renovation of the mobile park... Therefore, there is a concern and an occupation in it. On the other hand, you have wanted to focus part of the debate on the functions performed by the Minions. As you know, the Minons are functionally dependent on the Foral Division of Alava, which is the one that organizes and distributes internal issues in relation to these functions. This special regime leads to the need for permanent coordination between the Foral Chamber of Álava and the Basque Government, and maintains it, in relation to the Minions. In relation to the environmental protection tasks, which you have insisted on, it is true that you have the competence, as the other three, which we consider to be all important, and that of the environment also has to be said, as the councilwoman told you, that it does not depend exclusively on the Minônes in Álava, which is a shared competence with other sections, with other units of the Ertzaintza, with the forest and environmental guards of the parliament, with the Environmental Prosecutor's Office... It is therefore a shared competence. Doesn't mean that... Well, we recognize the work and professionalism with which the Minions perform this function, as well as the rest of the functions. For this reason, we share the need to complete the Minones Section up to 100 troops (the firm commitment of the Basque Government), all in so far as the rest of the Ertzaintza's staff are also being covered, without being able to untangle one thing from another for the reasons set out above. We will therefore only support our amendment. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the answers, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrauri, if we have added to this debate today the working conditions and we ask that the flexibility that existed within the timetable be maintained, and this issue was not discussed in December, it is because it was in January when these changes took place. Not all Ertzaintza agents have the same calendar, not all have the same working groups, and the Minones Section had a way of working until 31 December, and has varied. It's different right now. And that new formula that has been put in place has not been made in agreement with the workers' representatives, and they do not like it, because it makes the Minones Section much less attractive for the Ertzaintza agents who can choose to ask for their place there, once they meet the rest of the requirements. That's why we're interested in that old system being respected. It's that simple. You yourself gave us the data that yesterday there were eighty-nine minions on the staff, of the one hundred that there should be. That 11 % missing to cover is far from 7, and, whether twenty-three or twenty-four retirements for this year, brings us closer to a 35-40% rate, which is far more than 7 % away from the rest of the Ertzaintza units. And that is precisely why we have brought this initiative here today, to ask the Government to put an end to this situation. I am very sorry to have disappointed you, Mr. Prieto, and that my initiative seems to you to be a riddle or a gallimatia. You have not let me down the least; indeed, you have brought to my memory those old times in which we were debating at the general meetings (by the way, with two minions at the door of the hall of plenary). I am not going to go into that provocative style of your interventions, and I would like to bring you precisely to the contrary, which is common sense. Common sense is what has brought these three groups together to try to move this initiative forward. Three groups that have a completely different vision of what the police are, but have agreed that, please, in the Minones Section, things should continue to be done as they have so far and that they should have the necessary staff to carry out their duties. Simpler, impossible. What do I miswrite and make it incomprehensible to you to write the transaction? Well, it's possible. I pick up the glove, and I'll try to write better next time and in a clearer way, but that's the explanation I give you. And you're in time to vote, because I'm sure that you're worried, and a lot, about the Minos Corps situation, and you're worried, and a lot, that you can't perform your duties because of lack of staff. I therefore urge you, Mr Prieto, to vote in favour of the compromise agreement that, thanks to the flexibility of Mr Arzuaga and Mrs García, we have arrived between the three groups. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. The representative of the Podemos group together, Mrs. García must not speak. From EH Collect, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u80	Yes, very briefly, because Mr Prieto said "undeniable objective", 100 posts of the RPT. What's the matter? It's just that he doesn't feel sorry for what you guys are doing. you are saying in your amendment, because you that come to say that they conform with the 7 % vacant. What you are saying is that you assume that there is at least 7% vacancy, because, as they say that this is the one in the Ertzaintza, they also transfer it to the Minones staff. At least, I say, because in reality Mrs Larrauri was telling us that it is 11%, but, I say again, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has been talking about the retirements that they have to face, he said that this staff can stay in a 60, and no one beats him! And that makes sense, Mr. Prieto. It may not be a revolutionary motion, but what we are saying is that we do not accept either 11% or 7%, and we accept only zero percent of vacancies, because they provide a service. And it is true that some of us have pointed out, and in one service we have more interest than in another, and for us, I say again, it is environmental crimes, because it is very precariously attended to. And if this template looks even smaller on top of it, it's going to get worse. And when it is true that the different and the opposite agree, the question is why you have had the difficulty to agree with us, when, moreover, at first at least, you had the will to do so. I'm done. Mr. Prieto tells us this doesn't lead anywhere. Well, but it is a majority decision that this House is going to take. And Mrs. Larrauri also said that this is the situation and that it happens in all units of the Ertzaintza... And if Mr Ruiz de Arbulo and I have something in common, it is that we have seen some other decisions that have been taken in this House against the government's decision and then have not been put into practice. And what I want to highlight is that today we have made a decision, and it is a hundred members, or effective, in the RPT of the Minions Staff, and that it be carried out. And when I have finished the previous intervention I said that we will ensure that this is carried out, because, I say again, we have past experiences in which one thing has been decided and another thing has been done, and I think that cannot happen. It is a majority decision, it is a decision of this Parliament, and it does not accept situations or contexts, or conform to other circumstances, be they Ertzaintza or any other body. Let's make a decision. I hope it's done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u82	The CEO. Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, don't get angry or angry, have a tangent a little more fit. I have questioned you a number of things that later you have been unable to answer here. Listen, if I ask him and he doesn't answer, I'll finally ask him, and if he gets angry or angry, what is the sense of provocateur? I think you've just wanted to raise a flag, like you're the best defenders of the Minos in Alava, and that's why you've served any escort. Your goal was to have a majority with that flag, but for that you've had to leave many hairs on the gurney. You've had to hide the Ertzaintza, because you don't make that reference. I tell you, why is the transactional amendment hiding from Ertzaintza? Because there is a demand from Bildu to be able to reach agreement and to be able to reach that majority. Because they do not agree that there are 8,000 ertzainas, and you, however, do. You agree, but since you care more than anything to disagree with the Government, you agree not to make that mention, nor to make that target of 8,000. And that also eases their responsibility for having been freezing staff and for having been freezing public employment for many years because of their disastrous policy in the Spanish government. And that's why today there are safety deficiencies in many sections, and among them in the body of Miñones, because there are hundreds of casualties. If Mr Arzuaga told you in his speech here! If he's really left... - No, no, no, I mean, it's not that he's short on minions, the problem is that he's got ERTzainas left. But there are not one or ten left, there are at least 2,000 left, and, as there are 2,000 left, it seems to you that there are one hundred million who are solely and fundamentally responsible, as you have said in your speech, for the environmental aspects. Because it is clear that there is a lack of research and there are gaps in the environmental aspects, and in so many crimes that have been done before and that are not being clarified, and that they are still open and alive. For those, too, there is a lack of investigation. But if it were for Mr Arzuaga, if it was for Bildu, even the same, they would even be willing to accept that there were two hundred or five hundred minions for environmental crimes, but that there were no ertzainas. And we all know why. And you enter that account, and you agree to hide the word Ertzaintza And this is a political irresponsibility that you do, and I tell you. Does that sound like a provocation to you? Well, all right, I don't care exactly. But it's irresponsible what you do. And when you say in the amendment and assume in the amendment that the outlaw parliament can be self-organised in security matters you do an act of irresponsibility, because the outlaw parliament cannot self-organise security, because it is a department's competence. And the outside body has already established its powers: in environmental matters, in transport matters, in institutional security and in the coordinating body. You know they're there, and yet you have to make a concession with Podemos, who also talks about taxation, talks about this and the other, and even goes into contradiction between officials of different types and functions. But you don't care, because you want to continue to disagree with the government. And this is an element of irresponsibility. And you talk about working flexibility in an open sense, to be nice to trade unions, or to minions, or you don't know with whom, but actually hourly flexibility, or work flexibility, is an organizational element that is also established by Parliament. So, here today there may be a majority who approve a text, but it is a text that is impossible to put into practice, and you know it. But, still, he wanted to keep it for having this discrepancy with the Government. Is this a provocation? I don't think so, but if you get angry and angry, I'm willing to invite you to a muffin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u83	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u84	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the topic of the schedule you focus on, I repeat that you do not put the schedule in the transaction. He talks about working conditions in general, and amazing flexibility. When you tell us that the schedule is a taxed schedule... it's not a taxed schedule, you should get better information. And there has been no other proposal by the trade union, with which it is an accepted proposal and it is a proposal... It is an accepted proposal. In addition, the current schedule, which is currently regulated, ensures a good functioning of the service. Another thing is that there may be subjective or personal issues, of preference, that make others prefer another schedule, but, of course, it is a schedule that ensures the proper functioning of the service. And I insist that you expand your sources, or tune them up, because they are very biased. As far as pensions are concerned, of course, we have not denied that there will be pensions, Mr Arzuaga. We haven't denied there's going to be retirements. Jubilees are going to be and will be covered, as have been covered those that have been so far. In recent years there have been twenty-seven service fees to cover retirements, provided that they have not been permanently covered through the new additions. And there will continue to be service commissions, but what we say is that it is not the right solution. Because you speak, says Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, of "other ways". The OPE is not the form, "other forms". And what's the formula? He didn't say it! She didn't say it because there isn't. What is the final coverage formula for staff positions? Transfer competitions and OPEs. And the provisionality... When you talk about service commissions, what are you proposing?, provisionality? Bildu what are you proposing?, provisionality in the administration, when in other debates we are constantly hearing that that is the evil, the challenge to...? Are you proposing provisionality? Propose it! But propose it properly. And, on the other hand, what unit do we empty? What unit do we empty to bring the Minos, so that in the Minos there will be a hundred until there is OPE? What unit? The Gasteiz police station, the Laudio police station, the Laguardia police station... I just don't know which one to empty! As you said yesterday, Mrs. García, on a commission I remembered, undressing one saint to dress another, right? Well, man, it's not your thing. In any case, what has brought them together... This time there was no agreement because you didn't want to... Just like Elkarrekin We can go on the other hand, but the People's Party and EH Bildu have not wanted to reach an agreement with us because they have been conditioned to keep appearing, to keep being linked to the Ertzaintza OPEs, and you can't stand that. They can't stand it, and there hasn't been agreement just for that. And they have disguised it with other issues, but there has been no agreement because we have insisted that it was a condition that could not be renounced, that was conditioned to the OPE of Ertzaintza. And you couldn't help it. And as far as interim solutions are concerned, I do not know whether Mr Ruiz de Arbulo also wants me to make an OPE of Minones, to make it a deputy. I don't know, I think this debate is out of date. You, with all the questions you raise, in the end what you want to see is that the Minones Section is separate and independent. That debate is an old debate, which has come to this Parliament on numerous occasions, and has also been dealt with in general meetings. That debate is overtaken and should be overtaken. And as for the functions, well, before I forgot to comment on Mrs García, I think that, from here let's say what functions the Minons should have, to make an extension of functions... His amendment was delicate. And, Mr. Arzuaga, the Minons are Ertzaintza. We already know that they do not want to expand the staff of the Ertzaintza, but the Minons are Ertzaintza, and it has joined them that, to PP and EH Bildu has joined them, we do not know whether for the same reason or for another, therefore, the rejection of the Ertzaintza. In any case, you were asking when and how the squares are going to be covered, which I was asking you..., which seems to have been disguised with other questions now, in your interpellation it said "Madam Counsellor, the only thing I ask you is when and how the squares are going to be covered." For we have already given that answer: when there are 7,900 ertzainas, there will be a hundred minions. In any case, we repeat, we reiterate the commitment of the Basque Government to complete the number of troops up to the 100 currently planned as there are new additions. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Euskal populars, one half-direction signed by Podemos and EH Collectorn. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u86	So, since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-08.u87	Since it's a draw, we'll leave it for the next pleno. I'll read you an institutional statement next. The institutional expression of protecting the peace process of Colombia. "In January, a delegation of the Basque Rights and the Community Committee, together with the Basque Mayors and representatives of social institutions, within the program of protecting the defenders of the Basque Rights, made a trip to Colombia, and ended by a champion of human rights in that country. "We had been able to verify on this journey the challenges and difficulties of peace before the proceedings of peace, and to keep the peace of Havana and the efforts of the table at Quieto. "Orductations had several meetings and connections with several political institutions, with social and social institutions, in Colombia, to appreciate the guarantee and protection which human rights and defenders of those rights have to be. "In this manner, and in the presence of the uneasiness which has been sent to us by the several companies of the citizens of Colombia, the Basque parliament repeats its protection to the treaty of Peace signed by the Colonia and by FARC in November 2016. "It is well known that both parties have engaged a difficult task, and that they wish to encourage them to fulfil the agreement which they have made, and to establish a lasting and continuous peace, by placing the victims in the centre of this trial. "The Basque Parliament recalls the recent appeal of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, regarding the cessation of armed actions and the resumption of a serious and constructive dialogue between the Government of Colombia and the ELN, as well as to resume efforts to agree on a renewal and strengthening of the ceasefire, thus preventing the return to the conflict and protecting the humanitarian achievements achieved in the last three months. "He urges the Spanish Government and the Basque people to work with the Colombian Government to take more effective measures to ensure the safety of groups and communities in particular at risk, such as indigenous peoples and Afro-descendant and peasant communities, as well as human rights defenders and political leaders. "It urges the Spanish Government to support the UN observation mission with a human rights component that complements the role of the office in Colombia of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, whose role in monitoring and reporting needs to be strengthened. "It expresses its concern about the lack of institutionality in the areas previously controlled by FARC-EP, which is causing serious security problems for the citizens of those territories and difficulties in the implementation of the peace agreements. "He insists on making him more popular with a number of organizations and organisms working on the peace process in Colombia, with the Committee of Truth, and with the United Nations in particular special terms. In the same way, he insists on Rede Buge to continue working with all his programmes and activities and equipment, and, above all, strengthening the tools of development and a temporary protection of human rights, to strengthen and strengthen the Colombian organization for human rights. "When you remember the historical connection with Colombia and that country to make peace, and to continue this process, the Basque parliament allows us to form a team in favour of the Colonia trial." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was fourteen o'clock in the afternoon.
