ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "A 2017-year-old copy of the interrogation, 208th of the Chamber's Rule. the article goes on." By following the 208th article of the Chamber's Rule, the first Aridria must present a summary of the report; for that purpose the word is expressed by the Arlia. Mr. Lezera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u1	Good morning, Mr. President of the legislature, sit down at table, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, comrades of the Government. Good morning. Really, it's an honor to me to appear every year in this Redse American Union and to the owners of the Basque Country. This year, in order to briefly explain the contents of the usual report of 2017. I come, you know, with great pleasure before the representatives of the Basque People; for, after all, the Alemania is the high messenger of the Parliament. On the 30th of May, I stood before the Human Rights and the Committee of Equality to make him know this report. During this apparition I made a quantum analysis of the smokes which the people had made last year to the intermediary of the people, and I briefly explained the performances of this organization. Therefore, in front of the whole Union, I must not exactly describe all the activities of the intermediary, which belong to each of our 28 areas, and to the Office of Children and Nerves. Then, considering the best protection of the rights of men, I shall only show some of the most important points of the opinion of this institution in public administration and public political policies, which, especially today, have been effected in favor of weak groups. In any case, before we reach the substance of my performance directly, I would like to mention at least the most significant general data that the Arctic work last year was to be placed in the context. As a matter of fact, we broke all the marks in 2017 years. All the activities related to serving the villagers and inspecting the administration were 13,500. The attention of the people, and of the activities relating to the inspection of the administration, is referred to almost 10,000 kexes. Besides, we opened thirty-six file files to examine the progress and trade, and answered three hundred questions that demanded information and direction. We had 78 meetings with organizations and 80 meetings with the administration. On the whole, the international activity has increased 22% of 2016 years, which would have to increase the growth of 23% of 2016-that is to say, 45% increases the activity of the intermediary for the last two years. In the 88 cases of 88% the influence of the administration has altered and altered its activity, it has generally been unnecessary to accept the proposal of the interrogation by the administration. This data has been the highest of the years we've been studying and shows clearly that the intervention of the intermediary is actually effective. The Basque Administration generally succeeds in taking the recommendations and recommendations of the Arlias, which is undoubtedly a laudable position, which gives perfect meaning to the work of this institution. As I already said in Basque, I consider it preferable this year, rather than repeating all the actions in relation to all the areas of work that Ararteko is dealing with, to refer briefly to some of the most significant issues that in my opinion have affected throughout 2017 the enjoyment of citizens' rights. I would therefore like to refer to some of the issues which I consider to be of particular relevance. Problems affecting children and adolescents, the equality and integrity of women, the social inclusion of disadvantaged persons, a specific problem that has become very relevant this past year, which has been occurring in the education of adults. I will also address the issue of shelter and shelter. I will give a brief reflection on prison policy and finally mention the initiatives deployed by the institution of Ararteko at European and international level. The number of Ararteko files showing the presence of children and adolescents reached 478 in 2017, about 16% of the total number of complaints filed with the institution. This institution maintains a cross-cutting perspective on children, an approach based essentially on respect for the rights of children and adolescents and more specifically on the effective safeguarding of the best interests of the child. As you know, the best interests of the child and his/her right to be heard are the key to the paradigm shift introduced by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. the consideration of the child as a holder, as a subject of rights. However, this consideration is still scarcely present in the various areas when decisions are taken affecting children and adolescents, except perhaps in the social services system, especially those relating to unprotected children, where increasing attention is being paid to safeguarding these rights. In general, however, there remains a worrying lack of awareness of the validity of the rights of boys and girls, which are not implemented or incorporated into sectoral regulations. Nor, therefore, are sufficient efforts made – in our view – to train professionals working or interacting with children to provide adequate attention to these rights. And yet, as early as 2014, four years ago, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child issued a general comment on the best interests of the child, according to which it is a triple concept in which, in addition to the principle of interpretation, its validity is of particular relevance as a rule of procedure, which requires assessing in each decision that will affect a child or adolescent or a group of them, what the impact of the decision will be on their lives. This issue that seems simple to explain, but which, I admit, is difficult to apply, is what we try to analyze from the Ararteko Office of Children and Adolescents in each case. One of the areas that is relevant and urgent is precisely that of income guarantee policies. A recent analysis of deprivation indicators included for the first time in the Basque poverty and social inequalities survey of 2016, highlighted the significant impact of poverty and precariousness on Basque children and adolescents. It shows that poverty-related deficiencies and other forms of lack of well-being, even the most serious, are not completely eradicated among the smaller population, even in a territory such as the Basque country with an income guarantee system comparable to the most developed in the European Union. In this sense, considering all minors in Euskadi between 1 and 15 years of age, 10.4% still suffer from certain deprivation problems and up to 3.5% if they are considered exclusively the most serious forms of deprivation, for example, access to protein food every day, daily access to fruit, vegetables; provision of suitable footwear... For all this and again, Ararteko endorses the words of the author of this study to which I am referring, when he points out that "society needs to become aware of what poverty and other forms of lack of well-being really means for the equal opportunities of new generations of children and adolescents. We are certainly talking about the generational transmission of poverty." The Euscadian family and the investment strategy of childhood proposes this formula, in order to respond to the want of child, which is a phenomenon of multiple dimensions, or to the lack of equality, and I mean literally: "The management of the family and childhood police, and in this circle the better integration of social education, the social service, education, and health services of the country."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u3	The intermediary has been strongly insisted on in various solutions, reports, and examinations, in order to integrate the policies of social education, the need to share the work above mentioned systems, and to treat it as close and prevention in the community, which is the key to poverty, protection, and, in a word, to prevent social circumstances. The right to be heard is still too strict to follow the rules of existence, which have been said from 12 years ago, that is to say, when they are heard, from 12 years old, the children are listened to. Besides, even when listening to the child is considered as a duty, it is generally done as an adult in time and place. That in the quality of hearing, and therefore not considering the effect of the child's opinion or decision. It is not in accordance with the result of the effective development of children, and the less the child is, the situation becomes more and more serious. In recent years, in fact, certain movements have been produced. In these cases the voice of the boys is taken notice of by the decision of public municipal affairs, in the midst of various undertakings (some of them, in the net of the City of Children, excited by Unicef's friends) some municipals are preparing organizations and dynamics to be shared by children and teenagers. That's why I'm asking for more real and stable ways of getting involved, times that are directed to listen to children and teenagers, suitable contrivances, attractive methods and all. They must be assured that the minors participate in the different areas which affect their life. I shall now turn to the issue of the equality and integrity of women. Regrettably, macho violence has suffered a resurgence in the State over the past year. In Euskadi it has also left painful sequels: two women killed by their partners or ex-partners: Ana Belén, resident in Álava and appeared murdered in Miranda de Ebro; and Noelia Noemi, of Sestao. In addition to these data, two other Gipuzcoana women were killed in Madrid and Extremadura. Basque society has shown that it does not tolerate any kind of violence against women, and today I would like to pay a small tribute to these known victims and so many others unknown and to welcome the firmness of the Basque social reaction against gender-based violence. Following the state pact agreed by a broad consensus in 2017, reforms and new measures have been announced in the state plan to eliminate this scourge. Unfortunately, it has not yet materialized. However, Euskadi must move forward with care and determination in this area, exercising all its powers, regardless of the progress of the proposed reforms at the state level. The new framework created by this pact, as well as the European priorities against gender-based violence and for victims, provide an opportunity to put forward measures in the Basque area that will improve the response of our institutions. In this context, it is particularly necessary to renew the commitment of all the signatory institutions to the interinstitutional agreement in force in Euskadi, proposing its revision in order to adapt it to the new framework, as well as to European and international requirements, providing it with a stronger basis for the indispensable institutional coordination against gender-based violence. To this end, Ararteko is already working intensively with other Basque institutions coordinated by Emakunde in the framework of an international process sponsored by the United Nations, in the evaluation of services and care measures for women who have suffered male-based violence. Minimum quality parameters should be established and public services provided in this area should be improved in the Basque Country. However, it is essential to combine efforts to prioritise in Basque political agendas the implementation of necessary reforms or initiatives aimed at ensuring and enhancing effective care, support and protection for women, boys and girls victims, in the areas of – of course – our administrations' own intervention, uniquely in the field of social services, education, health, police protection and coordination with justice. Another section on equality concerns the economic gap between men and women, which has become a priority at European and international level. The 2017 Global Gender Gaps Index, published by the World Economic Forum, says that effective gender equality in all areas, including labour and wages, will have to wait at least a century. Thus, wage parity between men and women would not be achieved – according to this study – until 2234. I don't know if we'll be there to see it. We are not on the right track when the gender gap during 2017 has widened, for the first time in the last decade. In the Basque Country, Ararteko believes that we can and should strive for stronger action, articulating whether there is a need for specific legal measures aimed at that end to reduce and eliminate the unjust and persistent economic gap between men and women, also converging on the European objectives established as priorities in the European Strategy for Gender Equality 2016-2019, which develops the gender dimension of the European Strategy 2020. These priorities include increasing women's participation in the labour market, expanding their economic independence, reducing the wage gap, the income and pension gap between women and men, thus combating the highest prevalence of poverty among women and promoting equality in decision-making. These priorities should serve to establish in Basque society what should be the preferred framework for economic equality actions. I should also like to refer in this paragraph to the issues of gender-based harassment and sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is not harmless and has enormous costs, both for the people who suffer it and for their families and the rest of Basque society. This is another manifestation of patriarchal ideology and an expression of macho violence. There is now a broad consensus, both at international level and in the European institutions, that it is urgent to put an end to the impunity that has long protected harassers and the social stigma that has led victims – women – to silence this form of violence. It is therefore essential that Basque institutions are fully involved in the effort to engage men, boys, adolescents and young people in the prevention of violence against women. Gender equality is a responsibility that belongs, without exception, to all people, and gender-based violence is a phenomenon that violates the dignity and integrity of women, of course, but can also lead to tragic consequences that are unfortunately still common. In this regard, specific measures should be promoted to establish criteria to ensure that every woman in any field of work, education, culture or society, effective channels of expression to lodge such complaints, which would encourage increased investment in independent bodies that can advise victims with clear protocols and promote education in values, allowing for consensual identification of gender-based harassment and sexual harassment. Turning already to the issue of social inclusion, it must be said that the highest levels of poverty, job insecurity and social inequality particularly affect women, but women in whom other factors of vulnerability, such as age, class and origin, are also involved. Special mention is due to single-parent or single-maritime families; it is an emerging expression, families made up of women, alone, foreigners, with dependent children. Reducing social inequality should include not only determined gender policies, but policies to support the most vulnerable groups. The situation of Gypsy people should also be specifically mentioned. The need for measures for their promotion and social and economic participation responds to ethical and legal commitments as a cultural minority. But it is also that they are obliged, in accordance with the European Strategy for the Social Inclusion of the Gypsy Population. The Ararteko has been able to verify through various complaints that it has had to deal with in 2017 the way in which the social rejection suffered by the Roma population stands in an added difficulty for the possibilities of their inclusion and social progress. Ararteko has repeatedly stressed the advantages of having a system of social benefits with economic content, especially during the recent crisis. Thanks to these benefits, many families have been able to live with dignity and avoid falling into serious exclusion processes. In the light of the allegations of social aid fraud, the Department of Employment and Social Policy has carried out rigorous analysis, collection and processing of information which, in the light of the data, concludes that the cases detected do not reach 1% of the reviews carried out. The management of income-guarantee income and supplementary housing benefits carried out by Lanbide since 2011 had a complex start, full of difficulties and misadjustments. But it cannot be denied that it has progressively improved its functioning. The analysis of the thousands of complaints that Ararteko has dealt with regarding social benefits of an economic nature has enabled it to draw up a diagnosis of the management of these benefits from the perspective of defending the rights of vulnerable persons and fulfilling the guarantees of the administrative procedure. I refer, therefore, to the last report-diagnosis 2017, as well as to the numerous recommendations and suggestions that this institution has addressed to the Department of Employment and Social Policy. More specifically, I must stress in this area the importance of respecting the appropriate time limit in the response to requests for grant and resumption, the necessary justification for the decisions, the hearing prior to any restrictive decision on rights, the need for adequate information for users, the importance of the registration of the documentation submitted, or the publication and updating of the criteria applied in the processing of such aid. In addition, I would like to recall the need for more intensive collaboration and coordination between Lanbide, social services and the Department of Housing in order to provide more effective care for people at risk or social exclusion. I would also like to point out the inescapable need to provide for the training of staff who attend and manage these benefits. I would like to draw attention to the importance of having clear and transparent rules on the requirements and obligations that people must fulfil in order to receive financial benefits. I am obliged to place particular emphasis on the demand for weighted and proportionate responses to the loss of qualifications or the failure to comply with certain obligations, paying particular attention to the best interests of the child in order to avoid an aggravation in the situation of exclusion suffered by these persons. Over the years, this institution has analysed numerous complaints in which it has assessed that there has been a certain disproportion between the conduct accused of the person and the punitive response. It should also improve, also because of the large number of claims filed with Ararteko, the procedures for claiming undue benefits. The situation of people with serious social exclusion without income is a cause of concern, a matter of serious concern to Ararteko. Therefore, I must insist on the difficulty of access to housing suffered by certain vulnerable persons. This is due both to rental prices and to the requirements and guarantees that are required of certain housing claimants. In addition, existing prejudices with regard to some collectives impede their possibilities of normalized access to housing. On the other hand, difficulties in accrediting an address are at the root of the obstacles that individuals face in proving compliance with the requirements for access to the GIR. The reality is that there are people in a situation of social exclusion and extreme poverty who cannot access economic benefits or are interrupted for a prolonged period of time. This causes repeated complaints and consultations with Ararteko. This Parliament will soon debate the improvement of the system of economic benefits. In this effort they know that they can count on – they have at their disposal – the work already done by the institution of which I have the honour to be the holder. Even this year, we've been informed that it's hard to guarantee the welfare of environments in the homes of Euskal Autonomia Erria, and it's important to discuss poor energy in a social level. Some corporations have completed program to face power expense. Beyond paying the expense done, the other party set up the service to give advice about the potential contract, as well as the service to aid the social bond or the last resource rate in order to reduce the amount of electricity. Additionally, the agreements with the companies have been signed to prevent the supply being interrupted. The intermediary has also remarked that efforts must be united to save energy and use efficiency by renewing the stale housing park or by pushing the means of reducing energy billing in the housing of the highest needy and creating energy. In the field of education, it is worth noting the large number of complaints – I am referring to almost 500 – promoted by stakeholders who, having attended or being in adult education, have obtained or are willing to obtain the degree of Graduate in Compulsory Secondary Education. The reason that has driven them to come to Ararteko is the change in the institutions corresponding to the admission and registration of public and private concerted centres that provide vocational training courses in Euskadi. In the light of this change, preference is given to access to middle-level training courses, within the quota reserved for secondary school graduates, to those who have previously passed the fourth compulsory secondary education course. In the opinion of the complainants, this change of system implies a comparative aggravation for adult education students. This is not the first time that Ararteko receives complaints that raise this same issue. Already before, the admission of some specific complaints made the institution request the collaboration of the department, then Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Universities, in order to know the reasons for introducing a differential treatment between them for the purposes of access to the middle-level vocational training cycles. That action made it clear that the reason for such a decision was the desire to give priority to the student who completes the compulsory secondary education stage, with the aim of continuing to train in higher education to facilitate their subsequent integration into the labour market, all in the best interests of the child and the European Union's strategy to reduce school drop-out to less than 10 %. However, in view of the very large number of complaints made in 2017, this obliges the possible proportionality of the measure to be reconsidered, as the high number of complaints received may be indicative perhaps of harmful consequences that had not been foreseen. I must point out that the heads of the Department of Education have been willing to follow Ararteko's request to carry out an analysis or study of this issue in the medium term. With regard to refugees, Ararteko has been insisting that the management of migration movements and the protection of refugees cannot obviate the need to articulate legal formulas that allow entry into Europe through resettlements, visas, humanitarian corridors, etc. It is necessary to abandon the fiction that borders can become impervious to the entry of people. The difficulties in entering and residing legally are considerable, but they serve above all to discourage many people whose first option would have been to follow the legal procedure, abusing them to resort to dangerous adventures through unsafe and irregular migration routes. The public management of migratory movements would allow territorial reception policies to avoid the current fears of the population generated by improvisation. It would also allow for the identification of countries of origin from which the requests originate and the analysis of other measures to address poverty and migration needs. The Basque Government has made significant efforts to make progress in a complementary programme for the reception of refugees and in the development of the so-called "humanitarian corridors". It has been clearly positioned in favour of the reception of refugees, with clear respect for commitments under international humanitarian law. Ararteko positively appreciates these efforts that have been continued over time. Last year the Ararteko team has developed various initiatives with other defenders of the State and other European and Mediterranean countries, promoting agreements and maintaining relations and meetings with the Basque Government and with non-governmental organizations working on the integration of refugees in the Basque Country. Basque social organizations have remained very active in the defence of the human rights of refugees, which dignifies Basque society as a whole. Humanitarian social mobilization is an important element of visibility of the suffering of people seeking international protection and promotes the search for solutions. It should be said that there is growing concern among human rights defenders about the criminalization of actions in defence of the human rights of asylum-seekers or irregular migrants. This risk is high in some countries in Europe whose legislation does not clearly distinguish between conduct based on humanitarian aid and a crime of trafficking in persons. Council Directive 2002/90/EC of 28 November 2002 should, in my view, be revised. The cases of Helena Maleno, the Seville firefighters of Proem-Aid and the Basque activists of Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak arrested in Greece are sufficiently eloquent and have provoked Ararteko's actions before his counterparts in other countries. Finally, we must not forget that Basque society has an important challenge, that of paying sufficient attention to the reception of persons seeking refuge, but also to their further integration among us without discrimination. Also in this area, Ararteko recognizes the efforts made by the Basque authorities and the pilot projects under way. Persons in prison represent one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, so the claim of the prison transfer, reiterated by the Basque Government and by this Parliament, must go hand in hand with an appeal to Basque citizens as a whole to make them aware that prison is not a distant and alien entity, but a reality whose responsibility lies with Basque society as a whole. It is known the adage that the state of prisons and the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty is the sign that makes it possible to assess the state of civilization of a society. In this respect, while there is no doubt that the transfer will - in our view - promote collective conciliation, it is necessary to insist on the need for the reintegration work already being carried out in the Basque Country to be articulated through an integrated and coherent system. This work is located in various socio-medical, socio-legal and socio-laboral spaces, which requires planning and coordination, to the extent that it depends on institutions responsible for social action, employment, social affairs, security, health, justice, peace and coexistence. All these bodies need to coordinate their approaches, harmonize procedures, pool efforts and initiatives. Multi-annual agreements and commitments should be agreed for the development of programmes and services to facilitate the equal and unrestricted access of the prison population to the standardized network of social, educational, health and employment promotion services that our Basque institutions organize and manage. The recommendations that Ararteko has been making in this regard make full sense, in any case, within the framework of a prison model of its own, a comprehensive system of criminal execution that does not increase marginalization and chronicles the factors that lead to crime. In the opinion of the Office of the Ombudsman, a reference to the design of the system could be the study of the General Guidelines for Criminal Enforcement and Prison Policy, which in its day had already been drawn up by the University of the Basque Country, drawing on European prison rules, commissioned by the Department of Justice of the Basque Government. I would not like to conclude this point without making a point about prison policy. It was determined and conditioned in recent decades by the fight against terrorism, both in the application of legal norms and in the interpretation and application of them. In my view, the fact that ETA has abandoned its criminal activity explicitly and definitively facilitates an interpretation of the law which, as this institution has always recommended, is more consistent with the rehabilitating purpose of the sentences, enabling the application of reintegration criteria to prisoners and prisoners in general prison. We must therefore reiterate the desirability of changing prison policy in this regard, such as the transfer to prisons in the country. Basque or close to our autonomous community, application of permits, conditional freedoms, calculation of prison benefits or release of those suffering from serious or incurable diseases. In this line he has intervened "Secretly, that is so," said Ararteko, in front of so many social and institutional bodies throughout the year, and he will continue to do so by understanding that his mandate demands it, while insisting on the inescapable defence of the victims of violence, so that the end of terrorism and its social, ethical and political delegitimization may favor a model of coexistence based on respect for democratic principles and the rights of all people. Last year, we've made a very firm bet on the Artarian organization to protect the human rights in order to strengthen the international institutions. And that's how we'll stay in the next few years. So we've put together relations with IOI (International Ombsman Institite), with EENO (Eur Baura Ombresman network), with OIF (Ombudsman's Imbudsmanic Federation), with IALC (the International International Society for Language Commissaries), EENOC (AC) which protects the rights of children, and also with other international organizations of Europe. Thus you will find in the Vth chapter of the 2017 year's report a special section dedicated to the numerous activities of Europe and national activity last year. In conclusion, I want to thank all my colleagues who are employed in the Ardio organization for their zeal, their effective work, and their commitment. In order to finish my discourse, I still find myself in a period of time; I wish to thank you for your attention, and to beg you to follow me in order to do the duties given to the legislature by the State and by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ardiz. Next, we're going to the group shift, from the small to the big one. Mrs. Bengochea, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, members of the Government, parliamentarians and parliamentarians. We have studied with great interest, as we do every year, the 2017 Ararteko report. And I want to say that Ararteko, in our opinion, is a fundamental figure in our institutional architecture. And why is it? Because we legislators make laws and, of course, cannot be laws ad hominem ad hominem But the Ararteko is a bridge between the administration and the citizens. A neutral bridge. And by making laws and ruling with a desire for a just and harmonious coexistence, we find that there are casuistics that the laws do not contemplate or do not collect because it is impossible, casuistics are as many as there are citizens. And it is the Ararteko who comes here and in his reports puts individualized faces and eyes to those people whose casuistics do not fall within the norms, does not fall within the laws. And regulations and laws that have been designed, as we said, to foster a just and harmonious coexistence, for those people in particular become barriers. And this happens, of course. That is why we believe that Ararteko is a fundamental part of our fabric. And we can be asked, and we must be asked, what is our opinion of the activity of Ararteko during 2017. Let's see. The Ararteko intervened in a total of 13,437 instances promoted by the citizens. If we divide it between 365 days of the year, we see that it is a great activity; and of those initiatives, 9,582 were complaints. And here comes our first somewhat negative position, because we have to say that, of the actions that the Ararteko ruled wrong, 87,61 % were resolved. We'll be told, that's good! But 12.39% were not resolved and we are not talking about how they had to be resolved by citizens or private entities. No, no, we're talking about the administrations. And it's hard to understand why administrations don't solve 12.39% of the cases where Ararteko has recommended that they do something. It's hard to understand. Of course, Ararteko speaks in many areas. But what we highlight are the areas of social inclusion, which account for 31.05 % of the cases, and those of education, which account for 22.69 % of the cases. The Ararteko also helps us to see, both legislators and the executive, where are the biggest gaps of inefficiency in our entire fabric. That's another thing we have to thank Ararteko, he points out to us which areas are the least satisfactory. In other administrations we have also been concerned that, out of a total of 22 complaints, nine refer to the UPV. It also gives us that clue the Ararteko. If we did not have the report, this would be data wasted by the various councils to which we would not have such clear access. So, we know that in UPV we have some problem, because it does not satisfy citizens at the level of other areas. And then we'll be asked what our assessment of Ararteko is. Well, we're citizens' spokespersons. But in this case, it is not that we are already spokespersons alone, but we are transmitters of what they have said. The assessment of Ararteko is given by the citizens, who consider that Ararteko's performance has been good at 35.52 % and very good at 31.97 %. We are talking about about about 70% of citizens, and not about citizens in general, but about those citizens who have had a specific problem and who have gone with a probably painful, probably distressed attitude; that is, more complex citizens to satisfy. Well, almost 70% of them think that Ararteko's performance has been good or very good. That's the verdict. We as legislators are what we have to pass on, because people here do not need spokespersons, they have already spoken. And then, with regard to how Ararteko's management has worked, very positive believe that it is 41.8% and positive 27.8%. I mean, we're back to about 70%. What do we think the work of Ararteko deserves during 2017? We cannot replace the citizens. The citizens approve it with a remarkable high and that is what we take as our position. It does make the Ararteko incidence on some things that we need to improve and, as there is no time, I will read them quickly. The administrative silence used as a way to deny a petition. The Ararteko tells us that we cannot use administrative silence in those cases that involve denial because, using this topic, we have no need to reason why our resolution is negative. That seems to us to be fundamental, to fix the negative administrative silence. He tells us about the waiting lists in Sanidad. He talks to us in the complaints houses about the constructive defects of the VPO, in which the Department is inhibited and says that he merely observes and raises record, when, by the way, there are always bonds that can be executed to repair these defects. This is done in other administrations. If the VPO that is delivered has some kind of deficiency, the bond is executed to be able to fix it. And Ararteko complains that the Housing Council says no, that they simply take the record, inspect. And since I have little time left, I want to stress again that Ararteko puts the eyes and faces of people who are in a disadvantaged situation by laws that aspired to the opposite, to protect and promote coexistence. And look, it's touching, but there's a case for example that I have to mention, so, for what I'm saying, because it puts eyes on us: A woman who is 38 years and six months old and is going to ask for a fertility treatment from public health. Do you know what public health tells you? They deny it. And why are they denying it? They say "because the top is 40 years old. You're 38 with six, there's so much waiting list that by the time you get here you'll be 40 years old." Do you realize the need of Ararteko? A woman, 38 years old and six months old, says, "oh, I'm still a year and a half, I'm coming." And they say no, because the waiting list is so long that by the time it touches you, you'll be 40 years old, which is the top age. For this it is necessary the Ararteko. Before I finish, in the seconds left, let me give you another example: an older person going to a day center, and while attending that day center is deteriorating, it is deteriorating. Well, there comes a time when the day center gives him off because they tell him that he is no longer able to follow the day center activities. Then, a family that has its major in the day center, that picks it up at night, that the major is in their family environment, with their family members, that during the day goes to the day center and they give it off, they throw it away, because in the period that has been has deteriorated and that no longer participates in the activities. For this type, this is what Ararteko does: it puts eyes and faces to those whose case law does not protect, but rather harms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, all of you. It reminds me now of Mrs Bengoechea's eyes, the work we have been doing until yesterday by some people in this House, by international observers, who today I am sure are experiencing a little worse than the other Members of Parliament. Returning to the subject, it is true and many of those who have spoken before me have said so, Ararteko himself also, we are talking about the X-ray that he does in his report on the social situation of people, the state that they occupy in society and the circumstances that lead him to have unequal, unjust, harmful or discriminatory situations: the lack of equality between men and women, between those here and there, or those who are here and those who come from there, those who have this sexual identity, that sexual orientation and those who have another; those who believe or have faith in one deity, those who have several, those who have no gods but have faith and those who do not have one thing or the other, also those who do not know whether or not believe. It is therefore a question of ensuring equality and equal opportunities in access to public services for all Basque citizens and doing so under optimal conditions and in the standards of well-being, protection of rights and services that we have established so far. The points that we highlight by the Socialist Group in the committee are those which, in this case, we will also highlight in plenary, those relating to social exclusion, complaints and complaints relating to social exclusion, which I believe Ararteko himself has now reported and detailed, and which derive from the lack of equality between people and focus essentially on the areas of Lanbide, RGI and also on the supplementary housing provision. In all of them, they concerned complaints and management problems, and in the majority, as reported in committee, they had been resolved. At the moment there is a process of reflection for the reform, not only of the RGI, I know, but also later Lanbide's own service in an update for its improvement and guarantee of the entire Basque social protection system. And I believe that all these Ararteko reports, both ordinary and extraordinary, can also be included in them, most of which actually relate to these areas and quite broadly, being the first ones in complaints or complaints. But we, too, are referring to another specific issue, which has also been mentioned, which is those relating to education and, in particular, to those carried out by adult centres on the lack of places for enrolment in vocational training caused by the fact that these places, as they have already said, are covered by pupils who finish high school and opt for this exit as an option for vocational training. But the Socialist Group's concern is not only that there are no places for these people in these centres, which can also coincide with those who suffer from long-term unemployment, but that the concern of the Ararteko came to a greater extent directed to the vocational training in a country like ours, leader in innovation and machinery, in all that are solutions related to vocational training, to offer this educational route, this formative route to those who have failed at school or is done to avoid dropping out of school. We have been frankly concerned and believe that it is necessary that this be corrected by educational institutions, not only because there are no places for older people, but that young people should be offered a second category, after university education and precisely in order to avoid dropping out of school when it is precisely the opposite that we should strengthen throughout the State and in Europe as well, but especially in our country. Yeah, he talked about equality, too. I am not going to talk and settle in on the pay gap, which in 2234 let us hope to see, let us also hope that that elimination will take place in 2234. I will refer in fact and summarizing that Ararteko has concluded in what many of us know, the feminization of poverty and the feminization of violence, and that is so in the more advanced and much more burdensome societies in those who are not. But I will refer in particular to violence against women, to macho violence, as I did in the committee. I believe that we must regain the momentum that has existed in other times, in the reinforcement and the fight against macho violence because it is necessary, because we have it next door, we have it every day; because every day we know that it is not only killing a woman, but that she is despised, harassed, physically assaulted or cosmified, with which she can eventually give rise to violence against her. We now also know that there are areas of impunity in the judicial sphere also for violence against women. We know there's a change of direction. We're waiting for that formation of judges, but we can't be quiet. The Ararteko report itself referred to the need also in Euskadi for a legislative text that complements, which supports all measures being taken at state and European level, as well as at global level, against gender-based violence. In this case, we are one of the few communities, or at least those that have no law against gender-based violence. We understand that this law is necessary, it is in the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party and, given the current situation of serious gender-based violence, we understand that the sooner that law is on the table, the better we will do our job, the Basque institutions and the Basque political forces, in helping all those measures that are taken in other institutional and social spheres to deal with this violence. Finally, I will also refer to violence against children. He has spoken of child poverty, from which many of the other povertys or differences that we, the Socialists, are particularly concerned. This is not the first time I have heard about the digital divide, which began especially during the years of the crisis, which has not yet been resolved, and that training and education across the digital world is not guaranteed equally for all the children of Euskadi. And I'll end the sexual abuse. We are concerned about the situation not only of sexual abuse, we know that its invisibility makes it impossible to deal with it on many occasions with the proper guarantee. We know for Ararteko that a protocol of action is being prepared that goes from the health center through school, families and justice itself, but we are particularly concerned about the latter. In this regard, I would like to recall that the European Commission, a short time ago, decided to investigate Spain to see whether the legislation is applied in a guaranteed way for the protection of minors. This was after a complaint that the alleged violation of rights in judicial abuse proceedings was reported. The Commission also credited complaints about the improper application of parental alienation syndrome against mothers and the lack of credibility that some courts attribute to the testimony of boys and girls. And that is not just happening in the rest of the state, that is also happening here, and we must give an answer to protect boys and girls, at least within the judicial system. Children should not be heard only when they are mature enough, there are ways of hearing children in their different stages of maturity. The pre-constituted evidence must be made with the best conditions and at the earliest opportunity, and the child cannot be used ever when an abuse is being investigated, or the girl, within the custody and custody fights, inter alia, because the child, if there has been no due guarantee, or the girl, can end the person who was abusing her, because, as Europe says, the due guarantee has not been applied in the judicial process. It seems very serious to me. The children, the girls are the most helpless people in the system and I would ask especially – I know that Ararteko is going to do a few days in the UPV courses – to develop this protocol, to investigate the gaps and absences in the judicial process that does not protect children, and to take action as soon as possible, because the day we lose, the day a child is being abused without any consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u9	Good morning, thank you, ladies of the board, members of the legislature, chief. Lehenik eta behin, eskerrik asko Ararteko jaunari eta berge tadekideei, gaurko azalpenengatik eta berge eguneroko lanagatik. Dakizuenez, gure iritziz, herritarren eskubideen defendsan Arartekoa ezinbesteko erakundea da. And for that reason, we are not only grateful for your work, but we hope that it will be strengthened and that all, and for the place that we have, especially this Government, will listen well to those who put us in its report, in the extraordinary ones and in which it is presented today. We cannot start this speech without drawing attention to the very worrying data that this report reveals, among other things. Fifty per cent of the activities they perform are related to economic precariousness. There is an increase in the infantileization of poverty, of related complaints affecting children, to nearly 500. There is a habitual violation of the principle of the best interests of girls and boys, and a tremendous inequality in the care of these girls and boys by our institutions in Euskadi. A stable and worryingly recurring percentage of complaints in some departments or agencies, a high percentage of calls for attention by Ararteko to the duty to report that this Government has. An interesting percentage of unaccepted and unsolved complaints by the Basque Government, a very high percentage of complaints that have to do with the disproportion with which this Administration acts on citizenship, and in particular Lanbide on persons who receive income tax. And it is that the whole of this report reveals that we have a lot to do, one more year. And since I don't have to be as politically correct as Mr Ararteko, I'm going down to the concrete. If we made a main profile of the actor questioned by this report, we would see the Basque Government, in particular the departments of Employment and Social Policy, Health and Education. Too bad none of the responsible people are here to hear it. A thousand complaints in total, in just these three departments. More than four hundred incorrect pleadings, with 50 % of the decisions not accepted. If we made a profile of the worst in the class, there we would certainly have Mrs Artolazabal's department and in particular Lanbide, which is an indisputable protagonist with its 800 complaints, which account for 40% of the total of this report, 40%. But not only that, of those 800 complaints only 13 % are answered favourably, and 60 % are not accepted. 60 %. But not only Lanbide's duty to report has been the star agency in this report, 222 requests have been made to the Department of Employment and Social Policy. 222. There's no other department near him. This means that Lanbide, in addition to being the worst in the class in terms of results, if we also understand this report as an evaluation, is the worst being carried out, because they say that no to the people's ombudsperson more than half of the times it asks. And that, forgive me the frankness, is an absolute shame. If I were a member of this government, if I were Mrs. Artolazabal, I would be colored and not having coffee. It certainly gives me a lot to think about. As far as health is concerned, we are not short. Regardless of what they do – and regret that Mr. Darpón is not, the doped OPEs – have 122 complaints. I understand that alongside Lanbide, the Department of Health is almost outstanding, but it should also be stressed that we may have the lowest average waiting lists in the state, some averages being 30 or 60 days and meeting targets, but there are also duties for the summer. The Department of Health in terms of waiting lists, and in particular in some specialties, and in respect of some interventions, far exceed these averages. I mean, they don't meet goals. More transparency, personalized attention to those on those waiting lists, and reassignment of resources to the lists more late. Rehab consultations or trauma intervention consultations should be aired. Nor do we want to fail to mention the problem that is addressed in the report on the health situation of prisoners who do not have specialized care or means to supplement their diagnosis, cannot have the sentence adapted to their needs, or to their health situation, despite what has been said in this report, year after year. Finally, the participation structures in Osakidetza are still not regulated. We believe that this is urgent, because the processes of participation in trade union negotiations do not exhaust the democratic process of organizing Osakidetza. And this would allow the Department to reduce much of its complaints and dysfunctions. In education, 90% of the complaints related, as Mr Ararteko has said, to a totally discriminatory situation that has been experienced by high school graduates in adult education centres. It seems that the title of EPA is not worth the same as that obtained in an institute, and all this student has remained in the queue. This fact automatically converts the GES title, obtained in the EPA center, into a second category title. We'd like Mrs. Uriarte to be here, because this leads us to create an exclusion bag, and we'd like you to hear it. What we need is more cohesion, not more exclusion. We will give you the vote of confidence that after the summer you will present us with that study that committed you to Mr Lezertua, to show us that this discrimination is not such, and that Ararteko is wrong, because if not, we can come to think that between the concentration of students of low socioeconomic families in some schools, the lack of access of adults to vocational training on equal terms rather than a public and quality education that is what we need, what this department designs are segregating policies. We are not going to think that, nor are we going to think that the failure to comply with the November 2017 resolution, in which the Department is suggested to incorporate the inclusive perspective of the promotion of persons with disabilities in the determination of public prices, is intended. Finally, and on this point, we draw attention to the complaint concerning the protection of students' data. And I know that you will say that here is again the heavy fingerprint, that is life, as long as we have institutions that do not serve the protection of people and at this time the protection of data, so we will continue. In the area of employment, employment and social security, it is clear that Lanbide does not fulfil its functions in terms of the integration of people into the ordinary labour market. It demonstrates the need for brokering services to improve and meet their objective. And all this in addition to the dysfunctions detected in Vocational Training, with the framework agreement between the Government and Confebask, far from solving it, what we are going to do is externalize Lanbide's functions and leave them in the hands of business agents. In the area of housing, together with Ararteko, we talk about the tiny park and the need to solve dysfunctions in access to the right to housing. In the area of equality there is also a task for the summer, but this time, and it is most worrying, it is to be shared at all institutional levels. Gastronomic societies that we are subsidizing with public media that do not admit women, we still have no specific measures to set criteria to ensure that they all have channels to make complaints about sexual harassment. There is a need for a code of ethics for the staff of the Administration and a thorough education in values that will end the scourge of discrimination against women. To conclude, and because today we have to be short, we do not want to end without talking about the situation in the Basque Country of migrants and refugees, because yesterday was the International Day of Refugees, yes, but especially because yesterday, today and tomorrow they are and will continue to be subject to violated rights, despite the great photos, the great speeches and the great offers that do not come to fruition in the necessary measures. Situations such as those experienced this Monday in Donostia or yesterday in Bilbao, or those that every day people who are not entering the reception devices live, are intolerable, whether they come out in the press or not In Ararteko's assessment of the state of rights, he spoke of the need to reflect on concrete measures aimed at combating discrimination, measures that did not come or did not resolve, despite the recommendations that were repeated year after year, measures that, even if they were behind a manifest political will, were aggravated by an issue that determined this report and that had not yet been named, and that said that certain public services in Euskadi discriminated against people because of their origin, and that there were neither resources to avoid it, nor resources to determine it on many occasions; issues that did not help, ladies and gentlemen of this Government, the campaigns of criminalization of poverty and that determined, of course, that this Government had a lot of work to do. We expect movements and we expect them soon, because we cannot afford, if we want to be a decent society, to have first and second citizenship. We will not allow it to be divided in two, the rights belong to every human being, and no one is peculiar to the race, the colour of the skin, the sex, the language, religion, politics, or any other opinion, the origin, the economy, birth, or any other circumstance. We'll be on our guard together from the Podemos team, and we'll work hard, because by so many pretty things we're protecting the separation and dissecmination, and the boss's a Euskio. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u11	Thank you, chief, chief of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good days. First of all, we'd like to congratulate the intermediary and all her team for the work they do. We believe that an organization of this kind is necessary, an organization which favors the rights of the people. Besides, apart from the fact that we consider it essential, we regard it as necessary to work outside political interest, and to act impartially as belonging to it. So, first of all, our reconnaissance on that side. In saying this, we have to show once more this year that there are reports and recommendations that are repeated every year in the year of Ardria. This shows that he frequently neglects the work of the interrogator, or is ignored by his recommendations. And in our opinion, this is very serious, especially if we consider that we speak of a defense of the people's rights, and that so many counsels and recommendations which are received from the Government, or from different administrations, are very little attended with them. This isn't good for citizens, not even positive. And this year we're going to start with the smokes that we've received around the protection system. Since 2010 began to see the most serious consequences of the crisis, the complaints of the population have increased 70% of the different reasons, but above all, there have been complaints about economic welfare that have been most prominently raised. The claims relating to the management of the revenue revenues are more and more and more, and obviously this situation is becoming chronic. So, instead of correcting this tendency, it's getting worse. And here's a light reading from our team: the measures of the corrections are not applied or the tools that are being inspected for the return of this situation are not suitable. Besides, it is impossible to forget that the tempus to claim our rights, because the procedures extend too much, and that, in regard to the basic information which is to be given to the people, are obvious privations. As in other parts, the Department of Empedice and Polytics has replied to some recommendations of the Aridala, but there are others which remain unanswerable. The same thing happens in security, and this is unacceptable to us. If the rights of the citizen are important, the people who are in a vulnerable situation are especially responsible, and we have to take care of them. And what to say when we look into the state of children and teenagers. Herein is a disturbing account mentioned by the intermediary: The poverty of the children of Eukadin exceeds the poverty of the whole population, and increases rapidly. It's also more effective in families with one parent and foreign families. On the other hand, the intermediary shows that poverty is inherited during our generation. In fact, the data is very disturbing and if we want to get a real advanced state of well-being, we want to find social cohesion, that is, if we want to build a good deal of state, we can't allow that the 10 percent of our children should experience a state related to their basic deficiency. No way. However, how important it is to have a decent apartment in order to achieve that kind of state. But in the year's report, the public housing has most complaints, as the people report in their smokes, they spend many years under the name of the building, but they don't have any protection available to them. This is no news to any one, and the problem is to consider how high the prices of private income are. As we have often insisted on, the interrogator shows that the number of public housing in public administration is much smaller than the demand of the people. On the other hand, when he declares that the public eucalyptic administrations ought to take additional measures of rule and budget, and make every effort to satisfy the right of the people's housing. And we fully assert that this institution is once more a petition to the public administration of Esscal: Let the public protection housing park increase in order to give proper answers to the hinges established in the Housing Law. We wouldn't like to focus on the entire intervention of social rights. Therefore we shall speak of other parts, even though there is danger of being put to the surface. The frugality of means of fighting against crimes of discrimination and hatred is again to be detected, and in this case correct measures are required. Nevertheless, this group, as the interrogator does, cannot, in order to set up our security system for torture, the deficiency which reveals the end of the investigations of the late Eukadin and of the misdeeds. As I have said, the yearly report shows the waters of so many rights. In health, for instance, like every year, there are complaints which have reference to the expectation. Often we read in media or averages that the list of waiting places in media or average within 50 days. But statistics and data are covered by a lot of complaints and complaints that make it clear that to operate or make a trial is to wait longer than 190 days. In the same way, just about the accessability, when it is time to ensure universal access to hospitals, Osamate has too little. And though many times he asks for, proposed, and discussed, in this case the next part of nothing has been advanced. The rights of education and equality, as well as others, will remain unspoken, but we will always have time to develop this report of the intermediary. We have a year. And it cannot be forgotten that the rights of the Basque tongue are still divided in this matter, without doubt the essential business. It can't be that in this country where we have two official languages, eupscals must always complain to guarantee our right. Because we are not assured of our right, because we cannot live upon it in all places: As it happens when you're on the edge or when you go to work. On the other hand, I'm going to finish my shift at once. Here we agree with the intermediary, the maxist violence continues to be a primary problem. And in this sense, it tells us that the rate of wages is a economic force. Besides, there's been a significant backward step this year. This is why it is indispensable to take care of ourselves and to encourage public policy, because it is our responsibility, because it is our responsibility. By the end, we'd like to finish our request with the same last year. Let the intermediary work for the people who are in serious financial condition to promote solidarity between them. For it is time to decide whether health, home, education, social rights, social rights, and ideas are rights in public, or just privileges reserved for opulent economic situations. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. And finally, Eucabertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u13	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. I have to apologize because I'm almost out of voice. The interrogator introduced us to discuss and examine our 2017-17 bill at the Human Rights Committee a few weeks ago. And just as it happened today, different perspectives and readings appeared. But what we can't deny is that more and more people approach the people of the Arlia. The arts of the intermediary and of the toils of the people give you fruit, which is a blessing. On the one hand, I'd like to remark the work Arlia and her team have done to prepare this review, and to congratulate them on their daily work. This serves us to take the picture or picture of the manifold reality of our society. It is a service which the people appreciate, and which demands a great deal. It's true that either the citizen or the user is more and more exercised, and that he's more and more informed, and this leads him to move more easily through the Administration. On the one hand, we have optimistic data. The user is informed and is more explicit in what he needs, how he can get it and where he's going to get it. It's closer to the interrogator, because the organization is more familiar every year and confidence has even increased. And, on the other hand, the presence of more users supposes a upload of the Arts' work charge, and consequently raises the administration's work charge as well. Today's society is more complicated, more complex, compared to the society we had a few years ago. We have many realities, several realities, and the attention we ought to give to strangers when they come to us must be very broad and very complete. They are all, or almost all, the administrative departments, to assist persons from without, co-ordination and indirect labor are essential, and indispensable, to pay attention, and not to prolong too much time, in the complicated situations above mentioned. Some of the demands which the interrogator receives are conducted and arranged at the moment, others in the middle of the term, and a few in the long term. In the latter case a process opens, and the interrogation group continues to continue from the beginning to the end of this process, and, as appears in the report, the interrogates the administration's attitude and good work. Therefore requests are listened to, and results are obtained. However, improvement is always on the path and on the basis of which we must follow. It must also be explained that our Administration has no jurisdiction in certain requests which extend to the Ardria. I think we use the word complaint too much, we use it with great facility. It is true that I will not deny, that some of the demands of the Czar are complaining, but not all. Others are only recommendations, advice, necessity, need, or petitions. And the use of this word too much can limit our reading. In the percentages that have been introduced, there will be complaints, and others, as has been said, petitions. Every one is of importance, and every one must be heard. In 2017, the interrogation has received 13437 requests, which is supposed to increase 22%, and the rise of activity has been 24%. The following features are to be observed: The Web page is much used, and the administration has generally increased, and there is a constant shortening of the periods of time, and the institution does not only perform the work of Counselling and Interrogation, but the investigations have greatly diminished. To assume that there are elements to improve, we must mention that the administration's work is becoming more and more effective. And I don't say it, it's in the Ardala's report. The modifications and progress of the administration are not only a step to improve, but steps to adapt the changes of society and the needs of the people. Besides what has been said, the fact that the numbers increase, for some people suppose things to be worse, but it is not so. There are more requests, because there are more users. We have to be honest, and we have to do the right reading. No one will deny that we can improve the process, but the work has improved, it's a good attitude and results are obtained. You have to note that when we talk about Administration, we talk about people. When a citizen, a user goes to the Administration, he meets a person, a worker, or a technician. and this process may be more or less severe. I would say in most cases, but especially when they are complicated, that they must be high degrees of empathy and sensibility, which, if they are both missing, is not a good deal to do. When we are among people, each man's attitude and nature limits and determines communication with the other, and the care that the user receives will be more pleasant or colder. When a lot of people who go to the administration have to make a deal about it, or rather take it-it doesn't matter that much. But especially if social needs are involved, attention has a lot to do with it. The interrogations have been driven to 93% and have been solved from social themes at 80%. As reflected in the report for the past year 2017, the level of compliance with the requests made by Ararteko is very high. Of all the applications submitted and sent, 93 % have been resolved. We are talking about 13,437 various requests made. Given that Ararteko's requests are not binding, these data are very satisfactory. He himself recognizes that the relationship with the Administration is fluid, effective and resolveable in general. The increase in the responsiveness of administrations is constant. In addition, shortening in time is another factor to be assessed. The credibility of Ararteko, coupled with the willingness of the Administration, leads to improved attention. The work between the two is effective and generates results. The work of association is indispensable, the work of association between different departments and different administrations. Work, communication and co-ordination. And we have to add indirect work to this. If all these items are combined, each department's workload will be eased and the deadlines will be shortened. Human development bearable and persons on the surface of the most beautiful. This, which may be foolish to some, is what others use in their daily practice. As it appears in the report of children and teenagers, we must defend the lives of our children and young men with severity. Son 492 los exedientes que afectan a niños, niñas y adolescentes, un 16,37% total de los edientes present in the Arre. It's a great challenge ahead of us. Giant. Kids and teenagers have the right to be heard and we have to guarantee their rights. We have to implicate more and more in the decisions of our society. And the intermediary, in this sense, praises the work of the Alledians. The demands and suggestions made by the interrogators are listened to, and almost all of them are filled. Governments have will and obey what they say. The work of association and indirect labor must be pushed forward. I'd like you to finish the work of the intermediary and its toils with the people every day. The work they do gives fruit, and we wish to prolong our work again, and as usual, just as always. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Having finished this Monographic, we have exhausted the list of subjects, and will begin the second whole Union Ordinarium. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and six. The meeting begins at eleven and six o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u15	Having finished this Monographic, we have exhausted the list of subjects, and will begin the ordinary meeting in the second integer. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Basque Groups of Bengochea de Bengoechea, the aquestic contagion of the schools. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Bengoche has her word for introducing and defending initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Member of the Government, Members of Parliament, this motion is the cause of the question to the Councilwoman about the excessive noise in school canteens, which in turn is the cause of a visit made by parliamentary groups to different schools, in which we were able to check on the spot. It's a motion of common sense. It's not an ideological motion. I said it in the interpellation: we are not talking about concerted school and public school; we are not talking about trilingualism... We are not talking about any of those issues. We're talking about something that's common sense. And the truth is that our group was very pleased that it was advised that it had practically the same data as us, because there are times when the opposition, a group of the opposition, brings some data and the Government brings others. And there is always the doubt of what will have been consulted, of who will be right, of what reading is done, etc., etc. In this case not, the data that our group had were the same data that the counselor provided, and that is a common starting point, which is very satisfactory. And I'll remember the data. Recommended decibels in schools: 40 decibels. In the regulations. The World Health Organization tells us that more than 55 decibels cause health damage. And the last data, which we also shared with the adviser, which does not come so much from the measurements in Euskadi as from the measurements that were made in Catalonia. Level of decibels in school dining rooms: 80-85 decibels, with peaks of 100. And I remember: more than 55 decibels damage health. So, it seems we're starting from a common position. Let's see now how we disagree with what the counselor explained to us. The counselor said that, in this respect, there were two vectors, two clear vectors: on the one hand, they were the physical spaces and, on the other, the social behavior of the students. There we agree, but he said that the physical spaces were attended to at the request of the schools. I mean, it was a reactive, not proactive posture. We know that the problem exists; but if no one complains, nothing moves here. It does not seem right to us: the responsibility for these buildings lies with the Education Council. Moreover, the compliance with the regulations of these buildings is of the Board of Education. And if something is wrong, even if no one complains, we have to fix it. That is the first aspect in which we did not agree with the counselor. And another one that emerged in the Education Committee that we had this very week is that the counselor, according to, of course, to our approach and also saying that it probably also sometimes seems like a career of who is smarter and who has realized before, because he told us that yes, that they already knew it and that some... But they meant the next Infrastructure Plan. And we disagree, for one reason: because soundproofing a space is a minor work. It's a minor play! There is nothing but go Google and see that there are a multitude of companies, with a multitude of recommendations, having worked in a multitude of very similar spaces, which offer panels, which is not that they sound sound but that absorb sound. And they're gonna let me be so pedestal, but it's just that in the explanations of how they put on, some of them put on double-sided adhesive, because they don't weigh. So we are talking about a minor work; we are not talking about a larger work. So why are we taking a smaller piece of work to the next Infrastructure Plan? If you have to paint something, if you have to fix a heating... That's minor work, that doesn't take place in an infrastructure plan. That is why we have tabled this motion, in which we first call for soundproofing, a measurement plan, a general plan for measuring spaces, decibels, and a plan to remedy situations. Different groups have intervened by adding their point of view, and the truth is that I think our group has been receptive to most of them. We have not been able to reach an agreement, because, in the end, not everyone agrees on everything. But, for example, I want to say that one of the points we have agreed – and I thank the PNV, which, although in a very simplified version, has accepted it – is that of the ratio, the study of the ratio, which is only a commitment to study the ratio of those who collaborate in taking care of the caregivers of the school eaters. Why? Because in that second vector that the counselor said, that she was talking about... And he went out in the press saying that he was going to set traffic lights so that the children would know when the noise was excessive, and so on, and so on, human intervention is needed. And of course, I'm going to give you the examples we saw in the centers. A dining room with 90 children, which has two shifts and only two carers. Every shift is 45 minutes. And in those 45 minutes, two caregivers should serve the first dish to the 90 children, remove that dish to the 90 children, serve the second dish to the 90 children, remove it and put the dessert. And also, as soon as that shift comes out, quickly pick up and clean up everything to prepare for the second shift. People who are going to have to do an educational job of asking for lower tones are going to have to be probably the carers or the eaters' assistants. Let's do a study to see if to get that second vector of the problem posed by the counselor, which was the education of children, because we are not very few in the human factor. And the PNV has accepted a very light version Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing on the turn of the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Lopez de Rockiebe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u18	Yes, good morning, and thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Before we begin, well, I am grateful to the party as an attempt to obtain a medium between us all; though, well, at last we have hardly succeeded. But, well, thank you... When I got to school, I put my work clothes on, my cap on my head, I put blue gloves on my head, the food dealer came in. Download everything in the Oficc, organize trays, put them in the ovens, put them into the fridge of fruit... Get out of the kitchen and into the dining room: the dishes, the glasses, the forks, the spoons, the knives, and the handkerchiefs. It's one o'clock in the afternoon, right at the point. So long as it's quiet, good-bye. The young people are running, swarming as usual, unable to enter the door, hungry. The shouts began, the shouts began: "What is there to eat today? Hey, don't push! Oh, my God, you're a cocoon. That's my place. Let me get some more seats! Miss, I don't like fish! The water's over. Can you repeat it? Well, that's bullshit, it's shit again. Come on, don't drop your bread, don't play with your knives, no, you can't repeat hamburgers. Miss, I'm hungry! What a mess! Where do I eat? You need to eat to the line, please. Just a little more and... And leave your phone at once, please, and don't throw out the water." This is what we hear every day in the dining room; this is the reality that is daily in our schools, probably much more noisy than that. Probably! On May 4th, we visited the Muschiz school and the dining room. The intention of visiting was to get information about the quality of the menu they receive, and to know from it the concerns and proposals of the school community about the drawing-room pattern. However, we knew that this day's menu would be right: well, who expected cold food, apparently poor, easy to size, or with a little worm on the plate when the legal teams were there, didn't they? Not the members of us who left the EH Collect. We identified, however, in the propriety of the menu, another peak added to the problem of the schools. the awful sound of scholars, teachers, and educators to suffer in this field of dining-rooms. In many cases he has been intolerable, and sometimes he has arrived at 100 decibeliums. The phrases I have just mentioned are repeated in our schools every day, and the tone will certainly be different. We know that. A lot of kids, few educators, bad food and all those factors mixed up, a bad aqueductics, a different one. There are several ways to turn this situation around and turn the dining rooms into a quiet, educational, attractive dining-room area. But unfortunately, what's going to happen to the Board of Education? What is it that Cristina Uriane has proposed to us? Well, very clear: To put traffic lights on, lightlights on every dining room. Bai, txantxa dirudi, baina semaforoen bidez arazo horri irtenbidea eman nahi di Uriarte anderek, hori delako, antza, "a simple form of noise level control; a simple, beautiful, decorative and fun form". Not indeed, Madam Uriarte, not, in order to avoid ill acoustics in the dining-rooms, are the traffic-lights not sufficient; at least, they are not the solution which should be assigned from the Administration. There are several branches to deal with the problem: the position of young men on the one hand, the educational ones on the other, and the infrastructure. At least these three should be modified in an integrated manner, if you want to find a suitable and co-ordinated solution. As for the young, it is evident that they must understand the dining-room as an educational site, which is an essential education. They must act like domestic kitchens at school, and be transmitted positive and educational values to them. Pedagogically, the dining room must be properly cultivated, and for that purpose the dining room must be understood as an educational site, and all school-units. It is clear from the number of ratios now existing, that it is impossible to act properly. How much of the children does each guardian care? How long have educationists got to feed young people? A lot of kids and very little time. It is plain, then, that it is not proper for education to be made in these conditions. And even in regard to the lower ones, that is very important. The food place has to be comfortable. The students are now as if they were sardines in a can. We know, we need to adjust the tanks, we need space to work, we need to clean them up, we need to make adaptations to the ceilings to avoid loud noises, and make space fit and comfortable. As for Mme. Verdurin, even in the dining-rooms, we have seen that the motive proposed by PP has been admitted, and that we have done so many points in addition, because it seems to us that the question of acoustics is not going to be solved in an isolated manner, we must introduce the ratios and other measures. We need a thorough diagnosis to know what the situation is, in all schools, but in all schools. And it's important to adapt the ratios of the men who have been brought up with the changes corresponding to sub-goverments. This is necessary to us, because they are the best means of solving the matter by talking to each other every day into the dining-rooms, and in a great measure. That's right, if they can guarantee their work under adequate and dignified conditions. For us, the dining room has its importance, and today we have a chance to publish it, and we'll try it. I'll use it politely to examine all the proposals, but I really appreciate your essay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u19	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together the representative of the Podemus, Martezin, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Thank God, everyone. Good morning. We're going to discuss the Motive on the Acousstic pollution in the school stations. I think, with what Mrs. Bengochea said, the occasion of the motion is sufficiently explained, and with the examples given by Mrs. And yes, we have school stations back in the legislature again, in a different way, with a different problem. But I think that when we have a problem or a subject here, in the parliament, it explains the size of that problem, the management of companies or corporations, the quality of food and diet, and the problem of noise at this moment. Today's issue can be addressed from different points of view, if I am interested in what I am saying: from an educational point of view, from a health point of view and also from an environmental point of view, but also from a point of view of the working conditions of the professionals in the sector, because we are talking about the noise of the dining rooms and it is also true that we cannot aspire to the silence of the museums, but I think we can improve something. There is a study of the air and food justice of the NGO Global Food Justice, which points out – and the users of the eaters point out – the complaints and the problem of noise, also relating it to the spaces in which the eaters are in. But this problem of noise, which is also – as I said – the right facilities, is also the problem of the school environment itself and the coexistence of the centres. That is why it is important that the motion and also the improvements that we have introduced from our group, such as measurements, but not only from the school dining rooms, but from our group we also proposed all the facilities, because we think that the noise problem goes far beyond the actual dining rooms. That is why we were also introducing the contribution of the comprehensive plan, which is a bit lame, so we have not signed the transaction; we will support many of the points on which agreement has been reached; but, well, we were a little short. In addition, we introduced, to the points made by the People's Party in its motion, an educational and awareness-raising component to the student, but also to the whole educational community, in order to improve the quality of the environment, that this would also improve, therefore, the educational quality and the vital quality of the student's life. And that, as I said, we will vote for points, because it has become a bit scarce. We were also making improvements in the motion, in that comprehensive noise control plan in all the installations, reviewing, for example, the number of people who use the installations, the quality of the installations, both in minor works. – as Mrs Bengoechea commented – as in other types of larger interventions that need to be made: soundproofing, light, or the standards or cohabitation pacts within schools. Also, from a point of view, what we are talking about is noise management. The disappearance of noise is probably completely impossible in an educational environment, but indeed, by improving the management of noise in schools, because I believe that it will improve – and we and we believe that it will improve – the quality of education. The problems also exist in those ages where it is important to create friendly environments, for example, to improve hearing or to avoid problems also for students with special educational support needs, a better environment, more lasai We also introduced the subject of the infrastructure plan, and it also seemed to us to be important and very positive one of the measures introduced in this case by the EH Bildu group on the issue of improving the ratio. We think there's a lot of eskas left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u21	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u22	Gracias, president. Well, I will be brief because this, as Mrs De Bengoechea said, is a common-sense issue and therefore common-sense issues should not give rise to excessive problems, although that is not always the logic of political positions; it seems fortunately, in this case, yes. As Mrs De Bengoechea rightly said, the World Health Organization rates the level of noise based on the fact that, from 55 decibels, it affects health. Taking into account Royal Decree 1367/2007 of 19 October, implementing Law 37/2003 of 17 November 2003 on Noise, as regards acoustic zoning, quality objectives and acoustic emissions, the recommended level is set at 60 decibels in the school dining rooms. And this is where we have to act. It is up to us to create and secure scenarios and places in schools, which bring together these dining rooms for students, which are safe and which, of course, do not affect health. It is true that, as an argument, he used an example that is not strictly Euskadi's responsibility. It does not compete because we were talking about Catalonia in particular, and there have been no soundings in the dining rooms of the schools of our autonomy, nor has the impact that this could have on both monitors and teachers and, above all, on children been assessed. But this does not mean that this situation does not occur in the dining rooms of the Basque educational centres. In fact, they occur, and the decibels caused and the noise generated may exceed the WHO limit. This is a situation that affects students who, in addition, live with it and also the task of teachers that is also difficult. It is difficult to cope with constant noises, and it leads them to have to make a greater effort to carry out their work: the task of teaching with the best possible quality. But, above all, it is true that the most affected are students and students, because noise, in addition to affecting health, finally affects the ability to concentrate, and therefore will also impact even on academic results. The Department of Education is aware of this situation, and is already working in the environments where the school dining rooms are located, to improve the conditions of this service, not only so that the menu is balanced, but also to make this space a healthy place. There are more factors that can affect the health and safety of students than simply eating, and this problem is one of them. It is true that when making these improvements, account must be taken of the specific conditions, urban or building conditions of each of them, but it must be possible to reduce this noise pollution and to make the relevant measurements in order to know what decibels they achieve and act accordingly, providing them with the necessary measures to try to reverse this situation. In addition, the prevention service of the Department of Education is studying and analysing this situation with the collaboration of the schools, because there is no other way to do so than in collaboration with them. That is why this amendment has been tabled with the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, to which I congratulate myself, urging the Department of Education to carry out noise measurements in schools where necessary, in order to be able to draw up a strategic noise map to assess the noise pollution to which boys and girls are exposed. The department is also urged to draw up, and present to the Education Commission, a noise reduction plan in the school canteens at an estimated time, because, of course, what is our primary responsibility is to ensure that boys and girls live together in the healthiest environment possible. And speaking of education – because this is also education – you have to avoid any problem that can generate students a bad learning environment that, in the end, causes a decrease in their abilities. I congratulate myself, indeed, on the agreement reached, because, as the representative of Bildu said, the dining rooms must also be an educational space within the school, and for them to be, they must have pleasant conditions for the professionals who attend the dining room, for the teachers and also for the children. Therefore, we understand that once the material or building aspects of the buildings that house the dining rooms have been resolved, there remains a very important part, which is what we take up in the fifth point, which says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Education to design and implement an extra awareness campaign in all educational centres, which aims to ensure that the school dining rooms are healthy and with an acceptable level of noise". For one simple thing: the place can be perfectly adapted, the noise may have disappeared, but the children keep talking, they keep screaming, they keep raising the tone. Therefore, this requires educational work, learning and awareness-raising of how to express oneself in a kind, reasonable way, because that is also an important part of making school eaters an educational space, not only for food, but also for the whole educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u24	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. Well, because of an interpelation in the All of Control, 8 June, we have an argument to discuss, a motion that has been introduced around the noise in the dining rooms of our schools. And, well, to call the cries and laughter that children make, I don't really like them much, but it must be confessed, for a long time, that there's a lot of noise in these deserts, isn't it? And not only the children, but in the dining-rooms, in particular, the voices of grown-ups that work there must be added to increase the noise, and, moreover, the instruments which every day use in it, have their usual noise, which, to increase the noise, certainly plays its part. The noise generally occurs in the schools, not only in the dining-rooms or in the playrooms, but in the rooms. And even the professors who work in it require an effort to do their work well, and the children require a greater effort of concentration, and the result may not be as good as they ought to be. But today we came here to talk about the dining room and identify the problem there. I'd say that's what I was thinking about. The Board of Education has been working on this subject for a long time, and it has been mentioned before, not a work that has started from both areas. On one side, measuring the noise and making the correct measurements work, well, I think it's logical to take measures in the area where noise is made. And about it It has also been argued that it is necessary to reduce normalisation and education to that region where noise takes place, and to cultivate it, not only with the students, but also with their teachers and their workmen. We must work on physical space, too, but this other work must be the complement of this operation, and there is a noise and sound unit in all the schools, which schools have in their hands to set this special education round them. Inasmuch as restaurants are adapted, and it has also been mentioned that the law sets a maximum number of decibellions for dining-rooms, and it is certain that in the measurements which have been made this number of decibellions is much higher, and cannot be admitted, because it is a remarkable contagion, and has a right influence on the persons who are present, and if we consider that children of very small age exist every day in these regions, because their influence is also fatal to their health. They're also working on prevention services from the Board of Education. I also believe that it must be a co-ordinate and shared work, especially because when the school demands it it, and that is why we said that it is well to measure our corrections in the centres, but perhaps it is not necessary in all schools, at least in certain schools, because it can be solved in the manner of the works that can be done. It is another thing, well, that to educate, to take care of children, what effects of noise are to be done, and so on. But I think it is absolutely necessary, when we examine it from the preventive services, to work together with the schools. In reply to his interpelation, he also said that a pilot of initiative with 10 schools in 2010 has also been launched, and well, he has been successful, and perhaps he has to extend that experience to other schools. Many things can be done: it is not necessary to transform the dining-rooms from top to bottom, but even with smaller works, well, the problem of noise can be solved. And in the interpelation, he said, in response, there have been many things done during the 2016-2010 course, not only in the dining-rooms, but in the end, within the education system, there are many other fields, so many other noises. And, for example, in the areas of professional education, there are classes, or, well, other resources, and there are many things done by the budget of small works. The question of semaphors has been mentioned, I think, with some rhymes at my disposal, and I believe that, if we go into the world of children, such things may be necessary, and also intelligible, from the mentality of children, to express this measure by colours, I think, from the moment when they set foot in motion, well, those who have heard it would even reflect on it, and I believe it is not a measure to be measured out. For my part, I thank Mrs. Bengochea as well. I think, when he announced his motion, he announced a motion to protect and not an opposition movement, and I believe that we have been able, in the most important matters, to arrive at an agreement. It seems that the middle course of the Podemos and EH Shades has not been signed together, the point which we have agreed to have been too mild or too mild about the screening of the dining-room. But I believe, too, that perhaps this is not a question of discussion to-day. 2000. The order of the year plainly tells us, that the business of the school watchman's ratios is not a matter of agreement with the unions, and I think, a few months ago, it closed down with a sector of dining-room and cleanness. And that all this had been worked out too. We have agreed, however, to make an inquiry, to renew this story of rations, and we shall see what the result is. And what I said was: It is important, however, that the productions, improvements, should be made in the dining-rooms, should be made to prevent noise, and to educate our children and children who walk there. I'm sure that when they eat at home and dine they don't make half the noise that they make in the restaurants of the schools. I think that we parents in households have a great deal to do when our children grow up, and I think we ought to educate them even when they're out of doors and behave and walk properly. And that's where, too, the respect we have to be with other people. That doesn't make as much noise as possible, in those areas where they move every day. Well, I just want to congratulate you, because I think, even if the two teams have asked to vote in point, it's a great deal of agreement, and I think that we all have to do something about it in order to solve this question of acoustic infection. But I believe, too, that when the subject is discussed by an interpelation, we ought to confine ourselves to the sphere of what was spoken there, and not take advantage of it here, Mrs. Rockybe, so that perhaps some day there may be a worm in a menu in some college. I don't think that's the thing to say here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u26	Thank you, Madam President, Member of the Government, Members of Parliament. There is little left to say in reality. What we would like is to set priorities. Let's see. As an Administration – and I understand both the Executive and this legislature – what we must assume is what is our responsibility. And our first responsibility is physical spaces. We were told by the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party that there may be no need in some schools or schools. I start thinking and I find it hard to find one that I didn't need. As if in some very very old ones that remain... But those that have been done from the early 80s to here, are likely to need it all, because we all know the structure: terrace floor, block walls and concrete beams cover. And that's repeated in most centers. There are some old ones that have been remodeled, that have wooden floors, but I find it difficult to find, because almost all of them have already been closed; and that have very thick walls. In Bilbao, some buildings that were built in the Second Republic are still being used, and these probably absorb much more noise. And I don't know if here in... "It's what I know most about in Bilbao," but I don't know if there will still be schools in Vitoria from that time, from the Second Republic. Those probably absorb the noise very well. But most schools made from the early 1980s to here, for probably hygienic reasons and for reasons of easy maintenance, have that composition. Then, in those, the noise bounces. The noise bounces! So, for us, therefore, the main thing is to fix physical space, because that is our responsibility. And not at great cost. I say to you: there are companies, multitudes, that are dedicated to this, and that it is not very difficult to put, if it is not a total solution, a good remedy. Returning to the children, when we visited that center, we had as interlocutors the group Elikadura Gure Ardura, and this group, although we were in a center, represented – I don't want to exaggerate, but I think I have in mind – the number of 11 centers around. And I was impressed that these representatives of 11 centers, the first thing they told us was that they did not recognize the children in the dining room for the bad behavior they had, which was not repeated in other areas, neither in school, nor in the domestic environment, nor in leisure life. That bad behavior, they blamed it on the irritability and excitability produced by the high decibels. I remember that very well. So, with regard to one thing that Mr Pastor has said, I would like to say that it is true: we have used the example of Catalonia, but that was also used by the adviser, because there is no data here. So, it's a data we use, because it's the autonomous community that has done the sonometry, but we were pleased to see that it's the same data that the counselor was handling. So, for us, first priority: physical spaces. And from there, the next priority is the educational area, calm socialization. And to achieve this, I, of course, do not ridicule nor the traffic lights, which use them in many places, nor other things that the counselor proposed, which are also being introduced to other places, such as the polycarbonate dish, the glasses of the same, the forks; things that make no noise... I think it's all splendid. But I do recognize the contribution of EH Bildu, because, in this new socialization in the dining room, we will need human resources. Children, by the art of birlibirloque, by many traffic lights that put them on and as much as noise does not bounce, need human resources to improve. And I, in the seconds that I have left, would take the opportunity to introduce a subject, which I know is difficult, but which is the subject of volunteering. Perhaps we should consider whether these human resources could come from volunteering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u27	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Ms. Lopez de Rockye, representing EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u28	Yeah. Good morning again. Mrs Berasaluze, the first thing to tell you is that we were a representation of this Parliament to Muskiz, and the first thing they told us is that traffic lights are useless. I don't ridicule him; they told us there: as soon as it's out of fashion, no one listens to them. So let's see if the traffic lights are valid or not. Mrs De Bengoechea said, to which I have to thank in fact that she takes our positions, that the issue of ratios is not ratios, they are people. It's so simple, I mean, we don't talk about traffic lights, we talk about softening the jantokis. We have said it and we will repeat it once again: they use the jantoki We didn't go to Muskiz because he gave us a wand in the head; we went because there were problems. That's as simple as that! It is a subject that needs to be worked on from different points of view: I have said it before and I repeat it again. As we know, putting traffic lights can serve the first day, at the moment that it makes grace, until grace passes and it stops being fashionable: there, at that moment, the effect ends. You have to think about people, not just the boys and girls who get there in a moment of relief, but about the people who are taking care of them. Mr. Pastor said that the 2000 rule marks 60 decibels. 60 decibels is the traffic of a city – between 40 and 60 – between the traffic of a city and an escape engine. Who in this House would go to a dining room tomorrow, paying a pretty expensive menu, with that noise on top of their heads? No one. Point! The debate is in society; this government is behind it; let's get in the car. The situation of the Jantokis I, personally, am looking forward to the end of the course tomorrow so that my children can go home and, like me, 90% of the people who have a chance of their children eating at home, that is another. Noise is just a symptom of this system; nothing more. It is to treat a pedagogical space as if it were a simple cafeteria, to which you have to go necessarily to eat. I think a lap does deserve it. And already a little to evaluate the amendments and the erdibidekoa The PNV and the PSOE absolutely congratulate you because you get to approve something that marks nothing; it does not set great goals, it does set a path, but it should be done. That is to say, on the other hand, just to congratulate them. It's the noise we've asked for today for precise measures, but well, they'll have to be connected with workers too. The more educators you get, the less you're in trouble. That's why it was our intention to force the right action. I don't know if we can or not, but... On our side, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u29	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez mustn't speak. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Yeah, from there, Eubertarians... Mrs. la larse, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u30	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. What I said before: I think the deal, what we've accomplished, is good. I must tell you, the members of the legislature who are not so pleased with the arrangement, that your amendments have not stopped so many things in the middle of the line. From the correction of adding to Mrs. Larangeabe, you say in the ratios of the ratios, that it may adjust the rules of year 2000, which is the purpose of making a revision of the ratios; but you advance that there are more men of education. And we believe, perhaps, that after that examination, the conclusion will not be so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u31	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u32	That's why we're asking you to take a look at our middle course. But this must not necessarily lead to the conclusion that there must be more educators. And together with the Representative of Podemos, something like this: I believe that what has been received in your correction of the whole world, and what has been received to-day, is not so different. And it seems that you have the greatest disagreement about the points agreed on around the ratios, but you did not mention the question about the people in the dining room in your full correction. So I don't know why you decided not to sign the media. I think your arguments are not so strong. And I, well, thank you again, Mrs. Bengochea, because this deal has been possible and I think it's clear to you that it's all happening to you and that we're having fun, that we're really worried about this problem. We have children too, children who go to the dining room. I see my children eating at home, too, but I don't think they're so improper all year long, at least in those restaurants where my children have gone, and I've always sent them to public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. And what we're going to vote for is the right thing to add to the EH Collect team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u34	The add correction was not therefore accepted. Next, the Euscal Socialists, the Basque Popular Groups, and the Middle Amendment signed by Eucus Abertist. You're asking for stitches, if you tell me how you want to do it. Different? Oh, one by one. Okay, then we vote one by one. Well, we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 57; the contrary is 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u35	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u36	So the second point is accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u37	The third point is approved. Next, fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 57; the contrary is 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u38	The fourth point is approved. And finally, we vote for the fifth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u39	So the fifth point has been accepted with a mouth. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: Moment, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, about the obvious irregularity of the 2016-7 working offers of Osar. The Moment, introduced together by Cristina Macazaga Saánz, a member of the Podemos, about the LEPs of Osa. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera. Rebeka, Rebeka... 10 minutes. He knows, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u40	Good morning, everyone. We see health department and Osarists in this case in the reactional attitude. Instead of being active, we see them in a reactive attitude. First it was denial, then the attack on those who brought out the alleged irregularities, and now it is the defensive: a yes but no. The Medical Department has finally been forced to file a report. You've been forced to ask yourself for a research report, seeing that the amount of work offers was the amount of the public's trial. At least, though late and forced, you took a step. What we hope for is that this step will come to the end, and not be left in a mere tramite. The Government says that it is the first interested in investigating and clarifying what has happened. I look forward to seeing you again, age ez generated through burokratiko batan. He says he is willing to repeat the exams; ba, you have zaitezte azterketak loanzen, Darpón jauna. He says he's willing to take responsibility. Galdera da: politicokoak era? Zeren gauza beats judicial bideletik zehaztu daitezkeenak eta beast gauza beats say politicikoak. Because when you talk about political matters, we think it's our business to take political initiative. And we have to talk about taking political initiative. We need to talk to see if the Health Department will always be ready to end the irregular prax, to put an end to the immunity. And that is the question, which is here today: Is this government prepared to take measures to prevent this again? This is what's in the heart here. We don't want to doubt the word of the counselor. But then, why didn't you take the initiative from the very beginning? Why didn't you do it from the very beginning? Not for us or for opposition groups, but for respect for opposition people. Out of respect and humility. But what we've seen has been a defensive counselor. We have seen a director of Osakidetza trying to hide reality from public opinion, and we have seen a director of Human Resources who exalts the guarantees of the process. Do you really think that we could talk in this situation, at this moment, of transparency, of guarantees? You really think that you can talk about the guarantees and transparency of this public offer? From now on we expect more actions; more actions, more measures, which we wish to see in the government; we wish to see firmness in the government, we wish to see guarantees on the government's side, and to see the changes of the system in the government. As I said the other day, the man in charge here is the model of the Ossar. That's what's in the heart here. There seem to be some who do not want to understand or do not understand, but that is what is in the heart, and if this does not change here, even though the model of OPE changes, because the same thing will happen, which has hitherto happened to us, and which is now exploded, and if it does not change, whether it will come to pass or not. But there will be no guarantees that a public offering can be made with all assurances, and the principle of equality of choice. The impunity will continue in force, and I wanted to ask Mr. Darpón the right question, but he has gone away, and the question is, whether this government is ready to maintain and give its purpose with the steps he is doing, and with his skill. Why do we say this? Well, this is what we call a coincidence that the temporary rate in Osacas is not supported by these high grades. Thus the professionals who are in a state of temporary suspense have only to submit themselves to the elites in order to get a fixed square one day. This is the case in several fields: passas por el era, sí o sí, para conseguir Square fija. That's the system. It is not a coincidence that there are different models of agreement in the Osas and in the subjective criteria (the contract for the construction, the fair, stable, and flexible curriculum), and, moreover, without linking the code of the workposts; it is not a chance model for the management of the lists. It's not a coincidence! Eta jaun-andreok, hori guztiori aldatzen ez den bitartean, you can do an OPE drill, you can do a stone cardboard OPE, but everything will remain the same; there will be no guarantees. And it's urgent to consider all this. It is necessary to take a turn to personal politics, to examine and introduce improvements, to make public offers with all assurances, to penetrate into the stability of the workers, and to acquire politics for this purpose. Otherwise, how can one understand those who are excellent professionals in the diary, and who are here proclaimed not to exceed them? Who understands that? Or how is it possible to present themselves to the OPE at the age of 50 and 60? I don't understand. And we have several questions. And why didn't the exams get over it? Because they were too hard? Because they were too easy? How did the exams go? There are some questions that you need to investigate. And this, as far as we can judge, is not a theme for amusement. It doesn't have to be a media explosion theme, it doesn't have to be a power to raise dust. We are facing a very delicate subject. The job of thousands of people is at stake. I don't know if any of you have been through an audition process. I guess so. I do, and you know what it is. You know what it is, and we can't play tricks. We have to be serious. It must be our priority to solve this matter, and because it has been our priority to solve this matter, our educating party has been ready to do it, though not comfortable for us, although it has also been difficult for us to agree with the government. And the deal was almost closed. We were ready to get wet! But with exact measurements and solutions for purposes. But our condition, the government, and even our rival groups, has been to get a band of opposites to the core, to study personal politics, and the government refused to. He went back. Why? He'll have to explain himself, not us. Not us! We've been responsible for everything. Our object is not to save the government, or to be united with all the opposition groups, and to shake the opposition. No. Our goal is to solve these thousands of tanks as fast as possible, because what they play is not nonsense. That's our point! And I don't want you to hear these excuses from the government because we wanted the unions to come in, I don't know... No, no, no. We were prepared to leave everything aside, but our only condition was to set a crew in motion to study a personal policy model change. I'm just checking it out. So, what's the purpose of this government to put an end to this impunity or to continue the same? Do something fake, makeup, chapa y painting y a sur? This must be ended, it must be established, it is necessary to purge the administration's name, to ensure the equality of opportunity, and to ensure that the public ought to give answers to the people, and that the citizens ought to be placed in the centre, and to act with responsibility on all sides. Because Ostainment isn't EAJ's, member of the government, Osacism belongs to the people, it's everybody's, and we all have to be responsible and honest. And that's why we have to study and determine all sorts of precautions, we have to change the OPE model, we have to go down to the heart, we have to study personal politics in depth and change them. And there must be steps to be taken, and we shall remain firm with him who stands beside us until the trial is solved: and we will go to the table, and make measures, for once our end is with impunity, and no one will tell us, if this happens again, it is a common practice, which has always happened. No, that's the end of it, because if that happens again, it's the ruin of all, and if that happens again, you'll tell me, the government will have to explain, it'll be Merino, Margüello, Darpón or Urkullu...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Macazaga Saánz, the word is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. "What surprised me most when I moved from Primary Care to Specialized Hospital Care was to discover that the OPEs to cover the vacancies of medical specialists are usually a pantomime, and that this is a fact known and tolerated, to a greater or lesser extent, by colleagues, the Administration and the unions. I know first-hand how this farce works. I know from the testimonies of colleagues from other specialties that in many of them the dynamics are similar. "The qualifying courts for the selective process of the OPEs of the various specialties are composed, in a large proportion, of chiefs and chiefs of service. They divide the places to be awarded, and, on the basis of their list, the elected or elected persons give them, before the test, questions of the exam or all the examination to the aspiring persons to whom they have a place in that OPE. The identity of the person examined is also taken into account when correcting the test. "This method would have the theoretical goodness of assigning the places according to the seniority of the aspirants; but, as it is easily imagined, it is not the only criterion that is followed when granting a place. It's hard for someone to get a chance, and family, courtesans, and bereaved friends often jump their tails. "What leads this to that for many hospital workers is a secret to you? "To forms of caciquiles administration, amigoism, palace intrigues. In short, the sad print of public and public servants managing public resources and salaries as their own. As a public health user, I find it overwhelming to think that many of the doctors who maintain a hospital and have a place of property, regardless of their professional competence, have been able to get it by cheating on an exam. "To conclude, I would like to make a call from here to the specialists to be brave and start speaking without fear. This has to end. The hands that feed us are those of Basque citizenship, not that of our superiors. To those who feel at ease splashing in this fangal, I would like to remind you that covering up or participating in corrupt acts is corruption. Even though we disguise it as folklore or blindly believe in its inevitability. "Compañeros and compañeras, if you know that the emperor is naked, point it out too, it's time for him to stop making a fool of himself and get dressed at once." I close quotes. This is the extract of a letter that my group received at the beginning of March. In Elkarrekin Podemos, we thought we couldn't allow this to happen in our Basque Health Service, Osakidetza. My group has contacted a number of people affected and affected by these practices, willing to cooperate in order to put an end to this type of corruption. They had gone to Ararteko and the Prosecutor's Office, warning of what was happening in the OPEs in Osakidetza. The first, Ararteko, suggested to them that, at the time of the leak they denounced, they raise the matter with the Administration so that it could have an opportunity to express itself on it, and if it did not reply to it, it could again file its complaint with that institution. The Office of the Prosecutor reported that it filed pre-trial proceedings as it lacked any criminal relevance. None of the affected persons submitted a previous claim in Osakidetza. For fear of reprisals. Elkarrekin Podemos considered that the only way to turn a suspicion into evidence was to register with the notary a record of demonstrations, where the names of the persons who assured us were to be awarded the places for having received the envelope in question. When the results were published, a week later, we were the first to be surprised to see that, in fact, the places were awarded a priori. Today, Osakidetza has only opened administrative files and paralysed four specialties. Why four and not 14, when, however, the commissioned work at the University of Oviedo is on the whole of OPE 2018? We've got it all figured out. We don't suspect all the tests. In fact, we believe that the more than 1,000 members of the various OPE 2018 courts should be respected, as well as the more than 80,000 opponents, who have already been examined or are in the process of doing so. Last weekend, we found that the OPEs celebrated were completely normal, where, for example, out of the 12,000 people opposed to administrative assistant, none obtained a 100, something within normality. Mr Darpón reduced the scope of OPE fraud to only 2.5% of the seats. Statements that show how normal this type of irregularity is accepted. The percentage should be 0%. All the opponents, all of them, should have been guaranteed equal opportunities. Not just at 97,5 %. We have a counselor who acted late and wrong and who does not trust statistics, but hires a statistical and psychometric study to solve this crossroads. We have an investigation carried out by Osakidetza, whose investigation is led by a person presiding over a court of one of the OPEs. Elkarrekin We can demand an independent, thorough and impartial investigation of each and every OPE as a specialist, in order to verify whether a fundamental right in access to public service, such as equal opportunities, has been violated, and we demand to clear responsibilities. We demand measures to ensure that selection processes are absolutely transparent, verifiable and with a full guarantee of equal opportunities for aspiring people, because we believe that the professionals of Osakidetza must be taken care of. But taking care of them, it's not filtering their exam; that's called customer corruption. In Elkarrekin Podemos, we want our public health system to be a state and international benchmark in its results and products. Now we have a chance, if Mr. Darpón makes the right decisions, to clean up OPE 2018 and to make an Osakidetza stronger and more ethical. They show that there is an unequivocal will to end this abuse of the foundations of professional ethics and that it promotes favoritism. Please put on the emperor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u44	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of the department, members of the legislature. Again, we talk about the public offer that's being shared. It seems that this subject does not end, and we discussed this two weeks ago in this full discussion of this subject in a plinous of control, and different parties, different aspects of opposition, directed questions to the government. I hope, Mr Councillor, that today he is not as angry as last day 8, when in some way the groups that we represent the opposition in this Parliament made a criticism of the actions of the Government, of the Councillor and also of the Director General of Osakidetza – I was addressing Mr Arriola; I thought it was Mr Darpón; but, indeed, Mr Darpón sits more to my left, more to Mr Arriola's right, but he is not; well, they will move him or I imagine he will be in the house also following the debate, let us hope that through the internal channel –... But, as I said, the events have been happening, and we sincerely consider that both the advisor and the director general of Osakidetza have not been up to the task. And I say this because they reacted late and wrong, in our opinion, and, above all, also according to some statements this weekend, we believe that they have minimized the possible... or irregularities, suspicions or indications of irregularities that may have occurred in Osakidetza. And I say this because the first appearance was Monday afternoon, 4 in the afternoon, after the opposition groups came out here in the morning in Parliament. And then the counselor, when he leaves on Monday, says that there are no complaints and that no evidence concerning hospital medical specialties is going to be paralyzed. Two days later, on Wednesday, day 6, not the counselor, the director general of Osakidetza leaves in a public appearance, accompanied by the director of health care, in which he already announces the first suspensions and already talks about complaints. The Councilman remains unexplained, and the Councilman – after what he gave that Monday, but in which he obviously absolutely minimized all the consequences and information that was being known about the signs of irregularities in this OPE – appears here on Friday in this Parliament, and I have to say that the tone was absolutely inadequate in relation to the criticisms that the opposition groups legitimately made. And once again, Mr. Counsellor, in the answer – no longer just in the tone, obviously, but in the answer – I think it was not up to the circumstances. Why am I saying this? Because you can't throw balloons out and you can't throw balloons out, when there was already a paralyzed medical test on Monday, when the counselor shows up here on Friday with more suspended evidence, when the Ararteko has initiated an ex officio investigation, when complaints have been transferred to the Prosecutor's Office – and, therefore, will proceed to the opening of the relevant investigation proceedings – when information files have been opened in the Osakidetza area, which we would also like to know who is preparing these dossiers, how they are being prepared; but, well, all this information, we will have an opportunity to ask for it. Therefore, on the one hand, it has not been up to the circumstances, by the maximum responsible for Basque public health and by the Director-General of Osakidetza. And another issue that has seemed to us serious, and that has not given peace of mind, is to give sufficient guarantees to all the opponents who have presented themselves, who are also awaiting examination, when all this news was coming to light. We are talking about 96,000 opponents, who aspire to have an opportunity for the future, to have a stable job in the 3,335 places that have been called. I would also like to remind you that this OPE started badly, and this OPE started badly, because, in our view, the call was made with absolute speed. We believe, and we think so, and on the basis of the information we have, and that is why we have also asked for detailed information in Parliament, that the procedure has not been accompanied by the proper guarantees that they had to cover the whole procedure. And I am referring to the legal reports, which have covered the calls, the elaboration of the evidence, the degree of difficulty of the evidence. Who he's hired. Rather, to whom has the VATP been contracted for the carrying out of the tests. Those experts we already know have signed – and the advisor reiterated – a confidentiality clause. But we want to know in what terms this confidentiality clause has been signed, and who has done those tests of the VATP examinations. That is, also what happens to the suspicions of the screenings. If there are suspicions and leaks in the tests, which are ultimately confirmed, in which chain of the whole procedure has occurred. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is not to sow a general doubt, but that is why we believe, precisely in order not to sow a general doubt, and precisely also in order to highlight many professionals who do their job well, that this Government must act with absolute force and reach the end. And there are a number of issues that we believe, from the Group of the European People's Party, that need to be absolutely clarified in these stages of research. How have the exams been done? Who did the exams? What has been the degree of difficulty of the exams? The adequacy of the tests carried out. What has been the role of VATP? The coincidence of the number of approved places with the number of places offered, which appears to be in some categories and which has raised suspicions. And if leaks have occurred, when have these possible leaks been produced? I'm finishing up... I have to say that we have reached a compromise agreement between the three opposition groups. I think it is also fair to thank Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga for their efforts. I think there were many points in common to reach an agreement, but we also had to work on it. And as far as the People's Party is concerned, well, we are satisfied with the outcome of the final agreement; but, above all, because there are points that we have introduced in our text, which we believe had to be collected anyway. It is the total clarification of the facts, reaching the end. To reach the end, if we also want to save the good name of Osakidetza and do not question the work of so many professionals and the professionalism of the staff of Osakidetza. Purify responsibilities and get to where you have to go. And any irregularities, also to be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office. That is to say, any irregularity, which is transferred to the Office of the Prosecutor, not that it is the Government here, which is the result of the investigations it is conducting and the files and information, the one which gives its opinion and the one which concludes the type of irregularity. Well, but the irregularities that are transferred to the Office of the Prosecutor, so that, where appropriate, the Office of the Prosecutor will initiate such informational proceedings as it deems appropriate. It is also important for us to ensure strict compliance with existing law in the future. It also seems to us that, in the future – because there are plans for new OPEs to be convened – the principles that appear to be unwarranted in this OPE are absolutely guaranteed. And we believe that this is really worrying, and it is really what needs to be done to ensure that it does not happen again in the future, which is to guarantee the principles of equality, merit and capacity, and to ensure absolute transparency and impartiality in a selective process of these characteristics. We therefore also believe that it is appropriate for the Government to send us a study, within four months, with proposals and with such measures as may be necessary, in the light of the findings of the investigations resulting from all the irregularities that have been detected. And that measures be put in place to ensure that the OPEs in the future adhere, as I say, to strict compliance with legality, and to the principles of equality, merit and capacity. On the other hand, we do not think it is wrong, and we have supported it, that a working group should be set up to analyse the selection processes of the OPEs, and that it should also be able to analyse the model of personnel policy in that working group. But, to us, what we are really concerned about is that the selection processes for public offers of employment are analysed, and those issues that have not worked well and are obviously under suspicion, that are absolutely remedied, in order to guarantee, as I say, the principles inherent in any selective process and, above all, what is the transparency and impartiality that must be so in any selective process and in any Osakidetza public offer, or any public offer that is convened by this Government. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u45	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u46	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Having listened to the three opposition groups, I think we could conclude by saying that we share the concern for the cleansing of the process, of this one and of all. The concern that the procedure should be fair in this opposition and, of course, in all those convened by the Basque Government and, of course, respect for the professionals who work in Osakidetza and who perform their work in the best possible way. I therefore believe that perhaps we could have reached an agreement. I believe that they have been tried on the part of all, but, finally, it seems that we have not been able to conclude by sharing the compromise amendment on all points. After a few weeks of media controversy, questions and questions in Parliament and speeches, especially from some in the media, at last today, we discussed two motions concerning the demand for clarification of what happened around the last public opposition for Osakidetza. The Socialists hope that this process, agreed with the trade unions who have wanted it, because it was agreed, will culminate cleanly and with all the guarantees. This is what tens of thousands of people who have been looking for a stable and quality job opportunity to provide a public service deserve. And this is also what the whole of Basque citizenship deserves, which is the one that should receive this service, which its professionals have taken up by demonstrating that they are the best qualified to guarantee them the right to health. After contrasting the information, to which I believe we have all had access, and working in a rigorous way with the information received, I think I can begin by saying: On the one hand, that this OPE is carried out by introducing improvements agreed and demanded by a part of the trade union representation; it is carried out in a transparent and professional way, and this OPE has never – and I say never – been questioned by its procedure, even if they now want to appear otherwise. It is true that a part of the unions considered – and consider today too – the number of places insufficient, but there was a lack of agreement: in the disagreement in the number of places to be offered to cover the demand for places in Osakidetza. We all know the chronology of these oppositions: on June 1, we all know the first clue, but it is also true that Osakidetza acts quickly, because it does so that same day; therefore, we cannot agree to say that it is not acted quickly. And the first decisions have already been made: the investigation of the 86 courts is being opened and, as is well known, an analysis has been commissioned at the University of Oviedo – which has also been said thus– an independent analysis of all the results to deepen transparency and guarantees. On the other hand, they have been cautiously paralysed and information files have been opened in four specialties and it is also true that the rest of the OPE is proceeding normally, because we could not accept that it was otherwise. On this occasion, there is no doubt about the action of the Government. Yesterday, Mr Darpón, in a means of public communication, acknowledged the need to take decisions as quickly as possible, and raised the importance of clarifying what has happened and, for that purpose, we are working with transparency and speed. What so far calls for opposition. I have started this speech by talking about the changes introduced in the OPE and, for the Socialist Group, the changes have been important: On the one hand, the courts are equal. Now it seems that no one cares, when this is always claimed. It is the first exercise with responsibility for VATP, and what is no less important, the score of the exercises of the opposition phase was changed, in addition to the fact that on this occasion the opposition phase note would be valid for the OPE 2018-2019. If we had to put this situation aside from the media that we think it should be, we would say that more than 3,000 places are offered, 86 courts, 1,376 people, between presidents, members and secretaries. It is the second most important job offer in Osakidetza's history. We recognize that it was a questioned OPE; we must also acknowledge that it was an agreed OPE. The courts were composed of professionals and not public offices, and this I think is a fact to review. In each of the courts, there is trade union representation; there is a follow-up commission. Today, we understand that there is no conclusive evidence, and I am one of those who believe in the principle of innocence. When you prove otherwise, we'll see. But we believe that we should not forget this principle. The Basque Socialists are going to make progress on this issue. It is essential to act with all the force and rigour necessary to remove the slightest shadow of doubt that could be on any of the evidence. In order to eliminate any shadow of doubt, any evidence of irregularities must be paralysed, as has been requested here, but this has already been done by the Government. After the cessation of such evidence, if the slightest irregularity is detected, clear the responsibilities of any kind, including the penalties that may be adopted, and restart the procedure so that these places can be consolidated with the best qualified personnel, with full guarantees of equal access. And finally, if these irregularities are confirmed, when the point at which they have occurred is detected, take immediate corrective measures for future OPEs in Osakidetza or anywhere else in the public administration. Let us not forget that this OPE of these weeks will have continuity next year and we must be extraordinarily guarantors. From this, which for socialists is nuclear, we can talk about management. I admit that anyone, without exception, can ask for explanations, in this case from Councillor Darpón. We defend, without nuances, that you have been asked to do so in the House, and you have no problem in accessing it. We believe that the adviser should give them as far as he knows, because it is his duty to ensure the transparency and legality of the process and to be accountable to Parliament. But we also argue, without nuances, that it has been a mistake to calculate the generalization of which some now want to avoid: the extension of suspicions about the whole of the evidence, to have come to ask that the tens of thousands of citizens who have been curing these tests not be examined; to speak of a known clientelism forever, that what it does is to question the more than 30,000 people who provide their services in Basque public health, as if they had not won it, and to be in the phase, some even, of asking for political resignations, without taking into account the presumptions of innocence. There is no objection to everyone understanding that they should ask. But first, we need to know where the point of responsibility for irregularities or suspicion is so that there could be them. And I have to say in this, that given the motions that are going to be debated today – which we are doing today – it is a shame that we have not been able to reach an agreement. Because seeing the text signed by the three opposition groups, I think there are more points on which we agree than on which we are against. But, in this first intervention, I will only talk about one thing that has been said here and that, of course, I cannot ignore, because I do not think that is true. It is true that the last point of the signed transactional amendment is that the Basque Parliament, in the first quarter of 2019, will set up a working group to analyse the model of personnel policy and selection processes in Osakidetza and, where appropriate, to make any relevant changes. The opposition groups know perfectly well that the government was willing to sign a text that said something similar like "the Basque Parliament urges the Department of Health, in the first quarter of 2019 – the same term – to form with the parliamentary groups – the same participants – a working group – let us call it a paper or working group – to analyse the model of personnel policy as a whole, in order to make the necessary improvements." So, in fact, I want to end up like I started. We all share the concern about what happened. I think I've started... I am speaking, although I should not, of the Councillor, as of this humble parliamentary spokesman, who says that what has actually happened in Osakidetza's opposition is a scandal. A scandal that we should also shield the more than 70,000 people who have decided to present themselves to this opposition. But we are politicians who must also work to shield Osakidetza's name and professionalism as a system. It is unfair that, having the professionals we have, the prestige that Basque public health has in the rest of Spain and elsewhere, let us question everything that has happened in recent years. The unions had been demanding the need to cover vacancies, because retirements were coming and this must be covered. The procedure has never been questioned, and today we are faced with a problem in which I believe that the parliamentary groups today in this Parliament should have looked more because it means that we would have been able to reach an agreement, in order to defend the Basque public health system, which is Osakidetza, rather than saving the government or not. Because I believe that today, in question, you are not saving Mr Darpón or the government led by Mr Urkullu, but that we should shield Osakidetza, who in the end is the one who gives service to the citizens and in whom, by the way, we are also included. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u47	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u48	Thank you, Mrs. President and all of you. Mr. President, first of all, members of the legislature, I'd like to begin by thanking everyone who's made the public offer of 2016-7 jobs, all the professional members of the Medical Department and Osarists who participated in the organization. For we know that this election-produce of great importance-has been exaggerated in the last few months, and therefore in the name of our party, our warm thanks. On the other hand, we wish to praise the terrible effort made by thousands and thousands of candidates who have contributed to this public offer, and to wish them all the best luck, even to express our commitment until the final conclusion of what has happened. When I say this, I wish to confirm this: the entire support of our party to Mr. Darpón and the management of the selection procedure that he is conducting. We can clearly see that this public offer has been designed from the first with complete transparency and all its guarantees, and we want to ask why, until today, until the time that the suspects are being reproached or explained, no one has been able to resist the appeals, why no one did it against the jury, and so on. So much suspicion, so much suspicion, so much suspicion, so much astonishment at what I have heard here, I wonder at what I have said in this letter, I am surprised to say that the suspicions, the suspicions that were out of the margin, and that there would be nothing to be done but excuses for the professional members of the local profession. It really surprises us not to say another thing. Edozein kasutan, we have no doubt that this OPE has been organized transparently and with all the guarantees. Nobody escapes that this is a very broad and very complex OPE and that failures and errors can be made, as in any procedure of these characteristics. But, for that very reason, what we want now, given the doubts that have arisen in recent weeks, is that the Department of Health and those responsible for Osakidetza do everything in their power to clarify everything that has happened with absolute transparency and rigour. That's what we mostly ask of the department and the counselor. Lehenengo irregulartasunak azaldu zirenetik, lehenengo zantzuak azaldu zirenetik, egin duzuen moduan, gardenasunez, zuhurtziz, zehaztasunez, azkartasunez eta berme guztiekin prozedu tu edo donden susmo horiek argitzeko. We ask you to act as you have done so far, with transparency, rigour, speed and all the guarantees to clarify as soon as possible any doubts that may exist at this time. Because the truth is that, despite the fact that so far there is no conclusive evidence, no one has been able to provide conclusive evidence, and in the face of the first signs of irregularities, we have already chosen to take appropriate action in the face of the events that were going on. And the first sign, Mrs. Garrido, occurred on June 1, when a letter was made known to the member of one of the courts. And Osakidetza acted with transparency and immediacy that same day. And the next day, on June 2, the director general of Osakidetza already appeared before the media to give all the appropriate explanations, according to all the information available at that time. Beraz, he's had enough brains to tell you. Among other things, an internal and complete investigation of the 86 courts has been initiated. An independent analysis has been commissioned from an external independent expert from the University of Oviedo to analyse all the results, all the tests, the results of all the tests. Information files have been cautiously stalled and opened in four specialties. In depth, eight other specialties are being analyzed and the rest of the tests are being kept normal, precisely because the situation is normal. In other words, there have been so many measures since the beginning, from the members of the Osarists: The internal investigation of the members began, an independent study, of all results, and in four specials the informers were opened, and the file was given to the intermediary, and he participated in the service of the Public Prosecutor too. So the measures have been taken from the start. OPEaren Jarraipen Batzordeak was information guztia doka eskuragarri, courtek eurek, epaimahaiek ere, information guztia daukate eskuragarri modu gardenean, kasuan-kasuan dagokion neurriak hartu ahal iziko, berme guztiekin. Beraz, all information will be transferred to Ararteko, which already participates in Osakidetza's internal files and, if necessary, also to the Prosecutor's Office. That has been said from the very beginning. And the Health Adviser himself will appear, on his own initiative, in this House to give all the explanations that are necessary and that are required by the groups. So, in front of this middle course of the day, really, as the former Basque Socialist has mentioned, the representative of the group, we are sorry that we have not succeeded. When we read it, we must state that we have had the opportunity to read it at the last moment, but that we have read it over to the first point, for all those measures above mentioned. We don't think it was just too late for you to react, and we don't think he did a bad job-the opposite. And as for the second point, we have no doubt about it. The priority is to clear it; now the priority is to clear it; to reveal all the doubts, suspicions, or signs there are. But he surprised us, and I believe that it is also very serious, to extend this accusation or suspicion of Mrs Garrido here about the professionals of IVAP or professionals hired by IV. We would like him to explain what these suppositions are, perhaps in the second round. But we don't think it's a good idea, we don't think it's allowable to spread such suspicions around the workers and professionals of IVAP, without any foundation. As for the third point, this is what he's doing. This study is doing, and there is no doubt that the chief physician of health will fulfil this engagement to give him all the explanations necessary as soon as the study is completed. As for the fourth point, the prosecutor already knows... he already has the offer. The offer has been received from the Medical Department, as well as from the headmasters of the Osalome, to associate with him without any problems, and to give him all the information and documentation he needs at the moment he wants. As to the fifth point, this is done already; the proceedings have ceased as I have said before, but are true foundations. No sign of any value. There must be a real foundation, and, following a real procedure, a developer procedure, a procedure where the rights of all persons will be respected. It's no good to say, "There's a suspect and let's cut the whole thing off." We believe that there must be an investigation, and that if the result of this investigation is that if we decide that a file should be opened, or that a file should be opened, we may be able to cancel the same procedure. As for the sixth point, this is already done. All the lists are public. We have therefore no objection to escape from it. And as for the seventh point, we believe that there is need for somebody to explain "que el Parlamento Vasco asta al Gobierno a velar por el cumpliniento de la legalidad vigente en las futuresiras OPE de Osa collation." Let someone explain to us what a non-fillment or the violation of the Osacism has been on this OPE or all the OPE's antecedents. So we'd like it if somebody had that information, let him explain what the breach was here. And as for the eighth point, as Ms. Rojo has just said, we were there. We're almost done agreeing to work out the crew. But it is true, that we think we ought also to respect the scope of each one, or the field of jurisdiction. And in this case, what we offered to get together that crew, and the members of the Parliament to participate in it, even if they were members of the funk or Osar, but... Around OPE, about OPE, or about the labour bites. We believe, therefore, that this must be a priority here, due to our respect for all those persons who have participated in this public offering, to clear this situation as soon as possible, to regain the reputation of Osarhood, and to recover the reputation of Osarhood as possible. And in that sense, we too would demand a vote. Just till the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. By answering, Mrs. Ubera, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u50	Well, sir, I'm really grateful you gave me your explanation and made it clear why you didn't accept this last point. That is to say, you only wanted to confine them to the model change of the OPE, not to the study and change of the politics of society. I appreciate that. I hope Mrs. Rojo heard that answer. I didn't mean to answer Miss Rojo or argue with her, but it seems sad to me to have to listen to her as a person who hasn't been in connection with her, and what lies it is, and how there were things to be told when I followed you. So, I think it's a little... Honesty, yes? And talk as it is. We've got it all figured out and we've done it that way. Our goal is to solve the case. And we were prepared to get wet, though we weren't comfortable. And though it's easier for us from the opposite to the government, it's made a crime with its hand. That's why we want the case solved as fast as we can, and we want the measures, the precautions, we want the firmness, not the reactivity. We are glad if we are going to make commitments to the government in this reactivity, and if it is ready today to accept certain measures, but what we would like to ask for is more firmness, more activeness, and more precise measures. We can't walk: Now we don't stop exams, we have one left, we have three left. No, no! Thousands of people's jobs are at stake, and they can't be played that way. That's not how it can be played in public administration. Then we think: From now on, we'll be on top of every accepted point today, and it's clear that to put an end to the sphere of impunity, to end with the change of personal policy, and that in this change, in this power, we must work, or else we'll continue the same way... And then the government says it's gonna be, but I don't know if you've noticed, Mr. Orbegi, you said at the end of every sentence, "But he does, but," what I said before, "sí pero no, sí pero no." So the image you're looking at isn't good, the image you look like it's not good... and a government ought to act differently, with more firmness, with greater efficiency, and with greater clearness. There must be no shadow of doubt. And all irregularities must be solved, all precautions must be determined, all trials of suspicion must be broken. By the way, our team from the public list of results, from the results of the member and official data, has conducted an examination, and we will leave it to the medical department. In this study of A, we can clearly see that in the first examination, in the twenty-two specialities, the result remains out of the statistical model, that they are anomalies, and it will be necessary to reply to this that the health department, these anomalies, are given because there have been irregularities, because they have been leaks, because they have been able to copy them, because the examinations were easy, everything. He'll have to answer. Then, on the other hand, the government is curious, it's questioned several tests, because it had a small sample to make the statistics strong, and then it cut down the exams. They were small sampling, small samples! For what reason? What reason has he suspended them and didn't break up the specialtys with the anomalies? He's got to explain... The government will have to explain that. Because he asks us for proof, he asks us for information, and the government doesn't explain it, and the government has to answer all these questions, according to the way we're going to be admitted here today, the government has to give us answers, clearly and distinctly, until we're all in charge, political care, because so far as this is concerned, the government, Mr. Orbezál, has been pulling out the ball, and always answering to the work that group of oppositions had established. And the government has to act with initiative, with proactivity, with the activity you like so much. And that's what we miss. We hope, from this day forward, to fill up the motion that will be here to-day, the final point, the final point, which you refuse to fulfill, and which you would not like to enter. And we think that the key is there, the key is there, so long as the hand does not enter it, that this field of impunity will not end, and we can find it from here to a year: a, it's always been, practice is routine. Is that the system this government wants to maintain? Is that what this government wants? And if that's the case, why?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u51	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u52	Why does the government want to keep this role model on that system? I'm afraid this government will have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u54	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Red, the government has not counted on Elkarrekin We can for any kind of negotiation. It was during the acoustic signal when I was thrown at the table a sheet that I could not even read. It has not been counted on us; I have not received any proposals from either your party or the Basque Nationalist Party; with this, if there has been no negotiation, it will hardly be agreed. Zorionak, because the courts are even in 2018. And, really, who questions the entire 2018 OPE is Mr Darpón, who is going to do a psychometric analysis of the whole OPE; not us. We have said, over and over again, that we do not suspect all the tests. We also say that we respect the more than 1,000 members of the various courts of the OPE 2018 and the more than 80,000 people who have presented themselves to this evidence. Mr. Orbegozo, I too was frightened to hear that they are afraid of reprisals. Two weeks ago, Mr. Darpón, the Director General of Osakidetza and the Director of Human Resources of Osakidetza were asked to appear, but Mr. Darpón would appear at his own request, as it is interesting. The lists have been public since yesterday, after two weeks in total darkness and opacity; let us hope that this will not happen again. We see a need, in our compromise amendment, to express indignation at the indications that the right to equal opportunities in access to the public service has been violated and that this Parliament must transfer its solidarity, commitment and support to all those affected. We also fully understand and need to clarify with absolute transparency, the irregularities detected in the OPE of Osakidetza, for which a thorough examination of the guarantees of the selective procedure will be carried out, the content of the tests carried out and the elaboration of the examinations by the VATP and, in particular, on the professionals to whom this body has contracted for the drafting of the questions. We ask that, in July, you submit to Parliament the external report of the University of Oviedo, with all the documentation analysed in the research process, all the actions carried out and all the conclusions obtained. We also believe that there is a need to transfer to the Office of the Prosecutor any evidence of irregularity for the initiation of the relevant investigation, as well as to clarify the responsibilities of the irregularities that are proven, to paralyse all selective medical procedures that are under suspicion, to clarify the alleged irregularities, and to establish safeguards to ensure that the process is transparent and that examinations are repeated in the cases that are required. All lists, I repeat, must always be public, and not after two weeks. We demand to ensure compliance with the existing legality of the future OPEs in Osakidetza and to prepare, within four months, a proposal with the necessary measures to ensure that the OPE system adheres to strict compliance with the principles of equality, merit and capacity in access to the public service and with particular reference to impartiality and transparency. In addition, we also ask that, in the first quarter of 2019, a working group be set up to analyse the personnel policy model and selection processes in Osakidetza and, if necessary, to make any relevant changes, because we know that there has been a change of model, but it has not been enough, as it is shown that there has been fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I am going to stick to the points of the agreement that I think are important, without having been able to reach an agreement in the following terms: the issue of clarification of what has happened, the irregularities that have been detected, and a thorough analysis of all the guarantees that have accompanied the procedure, the content of the evidence, the elaboration of the examinations and in particular the professionals to whom this body has contracted for the drafting of the questions. It seems important to us, as a report is being made by the University of Oviedo – this is a request made by the People's Party in its amendment. This report is presented to Parliament in July, but not just the report, but also all the documents that have been analysed, the actions carried out and the conclusions obtained. And another important issue: it seems to me that, in the face of any evidence of irregularity, it is not Osakidetza who makes or dictates or makes an assessment of the type of irregularity... In the light of any evidence of irregularity, which is transferred to the Office of the Prosecutor for investigation. And the Prosecutor's Office, when it opens appropriate or relevant investigative proceedings, will see what there is, what is not, whether it continues with the investigation or does not continue with the investigation. But it seems to us important that this be clarified, that Osakidetza, in the face of any alleged irregularity, can be transferred from it to the Prosecutor's Office. When we talk about paralysing the selective procedures of medical specialties under suspicion... If this has been done. We're not asking for anything new; it's just that it's already been done... When Osakidetza has been suspected of irregularities in some hospital medical specialties, such tests have been paralysed. It happened in one initially, and there have been three later. And last week we knew that several unions, including the medical union, also announced that other specialties are under suspicion. If, as a result of the investigations, such suspicions of possible irregularities are apparent, such evidence is also suspended. I therefore believe that nothing new, but, obviously, when suspicions of irregularities are detected, it is appropriate, as has been done so far with the rest of the specialities in which there may seem to be suspicions. On the subject of legality, I think it is important that, when there are suspicions that the principles of merit, capacity and equal opportunities have not been respected, it is an issue that needs to be expressly included in the text. That is to say, scrupulously we will have to arbitrate the mechanisms that are necessary, so that, in the future, if all the irregularities and suspicions in this OPE – and suspicions of screening or any other type of suspicion – are found, the necessary measures will be arbitrated so that these issues do not happen again. But by the good name of Osakidetza, by the good name of the specialists and by the respect for an institution that we believe is respected by all Basques and that we have it in great consideration, as is Osakidetza. So, I think one thing doesn't take away the other. And, therefore, we ask to act with force, total clarification, to reach the end, responsibilities as far as they correspond; precisely, because I believe that, if something has to be, and when one is responsible for a department, he has the responsibility to be a counselor or has the responsibility to be director of Osakidetza – in this case, to be director of Osakidetza – what he has to safeguard, apart from all the guarantees that surround a procedure of these characteristics, is that, if irregularities have been found and proven, that responsibilities have been debugged and that sufficient means have been put in place to ensure that they do not happen again in the future. I think it is something of coherence and pure logic and common sense. As far as the working group is concerned, because we think it is important that this working group, because there is a group that prefers that this working group should emphasize the model of personnel policy, is good, because it can emphasize this issue. But it seems to us – and it also seems very relevant to us – that this working group emphasises the selection processes of Osakidetza and, above all, bearing in mind that this is not the last public offer of employment, that new public offers of employment are planned to be convened in the future and, therefore, it will have to be examined whether there are any changes to these selection processes, but always aimed at ensuring impartiality and absolute transparency in the selection process, in any process of selection of Osakidetza, and which also encourages the Basque Government. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u57	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u58	Thank you, President. First and foremost, I would ask the signatories of the compromise amendment to vote on points, if there is no problem. And then, Mrs. Ubera, if you have understood that I have told you a conversation that you and I have had, I apologize to you all, because, of course, it was not my intention. You were calling for us to explain the reason for the disagreement in point 5, and that's all I've ever intended to do. I believe that the relationship that you and I have is not to count the conversations that we have outside this House and, of course, if you have understood that, I apologize to you. Indeed, this point, which was born in a more controversial way than I think will result in the vote, I think it ends in a ratification of what I said in my first speech. We are all concerned about transparency, speed and firmness. We all bet that the research is carried out to the end, so that we can conclude in the best possible way. We are all concerned about the good name of Osakidetza and his professionals and, of course, I think we all agree that we must work from the administration to prevent situations like these from happening again. I must therefore say that, of course, the Socialist Group will support seven of the eight points you have signed in the compromise amendment, and the reason for not signing the whole is that one of the points raised in the last point in point 8 is that we believe that it is not the competence of Parliament, that it is the full competence of the Government, and we believe that there should not be parliamentary groups to negotiate it. But, as I explained in the first intervention, we agree that this working group is created in order to be able to analyze the model. I conclude this intervention, because I believe that we can continue to raise the tone of the interventions, we can continue to talk and try to set this on fire a little bit. But I think we are much more in agreement than it seemed at the beginning of this point and, although we have not signed the compromise amendment, I believe that today we must all conclude this agreement, because seven of the eight points will end up being voted for unanimously by this House. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u59	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u60	Thank you, again, Mrs. President. Well, Mrs. Ubera, I understand that when you're saying that you're gonna have to act differently, but it's fun. It's not a group of oppositions, so he has his responsibilities as well. But, really, what really surprises me again is where the principle of innocence is? How is it possible to claim a whole work-producing procedure based on suspicion or signs? Where is the security for the person, the pledges of those candidates? We think, too, that when Mrs Garrido says, "When you're suspicious, when you have the signs and the grounds, the proceedings are cut off." There are four specialities cut at this very moment. So that's not the problem. It's a matter of how to do this, in order to guarantee the rights of all, on the one hand, the symptoms, but on the other hand, when there are always proofs and foundations, then the mark is to make such decisions. Secondly, in relation to Mrs Macazaga's approach, it is that I say it again: I think it is very serious. What you have read from the first round and what you have reasserted, is that it gives you the impression that anyone can deduce that many of the specialists who are right now in Osakidetza – who work in Osakidetza – have been able to get their place by cheating. It is what he has said, that this is a pantomime, that it is a farce of opposition, that it is a thing that has been done over all these years. So, what we don't understand is, why do you, having had that information since March – in May you already go to the notary, and you record a notary record, etc. – that is, why haven't you acted before? What level of responsibility is that? Here the only ones who have been doped up to this debate are your group, Mrs Macazaga. The only ones who have information, which is supposed to have information that the rest of us do not have, are you. I tell you the same thing, where is the principle of presumption of innocence? The principle of contradiction? Have you spoken to the people you accuse of having spent some envelopes in a hotel? Have you spoken to them? Do you know what you think about what you're saying? Did you hear them? It seems to me very serious that a representative of a political party in this Parliament should make such accusations. And, well, about the publication of the list and that. we have no objection; we have no objection, and it is already doing so. So, what we said at first, I think that there has been a vast harmony in the foundation, that has been made an effort, and that it is a pity that the argument is irreligious, that we did not agree to a united letter well. So whether we confirm or ask them again to vote at points those groups that present the medium or the medium. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. Like I said, he'll vote for it. I think there's no problem. The amendment has been corrected, and we will vote the last version. Therefore the first seven, and the eighth. EH Collect, together with Podemos and the populars of the Basque Groups, we vote for the first seven of the middle-line corrections. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u62	So the first seven points have been unanimously accepted. We'll vote for the eighth point. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u63	So the eighth point is accepted. Third point in theme list: "Provide the proposition as the parliamentary teams made, concerning the need to judge the collective struggles of ETB in the National Court. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Aguirre, representing the EHG team, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u64	Eskerrik asko. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, or good afternoon now, everyone and everyone. It has been a disease to prepare for this day to speak of EIB; it is a very bad thing, because I have been waiting all morning for a call. At 11:00 this morning, the EIB manager and a delegation of the LAB union have been gathered together to discuss this matter so exactly that they have joined themselves in order to give the occasion or solution to this serious situation which the authorities themselves requested. And so I didn't know how to begin today because I didn't know if there would be any agreement between companies and workers. According to a call I just received, the negotiations seem to be going pretty well, and it might soon be an arrangement. But, well, since I don't know yet, I have to see it. And, in spite of the evil today, it has also been a joy, because even this legislature has produced a direct effect on the change in the conduct of the EIB manager. Now, at least, they're sitting down to negotiate with the workers or to agree with them. I'm glad it worked out because we asked the questions we asked about a month ago. Then we asked if, due to the court managers of ETA, there was a connection between local employees and companies. For, in consequence of another sentence, the collective conflicts of the workers of EIB, not only those of Madrid or Barcelona, are to be judged in the National Court of Madrid. And not only that. The unional majority here, LA and LA will not be able to defend workers because they are not state-wide unions, and even Preco will not be able to operate between companies and workers. Everything, in Madrid, will be decided in the National Court: that's the Parnomama EIBn, in the company of euskal, the public firm, I repeat. The trick is, you're going to spoil it, maybe it's just that she's answered us for a field of work interviews, that she's really on her side, but that she's got to keep the law. And we have to figure that out. We are not asking him not to comply with the law, that is, in this case, it is plainr than anywhere else. In this particular EIB case, it is only a question of form, which may be repaired by will, without breaking or surpassing any law. In the hands of the law everything can be settled by mere will, which is with goodwill. Only one word bar changed: Where "the center of the work" is said, "to put the place in the work," fine. The collective conflicts of ETB could be judged where they belong, which is in the Basque courts, because the only ETB workplaces are in Bilbao and Miramón, and that is where they should be attached or where the workers of the correspondents should be attached. And this is what we now demand in the other proposition like ourselves: Let the parliamentary law ask EIB to take this situation forward so that the collective conflict can be judged in the courts here. We think it simple enough, without folds, rational and consistent. So we're grateful to each other for Podemos' attitude and the middle course we've got. And what is it? The proposition of EAJ and the Socialist Party is also very well considered. It's all right, we want it to open up a new era in working relationships, we want it to work together, and we want it to be done by agreement, and if need be, use other ways apart from the courts. Let's raise the glasses and drink to the sun. Señoras y señores del PV y del Partado Socialist, eso, perdónenme, eso un brindis al solo. Of course, we want conflicts to be resolved through agreements and, where necessary, alternative means to the judiciary; of course, yes, how not, and also in divorces, in neighbourhood disputes, the main thing is to reach an agreement before reaching the courts. But what happens when there is no agreement? We go to Madrid, to the National Court to solve it, and we go to the National Court with unions that do not have representation in ETB, for example, that do not know the company; it is not necessary to say also the cost that would entail to the public coffers that all the conflicts are judged in Madrid. Having to travel almost... –well, given the level of judicialization that exists in ETB – because practically, we go, because every month or every week. Is that defending the Basque field of labour relations? Is that how you're going to defend ETB staff? Barkatu egin iezadazue, bath nik ezin dut hori bisualizatu; nik ez dut uste horrelaa tu litekeenik lan-harremanen euskal esparrua. ETB, it's not a small private company, it's a public ETB, it's a big company, and, so far as it's a part of the Administration, it must be a model for the other corporations. It's also the sign of the Autogony, which is the sign of the ETV, the autogony. His responsibility is therefore greater, he ought to be a pioneer instead of a servant of Confebask. The law officer is working to step forward in the Auto-generon power, and ETB, on the other hand, is refusing that level of auto-gourage you've got. And even if they don't give up their will, because they know it. Our struggles in the Basque Country are being carried from Spain to Spain, which is not an auto-organ, that is a reduction of public function. Not only private Basque companies, because public corporations are entirely dependent on the state, but the wages of public workmen, the hours of labour, depend on the laws of the state; there can be no decision here, no collective negotiation can be made. The condition of the work of the public Basques is determined by the Spanish Government, and the local Government submits to it, because it is well for us to say that it is a cheaper rate for the labor conditions of the workers here. There is nothing in the state but prerogative and poverty: As long as the jurisdictions of labour are in the hands of the state, we have nothing to do. We need a field of relationships and social protection, which is a new state, which is what this legislature has to defend, either in ETB, or in the whole public sector or in private. With the excuse of the crisis, we were applied to labour reform; they have left us without the right to negotiate, and this causes women workers to have lower wages, worse working conditions, which we are becoming poorer and poorer. This is where we must decide the rules that govern our day to day: that is the right to decide, that is the new status, that is democracy, that is what we are debating here today. This is not just a trade union conflict. This is where we have to decide the rules that conditions our diary. This is the right of deciding; this is the new state, that is democracy, that is to live with justice and dignity, that is to possess the future of one's own; that is to say, what we are discussing here today. It is not pure union, it is much more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u66	Good morning, everyone. We come today to discuss an issue that has to do with another of those incomprehensible decisions of the EITB Directorate in its particular war with the entity's workers. One more, from a long list that has been characterized by the increase in labour conflictivity, which management has neither wanted nor wants to address in order to solve the fair demands of the workforce and to ensure compliance with its labour rights. Let there be a possibility of negotiation today, for we are very happy, but this does not change the position they have maintained so far. It should be recalled that the EITB Directorate's recruitment policy has suffered countless judicial setbacks, which have lost many trials by working people, due to contracts for fraud of law. A type of contract that continues to be made today, and that has had a high cost. Thousands of euros, thousands of euros in indemnities and minutes of lawyers. Not to mention the fines imposed by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. In other words, a real waste of public money as a result of actions that run counter to labour rights, working people and the care required in the use of public resources. Another brilliant milestone in the management of Mrs Iturbe, and this without her assuming – nor, apparently, going to assume – any responsibility for it. An attitude to which we are more than accustomed to all of us. The issue before us today, with the PNL of EH Bildu, with whom we have reached a compromise agreement, shows in a palmary way what I have just pointed out, and it is nothing else that the EITB Directorate, far from taking steps in the solution by means of its union representation – forgive, far from taking steps in the solution of labour conflict – chooses to prevent the protection of the staff by means of its union representation. So serious and so simple. Otherwise, it is not understood under what criteria it has decided that collective conflicts, affecting the bulk of EITB workers in Euskadi, will be tried at the National Court. This is another stone on the road that she tries to put, or has tried to put, Mrs Iturbe in her disastrous – I repeat – management of EITB's labour and trade union relations. And from Elkarrekin We can, we believe that, beyond a simple technical-processual debate, this issue comes to the case of labour policy decisions, the result of which is that Mrs Iturbe throws more firewood, if any, in her already troubled management with the workers and their trade unions representatives. It should not be overlooked precisely that the active substance of EITB is not, as we are proving, its direction. The active substance of EITB, as we all know, is people who work day by day for the public body, so that the public body can be a communication reference in our country. It is thanks to the involvement of the workers, which allows our citizens to access up-to-date information about what affects them, where our language and culture is projected. It is thanks to these workers who get up early in the morning, who have untimely hours, who chain contracts and precarious situations, that all this is possible. It is thanks to all the working people, both of direct staff and of that outsourced, illegally in some cases as we have seen, that, despite the precariousness imposed on her by the management of Mrs Iturbe, they are involved so that the work is done as best as possible. It is thanks to the workers in the different areas of EITB that the institution operates. And it could work a lot-much better, if not because Mrs Iturbe is dedicated to putting sticks on his wheel, as we have been saying, of the active principle of our public radio-television. So it is for all of them to be thanked for their work and dedication in such adverse circumstances. Many times we have been told, or have been told, the reproach that our criticisms are intended to end with EITB. Some have serious problems in understanding criticism, especially if it is based on objective elements of judgment. Some consider part of their political heritage to be the heritage of all and of all, and it is this attitude and conception of heritage and partisan of the public that is seriously questioning the prestige and good functioning of EITB. It is the EITB Directorate, and those who still support it, who is the ultimate responsible for what is happening here. Mrs Iturbe should not forget that the various illegalities that she commits as the ultimate responsibility for the management that is carried out in EITB are, in short, the expression of harmful management in the workplace, certainly, and also in other areas. The amendment that we are bringing to this plenary therefore proposes that the EITB Directorate undertakes to deal in our courts with collective disputes affecting the working people of EITB, so that legal rights can be exercised through trade union representations; something that any leadership with two fingers at the front would do Since this is not something out of the logic of management, we believe that this amendment should be supported by the groups supporting the Government, because otherwise we will be clearly shown what kind of management this Government and this EITB Directorate is promoting: anti-union, revanchist and contrary to those who defend labour rights in our Basque public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u68	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Yes, Mrs. Aguirre, it would have been a good thing to get this confession settled at once, and if this was done much better by interviews, it would have been a relief to have made such an arrangement, and we're from our party. And in the line of what you've brought here today, we've got a couple of questions and discussions, haven't we? Debates y preguntas: First debate. What is the judicial body competent to resolve a labour dispute in EITB that affects all its delegations? I think this is the first debate. And a second debate would be how to prevent any labor conflict from reaching a court, wouldn't it? Let's get to the courthouse. I believe that the first is perfectly resolved, through a ruling by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, signed by its President Garbiñe Biurrun, in which it is perfectly clear in its third point what is the field of action, the field of competition. Therefore, we understand that it is a debate that is somehow settled, no matter how much some are committed to continuing to entangle in it. And the second debate is how one can avoid the first and, above all, how one can prevent a labour dispute from ending in the judicial sphere. And we have for years been calling for a change of position, of position, of attitude on the part of the EITB Directorate, because we understand that efforts must be directed, precisely, towards reaching agreements through dialogue, through consensus, through agreement with the trade union majority, which precisely prevent a labour dispute from ending in the judicial sphere. We have been – as I said – demanding a new culture in EITB's labour relations for years. We have to end the times of conflict and confrontation, which have also created – let's say – cracks between the workers of the entity. We understand that this, moreover, has resulted in the quality of services offered by the public body, because we already know that, when the environment between workers is an environment that is addicted to conflict, logically the work and work of those workers is not the same; that is obvious. And we understand that doing things by force does not lead us to anything. And we have clear examples in recent years. Squares have been amortized without the union majority; an ERE has been imposed without consensus. Anyway, I think that, finally, these kinds of attitudes don't lead anywhere. We therefore believe that this is not a toast to the sun, as you said to us, but quite the contrary; it is a question of applying dialogue and consensus to resolve these kinds of issues, even though in some cases there have been trials in which the legal reason has been given to the leadership, but we believe that this procedure is not precisely the desirable one, even if it is supported by a judicial decision that protects the decisions that the leadership has been able to take. We therefore need to open up new stages in EITB, and we understand that the presentation that is being made goes in that direction and that, in addition, very broad areas are being addressed or are being addressed, among which, of course, this issue is also one. As I said, we must seek all possible procedures to prevent labour disputes in EITB from ending in the judicial sphere. For that there is dialogue; there is agreement. If this fails, there is also the alternative of using alternative means to the judiciary; that is, collective bargaining, but there is also mediation that prevents the issue from ending as a last resort in Justice, which, as I say, must be that, a last resort. There is a long way to go before we get to that situation. Why? Because it is always, always-always, a question of guaranteeing the labour rights of the workers of the entity. This is not a question of public service, but a question of preserving and guaranteeing the labour rights of workers. And I understand that this sentence did not please some and some, but it is that the sentences do not try to give pleasure, or the purpose of a sentence is not to give pleasure to some or others, but to preserve rights and to ensure that, in some way, those sentences are in accordance with the law and guarantee those rights of workers. That said – as I said – in addition to these two debates, I think questions of the kind arise: why do some unions find it a scandal that this judicial process is being conducted in the National Court, when it is a conflict that speaks of regularization of workers, among which are the correspondents of Madrid and Barcelona and, however, it did not seem scandalous to them that jobs were amortized, without a union majority, in the same process of regularization that they supported? It is a question that arises from me, and on this issue, I think it is important to clarify a question that we think is absolutely fundamental: "Work centre" versus "work place", because I believe – or I think I understand – that they mixed both issues and are very different issues. The workplace is its own co-responsibility, and the workplace is where professionals and professionals move to give or to cover the corresponding information, and I think it is a fact that must be taken very seriously. Does a labour dispute in the National Court prevent trade unions established solely and exclusively in Euskadi and Navarra from directly or indirectly defending the rights of these workers? For I understand that no; nothing prevents it, as it does not prevent them from participating in a Preco or in any formula that avoids conflicts. In this case, I believe that they can defend these labour rights of workers, even though they are trade unions exclusively based in Euskadi and Navarre, because there are instruments, there are possibilities, there are tools, so that they can be perfectly represented. That's why I ask them: what prevents them from characterizing themselves in open conflicts? In this case, you have generalized: it prevents them all. Well, in all of them, I don't think so, and in this particular case, I don't think so either. What's a matter of costs? Obviously, the cost is higher if this issue is dealt with in Euskadi or is dealt with in Madrid, but I do not think it is an excuse at all. And we understand that the unions – and I am a union in the General Workers Union –... I believe that the unions receive an economic amount from the institutions to carry out their work, and they also charge a quota to their affiliates and affiliates, precisely, to deal with that. With this, costs or costs, I think they are not an excuse, in this case, to prevent those unions from defending – as I said – the rights of their workers wherever the conflict is resolved in a judicial manner. So the rights of workers are weakened? No, no, Is the trade union capacity to act in defence of the labour rights of these workers being nullified? No, no, Can other avenues be taken to prevent these issues from ending in the judicial sphere? Yes; radically, yes. How? Opening a new time, in which dialogue prevails over taxation, in which conflicts are resolved through negotiation with workers through trade unions and those represented on the relevant boards of directors. And as I said, not imposing in any way the unique criterion of that direction. Therefore, reading your compromise amendment, I understand that there is nothing to prevent these unions from defending the rights of their workers, or of our workers. And somehow, I don't understand how EITB's management can make a commitment to those judicial conflicts in Euskadi, when we understand that the public body has no competence to make a decision about it. Therefore, I understand that it is more a matter of judicial decision than a decision of the management itself that these conflicts that end in a court – and that we understand that we must avoid taking those courts – can be resolved in Euskadi and not elsewhere. That is an issue that the judges must no doubt rule on in this case, and not the EITB Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Chief physician. Partners. Good morning, everybody. Even though I know it is a non-law proposal, I have treated it as if it were a consistent motion of inquiry, because as you, Mrs Agirre, have commented... you have also made reference to the purposes of your question. To me they are a unity, your question – your question in your day to the government – and this non-law proposition. And so I have treated it, as if it were a legitimate and logical sequence of action of control to the government and subsequent action of impulse towards the EITB Directorate. You, Mrs Agirre, register this non-law proposal on 27 April 2018, the same day that you ask the government the question on the issue. And the title, headlines the non-law proposal: "on the obligation to judge EITB's labour disputes at the National Court". Similar to the article in the question entitled: "in relation to the transfer of collective conflicts by EITB to the Madrid National Court". However, in his statement in the rostrum, he broadens the focus of the question – he has also commented on this today –: not what is the Government's view that some of EITB's labour disputes are being judged in the National Court, but what is the Government's view – and so articulates it – regarding the stateization of labour relations. Mrs Agirre, I am deeply surprised that you identify this specific issue with the whole field of labour relations. Why? Because labor relations, and now it's when Mr. Casanova jumps, who would say, "Horror, this subject again." Yes, because labor relations are the sum of interactions, which consist of obligations, rights and powers that are contracted between subjects. A complex reality without any doubt. And to their intrinsic complexity we must add the changes in scenarios that surround them: technological progress, for example, which is very important in the case of EITB, progress in management areas... In any case, labour relations are based on the joint action of major actors, major actors, not just one, one. How should we do them? How should we do labor relations to make them quality? With a formula of cooperation between the actors, among those actors in a broad sense: the formula of social dialogue. In the face of the challenges posed by this world today, and more so in the world in which EITB moves and with the aim of reconciling the imperatives of social justice – which we have all referred to here – with competitiveness – with competitiveness, in this case of ETB – and economic development, social dialogue is necessarily imposed. Social dialogue, which is to make collective decisions based on a broad inclusion of actors affected by them, because it must be based on negotiation, cooperation and consensus. I mean, it's everyone's responsibility. I want to make this clear, because it seems that it is only the responsibility of the ETB Directorate, and not. We're all responsible here. The field of labour relations, without a doubt, Mrs Agirre, is much broader than that of judging specific labour disputes. What position do judicialized collective conflicts occupy in the world of labour relations? Well, honestly, I've always thought that it occupies one of the last, at least chronologically. In a way, they are the materialization that labor relations have not developed properly, although experience also tells us that they are also susceptible to correction, even if they are – or are – in that situation. For me, pursuing the Basque field of labour relations is a compass in my political work action. It's a compass. Also for my parliamentary group. With this in mind, I think we need to focus on the core of what you put forward in your GNP, which is: that ETB collective conflicts be judged in the Basque courts. What is the regulatory framework governing this issue? Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Law on the Regulation of Social Jurisdiction establish the competence of judicial bodies to deal with collective disputes. When reading the rule, when reading these articles of the rule, it is found – there is also no need to overinterpret – that competition is determined according to the territorial scope of the collective conflict. In particular, the Social Division of the High Courts of Justice will have jurisdiction; in this case, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country will have jurisdiction. "I understand that this is what you refer to when you refer to Basque courts, to which you refer, to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country; I understand that." He said that the High Court of Justice would be competent when the labour dispute extended its effects to a territorial area higher than that of the district of a social court, and not higher than that of the autonomous community. These same articles establish that the Social Division of the National High Court shall be competent when the effects extend to a territorial area higher than that of an autonomous community. I mean, what does that mean? Attention should be paid to the extension of the effects, the territorial extension of the effects of the labour conflict. If there is a collective conflict that affects, in addition to the centers of Bilbao in the case of ETB, Donostia, Iruña and/or Madrid and/or Barcelona, the Social Hall of the National Audience will be competent, according to this Law Regulating the Social Jurisdiction. Do I like it? No, no, No, no, But that's what the law determines. What do I think of the National Court? Well, I've often given my opinion on the National Court. It seems to me an exceptional court, which takes us away from the concept of a natural judge and seems to me to be a legal and jurisdictional anachronism. That's what I think. But we're not talking about this here. Here we are talking, Mrs Agirre, about these conflicts. And, Mrs Agirre, ETB or the government doesn't take anything anywhere. Mrs Arana, this has nothing to do with the decision of an address. It doesn't have to do with that. It has to do with the Law Regulating Social Jurisdiction, which places some specific conflicts or assumptions there, in the National Court. Not all, some concrete. But he puts them there. When on 27 April in the development of your question, in your second round, Mrs Agirre, you make a reflection, a window of hope is opened to me on this issue. You said: "This is very simple – today you have also commented on it this way – it is a formal question. With a simple change, the question is resolved." I was looking forward to it. What will be the question? You said, "We don't know why ETB doesn't make that change. It's very simple. It's a simple modification," he was telling us today too. "That ETB prolongs the situation by changing the term – it tells us – workplace place of work Mr Andueza has also commented on this; but, beyond Mr Andueza's comments, we can change the name from centre to place, we can even become creative (core, site, site, area, sector of work), but this reality, as we call it, will be determined by Article 1.5 of the Workers' Statute, a productive unit, which says: "Productive unity with specific organization that is discharged as such before the labor authority". The relevant thing is the existence of a contribution account. It is a technical debate, Mrs Arana. I don't bring it; Mrs. Agirre brought it. It is a technical debate; you put yourself as you put yourself. It's a technical debate! I do not think that your solution, your simple solution, which you were talking about, aims to not discharge the working people in those places; I hope that you do not aim there, to not make the corresponding contributions. I'm asking. Does your simple solution mean that ETB does not fulfil its obligations as an employer? I don't think you're raising this. That is why we are preparing our amendment, after many turns to its approach. The idea also gives us: to increase – and this has already been mentioned – the use of agreements, to use alternative means to judicial ones... We understand that our amendment is a creative approach along the lines that you defend in your question even: to get it out of the judicial – and Mr Andueza told us so too – and to bring it into the realm of relational. However, you have remained in your basic approach, in the judicial sphere, an approach far from reality, in my view, totally out of focus – as has already been said or as we have already said – and which seems really surprising to me. But it's possible that I'm still surprised by something else. I may be surprised by something else today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Aiartza, if the surprise is to come from whether we are going to support the compromise amendment, you can be surprised already, because I am telling you from now on, yes. I mean, you can be surprised from now on, that I've been surprised, too, and quite a bit about this. The truth is that I am not going to refer to the Basque judicial sphere or any other kind of issue, but to this particular matter and to the actions of the EITB and the Basque Nationalist Party – let us not be mistaken – in this particular matter, which is nothing more than a demonstration of the negotiation and the negotiating and transparency capacity of the EITB Directorate. Because I want to start by saying that, on the EITB Board of Directors, we were aware of this issue, because it was explained by the unions that asked to explain it, and it was necessary to vote – and there were those who voted against – so that the unions could explain the situation. And, in a further boast of that transparency and that capacity for dialogue and extrajudicial resolution of conflicts, two trade unions, the two main trade unions, asked for explanations and told them no: to talk to one, enough. And only one could come in to explain the matter. As stated here, the inter-centre committee filed a complaint with the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, because the company was violating a number of trade union rights, in particular requests for information. What we see: a great capacity for dialogue on the part of the EITB Directorate. And the surprise was that, at the hearing, the first question that EITB voluntarily put – which is why the sentence exists, because EITB claimed it – is a matter of incompetence, because what he wanted was to bring the matter to the National Court. No, no, no, a matter of incompetence. If he had not argued that question of incompetence, then perhaps the court would not have ruled on it. But it was the first thing he did: to voluntarily bring the resolution of these conflicts to the National Court. The issue that brings us here today, of course, has a legal and political side. I will not completely dissect the legal aspect, because I have said this on many occasions: this House is not a court, but do not worry, that I will give you legal reasons, do not worry, Mr Aiartza. From the legal point of view, as I said, it was the management that requested that this conflict be settled... When does the National Court have jurisdiction? When it affects more than one autonomous community, or because it has work centers in more than one autonomous community. And to achieve this, the correspondents of Madrid and Barcelona, call them "work centers". And you mentioned it. Article 1.5 of the Workers' Statute, what requirements does it say?: "To constitute a productive unit, to have material means and a specific organization, and to be discharged before the labour authority". But the latter is not a requirement to appoint a workplace. The first two are the requirements. And on what basis was the sentence based? Well, in which the correspondents – because that's what ETB claims –... , in which the correspondents of Madrid and Barcelona are a productive unit and have a specific and autonomous organization. Really? Really? Is the correspondent of Madrid and the correspondent of Barcelona really a specific and autonomous organization? The EITB itself, on its website, distinguishes between headquarters and correspondents. If they're the same, if they're all work centers, why don't you call them all the same? Why don't you call everything the same? But no. And a good definition of correspondent. What's a correspondent? Well, he's a journalist who usually sends news from another city, or from abroad, to an information channel, whether it's written press, television or radio. But, in itself, the correspondent is not an own or autonomous organization; it is not a workplace, which is what you claim. What they do is they collect news, and they send it to the work center, in Bilbao or in Miramón. That is the question, and they depend on it and are workers in these workplaces, and that is why it does not exceed the competence of the autonomous community itself. What's he doing? And it says the sentence that doesn't matter whether it's called a workplace or a workplace, which is the same thing. No, it's just not the same; I just told you. The idea is in the production unit. And jurisprudentially and doctrinally it is distinguished because the workplace is in the area in which you work in coordination, in which there is an organization of work inspired by a business purpose. But, for example, to quote, doctrinally, Professor María José Romero Rodenas, Professor of Labour Law at the University of Castilla La Mancha, points out when she is a work center. "If the company is distributed in several productive units, only if they are autonomous, susceptible to independent legal traffic, that is, suitable for operating as different companies, without changing the organization of work, with only subjective change of direction can be considered workplaces; otherwise, they will be workplaces". And the consequences are absolutely different. With which, what does EITB do? To falsify, to force reality, to go to the National High Court and call work center to what is not. Which it isn't. I do not know if it prevents it; but, of course, it makes it difficult to defend women workers. And me, if your surprise was that I was opposing law enforcement. No, no... What I am opposed to is the falsification of reality and the real facts, which is making EITB to go to the National Court. If a correspondent was a workplace, yes, but it isn't. It's just not. EITB is interested in getting away and the harder it can be for the workers, right? – because it is characterized by this – better than better. And you said you were surprised. Well, as a surprise, the truth is ours. Because I was telling you that this, in addition to the legal side, has a political side, and you've made the reference and you've already put the bandage on before the wound comes out, right?, because you already knew where we were going. You already know. Because you see things that will make the stones speak For the PNV, the sentence, this sentence to which you have referred, is like the tables of the law, when you have questioned the judgments of the courts of our autonomous community, those of the National Court, those of the Supreme Court, those of the Constitutional Court and even those of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights. They have questioned all kinds of judicial decisions. Hey, what about this one? They look like the boards of Moses! That, by the way, they are perfectly enforceable judgments and what has been said here in the High Court of Justice, perfectly, the National Court can revoke it and declare its incompetence, because it considers that neither Madrid nor Barcelona is a centre of work. I mean, let's see, that's not definitive or, of course, not discussed. There are sentences for all tastes. And we respect the sentences, as it cannot be otherwise. But I'm telling you, there are different kinds of judgments on this matter. And as I say, here, what is the interpretation? For EITB and, in this case, who are at the head of EITB, which is the Basque Nationalist Party, wants the conflict to go to the National Court. And it's that, what I was saying to him: what to see! The Basque Nationalist Party advocates that competition resides in the National High Court. I will not be denied that it draws the utmost attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the desire of EITB and the Basque Nationalist Party for the National Audience. In 2005, Mr. Rubalkaba – not that of the PSOE, that of the PNV – called for the abolition of the National Court; in his opinion, to judge the crimes, the natural judge is the closest and the closest. According to the parliamentarian jeltzale, the PNV project consists of a logical, eternal and complete justice in Euskadi. And we have gone from wanting complete justice in Euskadi to voluntarily bringing the conflict to the National High Court. In November last year, the Basque Nationalist Party, by the mouth of Mr Aitor Esteban, advocated the abolition of the National Court, because it is an exceptional judicial body, which makes no sense, that must disappear. Now, that is, it must disappear for everything, less to carry the collective conflicts of EITB. For that case, keep it there, which is much better. And paraphrase Mr. Egibar – who will end up charging me copyright Because Mr Egibar proposes – in the self-government speech he has proposed – that there must be a commitment to a Basque judiciary. What are you going to do? He's not here now. And then what are you going to do? You're gonna do the same thing, you're gonna stay in the bathroom so you don't have to vote against this, that conflicts are settled here? That, after requesting a Basque judiciary, now say no, no, no, no, take him to the National Court. The truth is that, when it comes to achieving a result favourable to our interests and for this I do not know whether to prevent – but to make it difficult – the work of the unions in defence of the rights of the EITB workers, in that case, Mr Aiartza, ideology jumps out of the window, we force the machine, the interpretation, to be taken to the National Audience, to see if the resolution is more favorable there. As I said, you see things that will make the stones speak.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u73	Thank you, Miss Llanos. On the answer turn, Mrs. Aguirre, representative of EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u74	Thank you. Well, so do I, boy, this is the People's Party giving self-government defense lessons to the Basque Nationalist Party. Hamaika ikusteko jaioak race. Eta gaur ikusi ditugu, surprised and even fun. It's a pleasure these hours in this environment. It's a luxury. Eskerrik asko. And it is also surprising that here, with strong advocates of agreement and dialogue and so on, we have not managed to reach an agreement on this point, because on our part we were fully prepared to assume what the whole amendment was all about, but you wanted a little more, which is not collected. And well, then, that is not the best willingness to reach agreements. We wanted everything to be collected and it would have been a nice example, a way of preaching with the example, that agreement, that social dialogue, which we demanded from the management and the ETB's company committee, well, it wouldn't have been wrong to start here. And I was also a little surprised by what Mr. Andueza, Mr. Aiartza... That judges have to decide, you have to comply with the law... In a way, is it not a little bit disallowing what the ETB Directorate is doing at this time, which this very morning, as I have already commented, has met with representatives of the LAB union to reach an agreement, despite that law and despite those judicial decisions? I don't know; it seems a little strange and surprising to me. Mr. Donalza, to illustrate what you said because I don't know if you have any good information. The workers of the EIB correspondents, Madrid and Barcelona, can't have unions because they don't have the necessary amount of ELA and LA and LAAB, and the only unions in EIB can't protect them because they're not in the state. I don't know where you got the information from, but that's how it works. To make that clear... Waiting for y tengo confianza in EITB se illegue a un accerdo. Apparently, after the meeting today, it's pretty sweet. We wait for an agreement to come to an agreement which we have so strongly defended here. I'm happy to be here, well, because this lawman's work is worth something, and I think we've caused it with the first question, the first month, and we're going to have this point today too. And a victory for us and the road to follow. When you want to fix something, we try to find means, and when you don't want to, you can find nothing but excuses. I think if there's will, there's a way to go. We cannot allow neither the public nor the private sector to state themselves, because it is here, and not anywhere else, where our future must be decided. I won't teach you that lesson, Miss Llanos. This is the right to decide; that is to have self-control. That's the new state. Is this what we've been arguing about today? It's not just a technical issue, it's not a technical discussion, it's a reasonable thing, and that's the field for discussion. Democracy and justice. That's it. That's it today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Poedemus. The plum shouldn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u76	Thank you, ma'am. Well, Mrs. Aguirre, yes, that's for the law. We didn't deny that, and in my interference I've made that clear. I said quite contrary, and you forced me to say otherwise. And you said, that's not... What you're saying isn't against the EIB Director? Well, well. Of course, it is obviously an amendment to what the EITB Directorate has been doing to date. But I said it in my speech. I have said that we understand that this is not the right way to proceed, but the contrary. We just have to change it. We have to reorient the course. And that the issues should not be carried out either by imposition or brought to the judicial level from good to good, which is the last solution. Sure. Of course, the Basque Socialists have made an amendment to all this type of practice, because we understand that the way is different. The way is through dialogue, consensus, the participation of social partners through trade unions, the participation of workers. The search for a dialogue solution to conflicts. The use, even, of mediation if through that dialogue something is not achieved. And, as a last resort, to go to court. I therefore believe that we have not said anything that we have not been saying in recent years. So I was a little surprised by your reply. And, as far as public services are concerned, I do not believe that such a question puts at risk or is aimed at the stateization of public services, but quite the contrary. In this case, it is a jurisdictional issue in the judicial field, which is perfectly defined, clear, as the judgment says, but that has absolutely nothing to do with the stateisation of public services, in this case, of EITB. So, what do you want me to say? I was a little surprised. Mrs Llanos, I welcome the new stage that has been opened in the People's Party. Moreover, I say this with absolute sincerity, because I was listening to him here in the rostrum and I really didn't recognize him. There's been a moment that I don't know if it's because of your words or why, that you've let me go. Because you sit next to me and I know that the people next door are the People's Party, but I would think you were on the PNV bench; honestly I'm telling you. Finally, since when have you decided to defend your own framework of labour relations? Since when have you decided?, I would like to know, because I have seen you very vehemently on that issue. I would remind you that you are going to support this issue, when these gentlemen who have always defended it have put it on the table and it seems very legitimate to me. Listen, and that if you have changed course in this sense, you are in your perfect right. I don't know what they'll think about it in Madrid. Since when do they not respect a decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, in which, as I said, the area of competence is perfectly clear and defined, and where should this issue be resolved? Since when do you deny that such a matter is raised at the National Court? Since when? Anyway, I'm really surprised! Do you really believe that EITB can have the power to decide whether this issue should be dealt with here in Euskadi or Madrid? Do you really believe that? Do you really believe that? I'd be very surprised. I'd be surprised! In any case, in relation to other issues that you have mentioned, such as the issue of the workplace, you mentioned two premises and a third: you claimed that the EITB Directorate is subject to or clings to the third, but it is by chance that it meets the first two, which is what you have said are indispensable requirements; then where is the problem? It is possible that a correspondent, a special envoy, may even be giving the news from Seville and its work centre remains Bilbao, and there is no problem, but this is not the case. It's just not this case. So let's see if we start to make some things clear; but, anyway, what do you want me to say?, I've seen her very clinging to Euskadi, I've seen her very clinging to the earth, ongi etorri. Guretzako bear posgarria da. I see that they have overcome certain things and that, in some way also, in the end, there are already positions in which the People's Party has begun to snag. Oh, ongi etorri! What do you want me to tell him? Right now, at the time when you have overcome certain issues and now that we have to renew the National Audience, I hope that in this regard you will take good note of what you have said here and help the new Government to be able to do a much better National Audience than we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u77	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. U.S.A.S.A.R., Eubertarians. Mr. Aarda, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u78	Thanks again. Mrs. Agirre, the deal. He was telling us about the deal, the deal between us. I think it's been close, that we've been close, although it seemed to me that when you say "but they wanted a little more." No, no... We didn't want any more, it was just... We just made that approach, I understand that, don't we? This is our approach and it is you who may have wanted a little less or I don't know; but in any case, there has been – I understand that there has been – agreement intention and there has been intention to approach. The deal between us... The agreement you make disallows ETB. I do not think so, because you are taking an agreement exclusively on a level, which is a judicial level or a judicialised collective conflict, which does not refer in addition to all collective conflicts, but to specific ones, which have specific characteristics, which are those reflected in these articles. And does that disallow us from working, from agreeing in other areas or even in the same areas? I don't think so. It can be perfectly dynamic to agree or pursue agreements, even though there are issues that are judicialized and even these issues can be corrected, as I said at the beginning, in my first intervention. And then there's another issue that is the technical debate, a technical debate... Let's see, the debate you are raising is a technical debate, the two titles... That it seems to me very good that I raise another debate and raise a broader debate on labour relations, as I put it to the Government in your question, but the debate that you raise is a technical debate, and I abide by the rules of the game that you raise: judging these matters, why bring these matters to this court. That's what you're asking. And then I look for the keys to that technical debate. No more... Mrs. Llanos, honey, my mother usually says something, I don't know who she is, about "he said the pan to the casket," when he talks about overacting. I don't know who the frying pan is or who the casket is in this case, but I don't think I've overacted, here if someone overacted it's you, and that's what Mr. Andueza told you. Yes, I understood him that way. And we're talking about a technical debate, and I don't advocate bringing matters to the National High Court at all. You're welcome! In fact, I have not even referred to the judgment and in a concrete appraisal of the National Court, because I understand that it should have been created in its day – the State should have created – a central social court, etc., to do that effect with the Supreme Court, right?, for these assumptions. In any case, it seems to me... I'm still keeping what I said about the National Court, and that's how I see it. And this is a strictly technical issue. I have not referred to the judgment either, although I have indeed relied on one of its keys. And you said, "It does ETB. This is what ETB does, this is what ETB wears." No, no... That's what the sentence says. And that's what the law says. That's what the sentence says and that's what the law says! What law? Two laws. The Law Regulating Social Jurisdiction, its law regulating social jurisdiction, and another, the Statute of Workers, where, by the way, some issues related to – or many of the issues related to – labour reform, approved by Royal Legislative Decree – that formula that you liked very much – on the 2nd of the 15th. Your Workers' Statute, in reference to what's in it, which is... Nor have I said it is as much place as center; what I have said is that it doesn't matter what you call it, that the important thing – and that's the key to the technical debate – is the quote account. That's the important thing. Mrs. Llanos, not that. What to see! What to see! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u80	Yes, Mr. Aiartza. What to see! I told you the other day, that you defended a socialist councilwoman better than the socialists themselves, and today you have defended Mr Andueza better than yourself. And the words I said earlier... Mr Andueza, do not attribute the monopoly of self-government, do not attribute it; do not be surprised, do not know what you are surprised about. We are defenders of self-government and the law, and of law enforcement. I don't know what you're surprised about, because I've said these questions here many times, that is, that you don't attribute the monopoly or distort things, that we're all too old and I've been in politics for a long time, and I just can't help but tell... I have not defended the very framework of labour relations. No, no! Nor have I defended a Basque judiciary of my own.... No, neither. Neither. That's what you'd like. And that I don't rule out that you end up defending it, if necessary to stay on the couch, that I don't rule it out. But not us. No! No! What I've told you is that the law is being enforced. The one we have, the one we have right now. It sets out the issues to be taken to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the issues to be taken to the National Court. And, if we have to take him to the National Court, of course, and that the law applies. But what do we consider now, and taking into account the technical question?, that EITB forces it. What do you mean, the sentence? The sentence says so because EITB, at the hearing and also the sentence says so – in the background in fact, right?–, the first thing it claims is a question of incompetence. And when a question of incompetence is alleged, the first thing that comes into discussion is the question of incompetence. If that question of incompetence had not been claimed by EITB, perhaps "Because it is true that it is a matter of public order," the courts themselves may or may not determine. Or not! But why is it taken to the National Court, why is that sentence given? Because EITB, at the hearing, the first question it raises is incompetence and that the matter be referred to the National Court. And for that, what does he do? Well, you say it's clear... It is a center, the correspondent of Madrid, huge, so huge that it has no right to trade union representatives, with an autonomous and own organization. Come on, what's going on with you is that... I have told you, Mr. Aiartza – and now that Mr. Egibar is here I take advantage of it – is that, well, boy!, it doesn't matter to you; it is that you ideology use it for what you want. Look, buddy, it's just that if a court like the National Court comes to me better, because look, I almost better forget that I'm against the National Court, right?, and I'm taking the subject there. And I'm taking the subject there! Because just like the decision of the National Court, as they can't go and the defense of the workers is going to be difficult, because then, just as the sentence comes to me better, so look, then, I pass Olympicly from the defense of the Basque judicial organs, from the Basque judiciary, right? It does the same as Mr. Egibar says in the self-government speech, I pass Olympic, and I take it to the National High Court. But if you always do. But if you criticize the laws, and even when it is not mandatory to apply them, if it suits you, apply them. That we also have such examples here. Because, my friend, it's that, as the Catalans would say, "the hair is the hair." Man, and if I can surf here, because I surf and I get a resolution that's favorable to me, and if that's why we have to take the matter to the National Court, then take it, listen. It takes, where I said, Diego, and come on and phenomenal. And that's what's been done. And why are we going to vote in favour? Because besides, he doesn't talk... – I forgot the amendment – because it does not speak of Basque courts, it speaks of the undertaking to reside in collective conflicts in the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and that commitment can assume it and do you know why it can assume it? If it does not distort the reality, if it does not make fraud of the facts and considers the correspondents of Madrid and Barcelona as what they are, as workplaces, as correspondents, and not as workplaces. And he considers that, in this way, collective conflicts are confined only to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and apply all those laws that you have said, with which I agree and which I respect, then, in that case, the competence would fall to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. That is what we are asking, that we stop falsifying reality in order to continue to provoke labour conflict, as is being done at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u81	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u82	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Society of Euscal, about the name of the Gastei Mountains of Natural Park. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madame de Ocariz, who is the representative of the Basque Group, has the word to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u83	women: Again, we bring to this House the protection of the Vitoria Mountains. Again, the protection of the Vitoria Mountains returns to the Alavesa public agenda. It is in 2010, and at the request of this Parliament, when the Basque Government, the councillor Mrs Unzalu, initiated the Plan for the Ordination of Natural Resources in the area of the Vitoria Mountains. And in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act of the Basque Country, the Department of the Environment began the technical work to advance its commitment. It prepared a document prior to the Plan for the Management of the Natural Resources of the Mounts of Vitoria, which contains the diagnosis, objectives and guidelines for such management. In 2012, by order of the Environment Advisor, the initial approval of the Natural Resources Management Plan of the Montes de Vitoria area was agreed, and the period of public exposure began, until October 30, 2012. A total of 62 allegations were received; the legislature ended, and these allegations were already answered by the new government in June 2013. All the allegations received were contrary to the opportunity of the proposed PORN, and both the administrative boards and the private individuals called for the exclusion of those lands from that area. During this period the final approval of the Special Conservation Area (SEZ) of Montes Altos de Vitoria coincides, and it is in 2015 that it is finally approved. It affects an area of approximately 2,000 hectares, compared to the 11,000 hectares of the Vitoria Mountains. It is in this legislature, and in 2015, when the unanimity that led to the figure of natural park for the Vitoria Mountains is broken. It's when the fracking In June 2016, on 10 June, in this House, the non-law proposal was approved, saying that "the Basque Parliament requires the Basque Government to comply with the decisions taken in this House and, consequently, to continue the process for the declaration of natural park to the Mounts of Vitoria, approving for this purpose a plan for the management of natural resources, which adequately protects the area defined in the initially approved PORN and clears up this entire space of threats of transformation and loss of natural values". And it seems that the Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing of this Government is willing to fulfil the commitments made in this House. To this end, he talks about the search for greater social, institutional and private consensus, as well as the search for the best environmental protection figure for the Vitoria Mountains. The work and actions carried out are currently being reviewed and the revision of the Natural Resources Management Plan, which had previously been approved, is being evaluated. The delimitation proposed by this plan as a natural park, its possible updating and its subsequent integration with the ZEC management, already approved, of the Monts Altos de Vitoria, as we already approved in the Nature Act, which said that "both figures are integrated into a document integrating spatial planning". And that's where we're at... From the People's Group we are trying to regain institutional consensus in the City of Vitoria. This consensus has already been achieved by adopting an initiative unanimously. The initial natural park project has an area of around 13,000 hectares, of which 12,200 are part of the most protected area and the rest is a perimeter area. In total, it affects land in seven municipalities: Vitoria, Alegría, Arraia-Maeztu, Bernedo, Elburgo, Iruraiz-Gauna and Iruña de Oca. And 33 smaller local entities belonging to these municipalities. 85% of the soil is not urbanizable. The villages, their neighbours, have been threatened with the management of their spaces on the Vitoria Mountains, as well as their agricultural and livestock activities, with the arrival of a natural park that could affect their crops, their farms or their planning. A figure of protection that has given them vertigo or vertigo, as they were exposed. Therefore, in the initiative we propose, we urge that, in this process, the actors involved – which we think is very important – be incorporated, the citizens, in order to seek and reach the maximum consensus. It is only from transparency that trust is gained, and that seems very important to us. It is true that there are new elements in the knowledge of some outstanding values, and many of them are outside zone C; for example, there are 67 wetlands, some of them with very threatened species, such as river crab or agile frog. It is clear that an effort is needed to achieve a sustainable Euskadi and, in addition, to seek coexistence between nature and those living in the environment. And, for this, there is an important work ahead: to draft a new Natural Resources Management Plan, which is initially approved, to open it to public information, to address suggestions, allegations and contributions, and to try to determine its approval in this legislature. Almost 10 years with the initial agreement, with the controversy, but trying to recover – as I told them – a new agreement. At the initiative we tabled, some amendments were tabled, and we have reached a compromise amendment, in which we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue the processing of the dossier for the elaboration of the Plan for the Management of Natural Resources for the area of the Vitoria Mountains, which, through the figure of adequate protection and an effort to expand the current protected area, can adequately protect this natural space from the threat of loss of natural values". In point two we say that we urge the Basque Government to incorporate the social and institutional actors involved and citizen participation in the processing of the dossier, in order to reach the maximum consensus. We urge "the Basque Government to set an appropriate timetable, so that this dossier can be concluded in the current Basque legislature". "The Basque Parliament – we urge the Basque Government in point four – urges that, together with the Foral Chamber of Álava, it commit itself to respecting the powers of the councils, as well as to keeping in force the customs and customs in the management of their mountains, which have been carried out throughout history and which have fostered their good state of conservation." In point five we urge "the Basque Government, together with the Provincial Council of Álava and the City of Vitoria, to ensure the protection of agricultural land, both private and roturo, favouring agricultural and livestock activity as a way of life in an important sector of the population of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the historical territory of Álava". And in point six, we say that "in the aforementioned Natural Resources Management Plan, the basic criteria and funding commitments will be collected for the use and management master plan to carry out socio-economic development programmes in the integrated populations in the territorial area of the protected space and its peripheral area of protection, providing for the necessary incentives and economic allocations". This is the agreement we have reached. I hope that all groups, including the non-amendment group, will support this initiative. We think it's good to get back the deal he had in his day. It is also a request from the department, because I believe it strengthens you in your work and, therefore, I encourage the non-amending group to also support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u85	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President, and good afternoon to all. We boast of our city and of our nature, and among them of the Gastial Mountains, which are of great value as natural and culture. It is, however, a sleeping gaseze, which extends beyond the Gastian township. He represents the eastern mountains of Araba, the mountain systems of the forest, and the agricultural landscapes of the plains of Arbata. And these two concepts are important: that in this field, the activities developed by the people and by the cattle and by the people and by the cattle have been compatible with nature for centuries, and thus to continue... or the Basque People are deemed indispensable to this. It is also an important ecological corridor, which is a connection between the east of the mountains of the Fountains and the westward range of the Tuiu, to the mountains of the Urals and the western ranges of the Araba, that is to say, to Kuartan and Gorbeia, which is also the connection of the systems of the forest. In the forest of cattle there are many species of animals: night birds of prey, forest faunas, and microgattes, and carnivorous carnivorous birds. The number of the animal species which lie in the Gastian Mountains, which are a little odd, is halrt, and even the vertebrate-brais very large. 51 animal species, united to the Euscal List of threatened species, have been verified. As to Flora, there have also been defined in this area 15 kinds of plants, according to the direct direction of the habitation of common importance: some are very rare and rare: There are certain pagos and teethbags of the Pagogan, or certain habituations of the vaginal powers. The value of landscape-and hydrology is also very significant, as well as the history and the history-almost history-in other words, that there are fourteen archaeological structures, nineteen churches, and palaces. This list is very superior to our treasure and history in the Gastine Mountains. And this puts everything on the table, why and unanimously we seek the need for the support and development of the area, and even the merit of entering into the net of protected natural deserts. The consequence of this procedure, before giving us an expression of the degree of a system of nature, which will be more consistent with the nature of the site, in the former law, 18. what appears in the article is to make a plan of the organization of the natural resources, to determine the best adapted figure for the maintenance of resources, and the nature of the site for the purposes of the use, for the limitation and management of the instructions of managing and managing the site. This procedure was interrupted, and by the motion of the moment, and by the unanimous voice, we are once more occuperant, with the unanimous mouth. Because Euskal Herria Bildu is pleased that the agreement on this issue has been restored and that its momentum has also been restored. And we don't say it's simple, but we do say it's absolutely necessary. And we also believe that consensus needs to be broadened. Conscious of all this, Euskal Herria Bildu, together with the groups that make up Elkarrekin We have introduced, in the budgets of the City Council of 2016, a part to carry out this participatory process, which will allow to generate consensus. Although it must also be said that the game never developed. The truth is that it is beginning to be a custom that what is paralyzed in the City Hall we have been able to push from this Parliament. But today's agreement, and the momentum, is necessary and important. We know that it is not going to be easy, also because of the precedents in the area, for example the case of Izki. And this must be an example to work in another way: in the face of dissuasive measures, we advocate consensus measures. They are also known and we hope that other experiences of success, of joint work, of natural protection with local development will be used. We have insisted, from Euskal Herria Bildu, on the funding needed to move from words to deeds. We believe that funding commitments must be collected so that the master plan for use and management also includes the socio-economic development of the municipalities concerned in the territorial area of the protected area. We believe that this is the message to be conveyed to these municipalities and to these communities. The technicians also repeat this over and over again, which we must incorporate into this design in the peripheral protection zones. The definition of which areas should be protected and which peripheral areas should be jointly made. Local authorities, municipalities and councils have to be incorporated – and we think it is very important – into them. The representation of the first sector must also be incorporated. The highest level of environmental protection must be ensured with rural development. In the Araban, there have been a great deal of usages, and we want to protect them too. World management, mountain care, and exploitation, agriculture development... We're very aware that the nutrients should be produced, and that we have to protect this too. And the voice of the drug-logists, to protect nature, is also considered as indispensable, but even the most expert. In this area, we have a lot of college experts, and even institutions like CEA are willing to contribute a lot. We also agree, as Mrs. lópez said, that all the people ought to feel that this project is hers. We want you to continue to be the treasure we have for the occasion, and we'd like to be part of the trial and the leading men, but it won't be easy, but it's inevitable. And we express great joy inability to resume our enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u87	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. As Mrs López de Ocariz said, we no longer know how many times we have dealt with the issue of the Vitoria Mountains in Parliament. Not too long ago, the vice-counsel came to the Committee on the Environment to report on the current state of affairs, and it is true that it is now at an advanced stage and that the possibility of a broader agreement today seems to be a reality, because at least four of the five groups have signed the amendment. Last April, too, was debated at the City Hall of Vitoria, and this time that initiative counted with the unanimity of those present there. It is true that it is a matter that comes from a very far away, that has undergone changes and modifications over time, that all the institutions involved have been positioning themselves when it touched, I would even dare to say that the Vitoria Mountains, at one time, were a collateral damage to another controversial and highly controversial issue, hence the zoning and approach of the specific perimeter, which was also worked in this Parliament. We intended to protect the area, shield it and prevent the development of specific activities in that part of the territory that counted on the positioning against much of society. But now it is up to us to concretely study, plan and decide the best possible form of protection, and waiting for the greatest agreement and respect for the final decision. This issue begins, as we all know, in the Álava Foral Diputación, in 2009; during that year there were many political debates in the area. The topic of electric curtains, the possibility of wind farms and the possible exploitation of fracking appeared. In the delimitation proposed by the council, they include areas covered by forests of the Vitoria Mountains and pastures and adjacent agricultural spaces. The scope of delimitation includes the municipalities already told us by Mrs López de Ocariz, as well as 33 smaller local entities belonging to those municipalities. The PORN is processed from 2010 to 2014, the year in which it is paralyzed. During those years, and following this paralysis, we in Parliament have discussed in countless occasions the need to address this issue in the form of non-law proposals, motions, interpellations... because I believe that we have tried everything here to try to protect this area. The year 2010 was the time when the House called for development for the approval of the PORN, and that is where Councilwoman Unzalu enters to work in her department. In 2016, compliance with the decisions taken by this Parliament is required. In the area of the Vitoria Mountains there is also the LIC of the Vitoria Mountains, which covers a wide area, which is more extended in the south-eastern sector of the municipality of Vitoria-Gasteiz. It is also important to say that the City Council represents 67% of the proposed delimitation. Allegations are received; they are taken into account; work continues on the final file... It is true that, while the delimitation was being discussed or discussed, the processing of the LIC spaces of the European Natura 2000 Network was being dealt with at the same time. A consolidated text has been adopted in the Basque Country Nature Conservation Act, in which the typology of protected natural spaces is defined as natural park, protected biotope, unique tree and Red Natura spaces. A technical diagnosis is carried out by the Department of the Environment, and environmental information has been analysed, and it is clear that these are very different areas, depending on the final protection figure. The ZEC covers 16% of the proposal for the initial delimitation of natural park. There have also been advances in the knowledge of some environmental values of the mountain range, many of which are located outside the scope of the EEZs, such as the 67 wetlands, some of which have very threatened species or several populations of flora in a serious state of threat. At the meeting of the vice-counsel, Elena Moreno already informed us that, in the diagnosis carried out by the department in the area of the Montes de Vitoria, there is a natural potential with a good state of conservation, thus meeting the requirements set out in article 10 of the Law on Conservation of Nature of the Basque Country. At this stage of the debate, it seems that we all agree that it is important that the maximum protection of the space of the Vitoria Mountains be achieved, and that is achieved with a PORN suitable for those purposes and adapted to the territory, regardless of the protection figure that is finally chosen, and for that we must bear in mind that each of the protection figures can contribute to us, which I believe is where we are now and where the Government is. Nor can we forget competition. In Euskadi, the management of the natural spaces of protection is the responsibility of the deputies. It is important that the final decision be as agreed as possible and that it arise, as was said in the committee, from an inter-institutional commission composed of the Government, the legislature, the city council and the municipalities concerned. That is why, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want the area of the Vitoria Mountains to be protected; I believe that we have been positioned for many years, and it is true that we have always had a preference for one figure of protection rather than another. We want parliamentary mandates to be fulfilled, because that is why we are dealing with negotiating initiatives. We understand the importance of the delimitation of the area that also establishes a perimeter protection zone. We bet to work on the search for the greatest possible agreement, without obviating the competences of each institution. We understand that the signed amendment reflects the sensitivities of the different parliamentary groups; we must wait for Mr Arriola's department to finish the dossier and see what is the most appropriate form of protection offered to us with technical reports, and from now on continue to bet that the Vitoria Mountains are a protected area. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u88	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u89	Madame de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good evenings to all. Maeterlinck said nature does not need happiness, and in Euskadi, in 1989, the first nature park, Urkiola, was declared, based on state legislation and without a previous resource management plan, which – it is true – caused serious management problems. Already the parks of Valderejo and Gobeia were made with the previous PORN and the subsequent Nature Conservation Act, which was adopted in June 94, which already required that, before the declaration of a space, or of any figure or with any one, it should be subjected to a study to draw up such a resource management plan. This plan consists, according to the law, in an analysis of the state of conservation of resources, the determination of possible limitations of uses and the application, if appropriate, of one of the protection regimes that established the law itself, which were then natural park or protected biotope. Until the European legislation arrived, through the launch of the Natura 2000 Network, which establishes mechanisms for the protection of species and natural spaces, which it understands are scarce in the whole of the EU; which sometimes leads to the prospect that what somewhere becomes practically a plague, being the only space in the European Union that contains it, is in danger of extinction. And it is that man, both in his developmental and protectionist aspects, does not cease to be a permanent intervener in the dynamic balance of nature, deciding what should be done, always in the spirit of securing the ascua to its sardine. In one case, it undoubtedly explains the inexhaustibility of nature and, in the other, the need to restore lost balances, also deciding what those balances are. In both cases, a line of thought is imposed: either for socio-economic well-being, or for socio-natural well-being. Some call it ecocapitalism and ecosocialism, but it's just anthropocentrism. The man as a neollave Euskadi is, on the one hand, a physical space that is very trilled, because its surface is scarce, but its density of scholars and scientists of nature per square meter is extremely high. And since the early 70s of the last century, there has been a continuum of spaces to be protected, an iterative catalogue that was used in the successive declaration of spaces and that ended up being defined in the DOTs approved in 97, it being expressly noted that those places not identified in the list should be approved in plenary of the COTPV. And the Vitoria Mountains, although I have no doubt that they have frankly interesting natural values, never appeared on those lists. That demand for natural parks without prior analysis led to another conceptual error: that of requiring it to protect itself from potential disasters, among which it highlighted an undesirable urban growth towards the area of Montes de Vitoria. And it is very good that such urban growth is not desired – it is very well – but that it is not desired by the City Council, which has in its hand the most powerful instrument to avoid it, which is the general plan of urban management, because it lacks meaning, unless it allows it to solve the pressures of urban growth, diverting attention to the one who had declared that space as a natural park, when it comes to that in the storms each administration endures its candle. This time we are, once again, faced with an interested use of nature conservation. The conservation of nature is that, preserving it, preserving it and protecting it, and another thing is the preventive regulation that is more of other areas of environmental policy and, if I am in a hurry, of defence policy. In 2010, following the Gasteiztarra municipal request, the correct order to start the PORN de Montes de Vitoria was given, without prejudging its conclusion, while, urged by the EU to move forward in the declaration of previously marked spaces, part of the area was included in the previous studies for the future declaration as ZEC. In the same year, the Nature Conservation Act was amended to include in the Network of Protected Natural Spaces in addition to parks, biotopes and trees, the figures of the Natura 2000 Network. Then, in conclusion, from that moment on, the PORN of an area could choose a huge range of protection figures for each space. On 30 July 2012, the PORN was initially approved and submitted to public information, and in 2015, due to the demands of the EU calendar, the final approval of the ZEC de Montes Altos de Vitoria took place, which meant its immediate inclusion in the Euskadi Natural Spaces Network. Two uncoordinated conservation paths: one ended in decree, while the other remains unfinished. If it is true that the PORN should have completed its administrative procedure, it is also true that the beginning of such a file, as I said, was not the best of all, because the cart was put in front of the oxen, and a conclusion was demanded first of all, and that is a perversion of the law itself, while it had strong opposition from affected neighbors. In short, despite the divergent paths, today, there are rules and mechanisms that are already protecting the most relevant of the area. Another thing is that the management plan that was initiated must be finalized, with the conclusions that are considered most technically appropriate. And that's what we're asking the government with the agreed deal: to finish it. And something that we consider fundamental: to have the people affected by such a declaration. Give him a hearing, make efforts to reach agreements with them. As well, according to the addition made by EH Bildu – which is, by the way, a demand of the Nature Conservation Act itself – it is no other than to define funding for the application of future regulations, without any economic damage to those working in that environment. That law of 94, which has had several modifications, continues to maintain a concept included in its origin, which indicates that protected natural spaces have as objectives, in addition to several aspects with the logic of conservation, one, which is: "that, having the proper ecological characteristics, contribute to the progress of the local populations and communities of the space and its environment, serving as a dynamic element of the orderly development of the area". I say this, because that law, which is currently in force, speaks of conservation, but it also speaks of rural development. It is a law with a multifunctional view of nature conservation, which understood that conservation and protection cannot move away from maintaining the human presence in the territory, as well as its economic activity. Activity that, by the way, has kept the different spaces in a state of sufficient conservation for scientists and administrations to be fixed on them and to establish protection mechanisms. Protected natural spaces are not exclusive nature reserves. No, no, They are spaces of coexistence between flora and wildlife, landscape, rivers and human beings with economic activities. For this reason, if those who live and work in an area will be affected by the regulations governing the area in which they live and work, man, it seems logical that they should be taken into account in particular. Too often the conservationist regulations of the rural environment have been implemented from urban or ultra-scientific criteria. Too often the conservation of rural nature has been confined to creating spaces exclusively designed for the enjoyment of the urban world, and that is not the way our group wants these things to be done. And I will end with a quote from whom I and many generations of biologists consider the great teacher of Ecology, the Catalan doctor Margalef, who said in his work entitled Between Thermodynamics and the Game "Thinking that man is part of nature must stimulate cooperative action, but the important thing is to maintain an open attitude, trying to avoid the momentary pressures of fashion ideologies. "Actually, the most militant ideologies lie a little outside ecological consideration, because they tend to see man as something far apart from nature, with the destiny of being its owner or executioner." And now I'm talking. In my humility, I believe – and without having spoken seriously to her – that nature, as Maeterlinck said, does not want happiness, most of the time what it wants is to be left alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u91	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good evening to all. If there's any natural and natural resources on the mountainline of the Gastike, it's confirmed. And that's why this area, this region, has to be protected. For this purpose the management of natural resources was indispensable, and we needed a plan of organising natural resources. He tried to accept that plan in 2010, but a lot of appreciatives were introduced and that's why he's stopped for the last five or four years. In order to make this move, in the month that passed, our party demanded the appearance of the viceroy, and we mentioned in this scene that two tools were indispensable to proceed with this subject: On the one hand, to seek for harmony, and on the other to develop political promotion. Consensus and political momentum. These were, from our point of view, the two fundamental tools that we highlighted in the appearance that we requested from the Vice-President of the Environment last March, to see how to unlock the issue of the Mounts of Vitoria. Consensus and political momentum. Consensus to make the protection of the most fragile spaces compatible with the traditional uses of the population. And here I have to say to Mr Telleria, who says that well, that the PORN has to establish whether natural values exist, and I believe that scientists have already established, for a long time, that these natural values, and not only the natural ones, but also the cultural ones, exist on the Mounts of Vitoria. And that is why, precisely because of this, what we have to look for is that traditional uses – which are not all sustainable – are compatible with the preservation of those more fragile spaces and those natural values. And for that, and in that I do agree with Mr Tellería, the PORN is the right tool. The PORN to order human activities, making an initial proposal, establishing the appropriate allegations and definitively approving that PORN. And that was attempted by the Basque Government in 2010 and yet it was not achieved. And among the factors that caused it not to be achieved, the vice-counsel, in her appearance, said three: the concern of the inhabitants, the disinformation of the inhabitants and also the presence of external pressures. External pressures which, of course, are not desirable in such a process, and I believe that in that we agree all the formations. That is why, although there has been political momentum in this process, it must also be said that the political momentum itself is not enough; it needs the consensus that I have also expressed. Because there's been political momentum. There has been a political impulse from the government: there was in 2010, when the first PORN was launched, and it seems that there will be in 2018, as the vice-counsel said in her appearance. And there has also been political momentum since the opposition, because I have to remember that in the City Hall there were motions in September 2015 and there have been in May 2018. There was momentum at the General Councils in July 2014, and at this very Basque Parliament in June 2010, March 2015 and June 2016. But that political momentum has served nothing without the necessary consensus. That is why, when we saw from Elkarrekin the proposal made by the People's Group through this GNP that we discussed today, it seemed to us that it was a very appropriate proposal, and we decided not to amend it. Do not amend it, because it was a very similar proposal to that which had been unanimously adopted by the City Council just a month earlier. And I have to say that good, for once again, a laudable initiative by Mrs López de Ocariz, however when it comes time to agree and to negotiate it, because it is weakening, it is dissolving, and we end up in a transaction like the one we have, which is not by far the good proposal that she had initially made, and I also have to say that, well, from this it is also learning, and next time I will look for some spelling fault, some accent, some coma that amends it, in order not to have to then decide whether to scare or die. Because what you have done – which I also have to say that, in the interests of this consensus that I am defending, I will vote in favour, we will vote in favour of our group – does leave the original proposal of the People's Party in three ways quite elusive: Firstly, because it does not contain a clear legal figure that was the natural park of Montes de Vitoria, which did contain the original proposal of the People's Party. Because, on the other hand, the scope of protection is not specific either. Mrs López de Ocariz called for adequate protection of the area initially defined; that is, the 13,000 hectares collected by the 2010 PORN, and here we are now talking about the effort to expand the current protected area, which, as we have to remember, is only 2,000 hectares. I mean, the difference is very substantial. And finally, the scope of protection is also well devalued, because Mrs López de Ocariz, in her initial proposal, was talking about tackling and clearing the threats of transformation and loss of natural values, and in the transaction we are talking only about natural values, when really – Mrs Red said so too – what initially motivated the first processing of the PORN in 2010 were the transformation threats linked to the issue of fracking. However, I have to say that, in the interests of that consensus that we are defending, we are going to vote in favour of this transaction and all I hope is that there is not a higher instance to go to, with another transaction, it will not be that of transaction in transaction, from the City Hall to beyond, we end up in that we do not need anything and that we are as well as we were, that is a little what Mr Telleria has come to say on behalf of the PNV. And for my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. We're going over to the answering shift. Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u93	I am sorry for those who asked me to be brief, but it is that Mr Becerra, therefore, has gone too far in interpreting some documents. Indeed, our group, at the number one point, was talking about natural park, and I did it on purpose, because that is what we have always defended, but you, you Can –Irabazi in the City Hall of Vitoria – have never talked about natural park in the initiative you presented. They haven't talked about space, no. It says: "The Plenary of the City Council of Vitoria shows its strong support for the declaration of the area of Montes de Vitoria as a protected natural space and for the reactivation of the process announced by the Basque Government". Point. So don't tell me that what you have proposed in the City Hall of Vitoria and what you have taken to the City Hall of Vitoria is more demanding than what we have approved here. No! No! I put that figure, knowing that it was going to be corrected, because what is being promoted from the Government, just like here, is that it is a protected natural space, without determining the figure, that the figure, well, will pass us reports knowing what each figure will carry. And that too will be in public information; that too will be known. Therefore, do not cheat me, it is not more demanding what you present in the city council; it is much lower, much lower; you have not agreed on the sector that lives in the environment, on agriculture, on livestock, on the citizens, on the interinstitutional participation, on the participation of the social partners: you have not agreed on that, Mr Becerra! So, I don't think there's any justification for what you've put here. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Collect EH. Mrs. problemon will not speak a word... Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo... Not even. Mr. Tellería? No. And together Podemos? Not even. [[Berber]] Now that the debate is over, I'll vote for the Basque Popular Groups, the EH Collectors, the Eukal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-21.u95	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium is accepted. I'll read you an institutional statement next. The International Day institutional representation of the refugees. On the international day of the refugees, by means of this institutional expression, the Basque legislature expresses it: "One. It's millions of people who have been shifted, who have been forced to migrate, who have requested protection, or who have been refugeed. The survival, liberty, or life of these persons are in danger for several reasons, and these persons are obliged to escape from their native country. By this circumstance the Euskarian law expresses its uneasiness, and demands that the Basque institutions and society should do whatever they can to do, to destroy or to mitigate the consequences of this state. "Two. Likewise, in this international context, girls and girls and women are more exposed to being torn apart by their human rights, just because they're women. For this reason it is necessary that they should consider the measures and the policies which will attend to it. "Hiru. In view of this reality, Parliament recognises the solidarity expressed and demonstrated by Basque society and, in line, reaffirms its commitment to the human rights of all persons and, in particular, its commitment and commitment to respect, protection and promotion of the rights of displaced persons, forced migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, and will therefore promote all the means within its competence to ensure that the exercise of all the rights that assist them is real and effective. "Lau. Within the framework of its powers, the Basque Parliament undertakes to promote the right of asylum in all its dimensions, so that it can be effectively exercised by residents or transiting through Euskadi, and to promote autonomous and local policies that focus on people's needs, coexistence and social cohesion, based on the principle of equal opportunities and non-discrimination. "And five. The Basque parliament is engaged in order to reach Congress and the Parliament of the European Union by means suitable to the interests of the European Union, in order to begin a profound discussion about the state of the emigrants and the refractants who cross the European territory. In this discussion, which is required, they will be examined and reviewed, including the foreign policy, the limits, the dispersal policy, the reception policy of the countries, and the responsibility of all the members of the State, and the reception policy of the whole European Union." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three and three in the afternoon.
