ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'm going to start the whole meeting, so sit down in your seats. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, a distant confession made by the members of the U.S. E.A.S. P.I.P.S.S.S.A.st. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u1	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Looking at social, economic, and communicative development, family politics, educational politics, and the equality of genera are considered as fundamental in all Europe. In their childhood, they create conditions which contribute to the equality of opportunity and social motion, facilitate the growth and transition to their senior age, protect the families with their children, and tend to achieve the complete maintenance of women. We have the Basque Council of the Family, composed of the Representatives of the Public Institutions, and of the Houses of Family, as well as of domesticity. On the 20th of December past, this council approved by unanimous consent the document which imposes on the family and children a new Basque pact. This treaty supposes a public engagement, and the importance of families acknowledges human relations, social education, and commonitarian intercourse. He wagers a family ambition on the best conditions of life. The pact takes on a decalogue of commitments aimed at ensuring minimum economic resources for all families with children, making it easier for parents to devote all necessary time to their daughters and children, promoting youth emancipation and self-reliant life projects, or, in general, improving governance of family and child policy in Euskadi. The treaty for family and childhood was introduced in the 18th of January preceding, and the practice, which is called "Sequilling," has begun to assist families with commitments, measures, and specific funds. Doing the plan. On the whole, the President, after the valuation of the present activities, what are the priorities which you impose upon your family in this new plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u3	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Far away, sir, I want to show that the Basque Council of the Family protects by unanimous consent the treaty of Faith and Child. In this council the representatives of the popular administration, social institutions, patricians, and unions participate. At the present day the community which gives the most money to the families is made famous for the most part. I will explain six examples of the remarkable state of our situation; One. Helps for birth, and support for self-life, family, and work. Last year, we were in support of 47,000. The total was 63 million euros. Two. Policy for positive parenthood. In 2017, 300 professionals in health, education, and social service had their training and their 144 families. Three. The politics of the family intermediary. So in 2017, more than 2,000 files were released and 9,000 people received their attention. Four. A bet on the reply to the review. In this corner, the council service received over 44,000 visits and over 300 personal consultations. Five. Complimentary measures in the company. We've set up a pilot of experience. it advises the physicians to know how to insert the measures of treatment into their works. And six. Children's schools work for the Parthians. In fact, it's an exemplary tool throughout the state. These are models, but in any case, it is true that the rate of birth is very small in the Eukadin. It means, therefore, that the bet in favor of families with children ought to be stronger, and so it will be. It is the purpose of the new plan to increase and expand positive policies. Demography and support for families is a country challenge, a priority for the Government, and our commitment is to increase resources in the new Family Support Plan. We will expand the initiatives and budgets in all the actions of the plan: support for the birth and reconciliation of personal, family and work life; positive parenting policies; family mediation; responsible conciliation service; advising companies to introduce conciliation measures into their structures; and supporting the Haurreskolak Consortium. Euskadi is today, by contrast, the most supportive community for families. It is also true that birth rates are very low. This means we have to do more. The new plan aims to extend and expand proactive and positive policies. The pact for families and children has the unanimous support of the Basque Family Council, is a country pact, and we have signed a decalogue of commitments that brings us closer to the European model, where family policies, educational policies and gender equality policies are considered key to social and also economic development. These commitments will enable us to advance investment in children, create conditions that promote equal opportunities and social mobility; facilitate employment, emancipation and the transition to adulthood of young people; support families with children and children; and facilitate women's access to quality and paid employment, reducing the wage gap that currently exists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "About my Kortja, a member of the staff of the KRGD, who answers to the new things that are being founded in society." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u5	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislative class, chief of departments, President, good morning. Although certain facts and statistics show that we're overcoming the hardest side of the crisis, they're extremely troubling about the reality that's being fixed in our town. To mention certain indicators, we have the prevention of the functional structure, the propagation of the poor workers, the chronification of poverty, or the negligation of productive industry. But there are more signs of the future, full of the signs and uncertainty of the present difficult condition. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, if the mission of a strong government is to anticipate such and such a challenges and come to them, if you'd like to ask me if, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to know if it's a good idea whether it's a good answer to the new things that are shooting in society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, we are familiar with the affairs of society and new realities. It's our priority to provide proper answers. It is true that the macronomical data on growth and employment is not exactly the reflection of the social and economic situation, but these data show a new and better reality: He's been growing up in the next quarter of a Euskka. In fact, jobs have grown up in the past year, and more than 18.600 people have gone to the Social Security. Although the search is a positive evolution, many people live in very complicated situations. We're aware of that. The crisis has had severe consequences: They're going to work as you said. They're in trouble. People who don't have a decent apartment. We're already aware of it and we make decisions. social expenditure has grown up in budgets. In particular, it's 77% of the entire budget. Euskadin, 60,000 family units, and 1200,000 people to guarantee incomes of income benefit. Of these, there are 12,000 workers who have the presidency, and who are able to arrive at the minimum wage of socializing by their income. Public employment will grow: 4.500 new Squares, we'll give our first chance of work to 6,700 young, we've agreed to the pact of Familia, and we've set up a plan for the inspectorship to avoid frauds, which is called "copago," and we've regulated the subjective right to have a decent apartment... There's a lot to do yet, but we're on the right track. Maybe we'll get out of the crisis a little slower. It's just that we all get together, and that's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u9	Yes, thank you. We won't deny the facts you gave us. And it is true that uncertainty is being installed, Mr. Urcullu, in our society, uncertainty for many persons. And these people have no time to slow down. The reality has come upon us, Mr. Urkullu. The facts which you have admitted that society is becoming dilativating are obvious. It is also evident that the people of society are growing larger and larger, and they are objective. That society is changing, and that society of euscal must answer to new phenomena, is manifest. Maybe it's the difference of the "B" mark "B," but it is. We won't say that your government doesn't do anything and that maybe you're not giving your best, but in that cohesion of country you've talked so much about, there's plenty of people who're stuck behind, and they don't have time, and your fat words and your plans aren't enough. We see the price of lowering unemployment for a month and the signs of what we're doing are obvious: it is a case of long-term unemployed men, of women's prevarication, of another, of 350 thousand persons without convictions... There's a block. In spite of their lack of development, we have seen how many of their futures are to be seen on the uncertain view of workers, pensioners who live in the pre-collection. And many of the families you've mentioned and many of them will be exposed to the restrictions imposed by your government in this year's budgets. And there are so many children and so many young children who have no future and no personal projects. What does this government offer to those who make the "B" of this people? How quickly will he answer all this? Can you keep reading the data with the triumphalistic readings? Will you continue without a hitch? Can you follow me without a new idea? Because the recipes you always present to new phenomena are eternal. The usual, rounded up in round plans and strategys, are not eternal. We think it's time for us to get out of this Konfort and offer a project to this country. And that's the project that won't let anyone down. And for this we must also be independent, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja, you're determined to see everything black and dark, you can tell the negative side of Euskade that everything is wrong... What's the ones I've been talking about? What's the ones I'm talking about? Do we have to keep getting better? Okay. But I want to ask you: Look around us! You will notice that it is the lowest rate of unemployment in Euskka, the highest social expense, the lowest poverty rate, the greatest expense in education or in health for each citizen... That, too, is the reflection of reality. Look, we know the problems, Mrs. Kortajarena, and we face them. One thing: as employment grows, income guarantee income has fewer recipients, but we maintain budget investment. Even with fewer collectors, we maintain budget investment. An example. In Euskadi, 12,000 people receive public aid to raise their wages to income-guarantee income; it is an effort of society as a whole at the initiative of this Government. Is it this government's responsibility? No; it is an effort of this Government. We know the problems, but it is undeniable that Euskadi has recovered his pulse. Invest, export, grow and create jobs, Mrs Kortajarena. In 2017 we have registered 915,000 people employed on an annual average, the highest in six years, and the industry has been the main player in job creation, with growth of 4.6%, the largest since 2001. We're better, and there's a lot more to do. Much remains to be done. The first pillar of our government program is more and better employment. We will continue to work to involve all economic and social actors in this concept of more employment and higher quality, with the efforts of all. We are clear about the strategy and the way forward to respond to present and future needs in a sustainable, stable and secure manner.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with the members of the Podemos team to the president, the borderining on the investigation of the De Miguel case." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u13	Mr. President, good morning. El passro se abrió la Oral del mayor caso de corruption jubilado el caso De Miguel. Unfortunately, it's not the only one or the first, especially for your party. The investigation of this complex case has been carried out by the Ertzaintza, which is being harshly questioned and is attacked and criticized for it. On other occasions when our police have been publicly attacked, the Basque Government has not hesitated to defend itself. Mr. Lehendakari, will your Government publicly defend the work of the Ertzaintza in the investigation of the "De Miguel" case?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, the edge has been acting as a judicial police officer all the time, and has accompanied him wherever the courts asked him to. The work of the border has received no complaint, but, on the contrary, it has done an extraordinary work, and has confessed it to those who have submitted to its work. The most important thing is that the trial has already begun, as you say. The government will have a respectful and respectful attitude. The trial may last ten months; time and resources are sufficient to examine the evidence presented, and to clear up the facts which are judged. And from here, Mr Martínez, respect for the conduct of the trial and the decisions taken by the court; respect also the presumption of innocence of the persons tried, and, of course, absolute support for the professionalism of the Ertzaintza as judicial police, which has contributed at all times to everything that has been requested of it. The Government is personified in the trial. It is not for us to value the words of the defences or the comments of the Prosecutor's Office. It is not for us to judge the judicial strategies of the parties. It is up to us to defend the public interest, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u17	Look, lehendakari, I am convinced that Basque citizenship is happy to hear you say that you defend the work of Ertzaintza as judicial police, but what Basque citizenship would really like is to believe your words, to believe you, to believe your government and to believe your party, the PNV. And for that he needs words and deeds to say the same thing. And they don't, because his government's defense of these alleged corrupt members of his party follows the corruption manual, which is based on three premises, to the letter. First, to deny the importance of the facts, to say that they are isolated cases. This was described by his spokesman, Mr Erkoreka. Twenty-six isolated cases in Araba, organized into a plot and all from the same party. Very little isolated. The second step is to deny that the party was involved, to say that no one knew anything. There you went, Mr Urkullu, denying that this is an irregular funding plot, which has not been investigated, and saying that your performance, that of the PNV, has been exemplary. And the third rule of the manual is to call into question the investigation of the case, to slip that it is not a fair trial, to slip that the requests for punishment for his fellow defendants is excessive, to shut up when the defenses of these defendants say that the Ertzaintza has not done his job well, to shut up when they say that the evidence has not been properly guarded, that the police officers have exceeded themselves in the records or with the seizure of the evidence... And in the face of these grave accusations against the Ertzaintza no one in the leadership of the Ertzaintza itself has publicly come out to defend the work of the agents of the case. No one in your Government, neither you nor your spokesman, has said anything in defense of these agents so far. And the worst is that they have also not disallowed the spokesman of their party, who is curiously not here today, Mr Egibar, when this very week he defended the innocence of his imputed party comrades. His party is affected by a very serious case of corruption. Basque citizenship must know that there are twenty-six accused, almost all high PNV officials, which is a case with twelve ramifications, who will appear more than one hundred and fifty people, 21,000 summary leaflets... And in the face of this scandalous reality, Mr Urkullu, you are not being the lehendakari of all Basques. He's being the lehendakari friend of these twenty-six defendants. His Government was a person in the case, indeed, as he had said, but looked elsewhere, its role was not relevant. He's not asking for punishment against the defendants; he's quiet, he's quiet. Does Mr Urkullu really believe that his Government can remain passive in this situation? We're not talking about anything. We are talking about a case in which the impunity with which the members of his party acted was total, it was rude: they asked for bites with the official head of the institutions, they asked for commissions to award public contracts, they charged bills that had paid all Basques for the work they did. And before this, know three things. The first is that their attitudes are ethically and politically reprehensible; they do not meet the minimums that are required of us. The second, which we say loud and clear that the work of the prosecution and the Ertzaintza in this case is exemplary...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u18	Your time is up... Your time is up! Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u19	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Martínez, I repeat, the government is a person at trial. It is not for us to value the words of the defenses, nor the comments of the Prosecutor's Office. It is not for us to judge the judicial strategies of the parties. It is up to us to defend the public interest. That's how we're gonna do it. I told you in the first speech. Mr. Martínnez, if you have any evidence in the legal camp that is connected with this trial, which the court does not know, you must present that proof. If you have none of that, I hope you will have prudence and responsibility to respect the work of justice. Mr. Martinez, as lehendakari, as former president of the Basque Nationalist Party... Like what you're talking to me, or what you're asking me? At the institutional and political level, it should be recalled how quickly the Arab Foreign Ministry and the Basque Nationalist Party responded. The people now tried ceased their charges in a few hours, and they also ceased their militancy. However, in 2010 and now these decisions have always been accompanied by respect for the principle of presumption of innocence. And it will allow me to remind you of what I did, what I wrote, what I published in 2010, on April 1, 2010, days after the facts were judged. "Question of principles", this is what I published on April 1, 2010, and I will tell you: "The measures promoted by the representatives of EAJ/PNV have been immediate and severe. We were moved to this by reasons of political prudence, taking into account the seriousness of the accusations. We do not know the course of events. We want everything to be clarified as quickly as possible and with adequate guarantees for those involved." 1 April 2010. "It is not up to us to judge the veracity of the accusations, but to adopt measures that safeguard not only the political project of the PNV, but the dignity of the same policy." The trial is being held today, and the Basque Government is going to do what it has to do: defend the public economic interest, safeguard the presumption of innocence of all people, respect work and judicial decisions, and wait for the final verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the USSal Socialists of the United States were made to increase the number of residents of environments, Land Planets, and Ho housing departments." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Counselor, access to decent housing is probably a fundamental problem for citizens, in terms of the need or the purpose of undertaking an autonomous life project, whether alone or as a couple. The year 2015 marks a historic milestone in the history of this country, with the approval by this very Parliament of the Housing Act, a law promoted by the socialists and which had broad support from this House, with the support of groups that are also represented here today. A law that enshrines the right to decent and adequate housing. A law that focuses its efforts on rental policy and on protecting the most needy, the least resourced and thus more difficult to access. I know that the momentum in the development and implementation of this law is one of the main objectives of your department. An object we share, a journey that – I will not deny – we understand that it is tremendously laborious, but as laborious as it is necessary. I am also aware that they are about to approve the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan, and also that they are doing so with a broad participation of citizens, of collectives, of movements, of individuals; a plan that marks the objectives and commitments regarding housing. And that they are also working on the decree of recognition of the subjective right to housing, a milestone, one of the fundamental pillars of that law that previously mentioned it. As they are also working on the drafting of the decree on access to housing, which will establish quotas for young people, among other collectives. Therefore, decrees of vital importance for that law to take shape, to be pushed forward, and truly to be a valid and effective tool in the day-to-day life of our citizens. Their commitment to this law, to its development, not only translates into those decrees and plans. You are working on a clear boost to rental policies, and that is noted, among other things, in the increase in the budget, by more than 4% in 2017 compared to the previous year's budget. In 2017 we know that there has been an increase in housing applicants in the Etxebide register compared to 2016, and that undoubtedly has an implication, a clear economic implication, but it also has a clear implication in everything regarding the planning of your department. Therefore, in view of these data, in view of this increase in the number of applicants for housing in the Etxebide register, I would like to ask you what are the causes of this increase in the number of applicants for housing in the Etxebide register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Andueza, over the past year there has been a significant increase in the number of persons registered in the Etxebide register as applicants for housing. Specifically in this year a total of 13,076 highs were accounted for, so once the casualties were corrected, the result is a net increase of 9,190 applicants. This is the largest increase in a single year since 2005. At the end of 2017, the number of applicants in Etxebide increased from 53,327 in 2016 to 62,517, representing a very significant increase of 14.7% per year, although it is true that these figures are still far from the 92,000 applicants registered in 2009. Of these, 51,171 (81.9%) and 11,344 (18.1%) were chosen for rent. This is the reverse of what happened before, before the crisis, in which the majority option was the purchase. What are the causes of this remarkable increase? Well, although it is not easy to determine precisely, it is most likely due to the confluence of two movements produced in the heat of the economic recovery process. On the one hand, people who are now considering accessing a home, when they didn't do it before. And, on the other hand, people who in the toughest moments gave up and now re-enrol in Etxebide. All this in the context of the expectations generated by the effective entry into force of the right to housing and the commitment made by my department in favour of boosting rental housing policies. There are some significant details in this claim. For example, 46% of last year's discharges are for children under thirty-five years of age, indicating where we should concentrate part of our efforts. But it is also true that the average age of the total number of applicants has been raised, which is between thirty-five and fifty years old by 47% and over fifty years old by 22%. As regards the typology of new applicants, 68.6% of last year's discharges are for single persons, but it is also noteworthy that the percentage of divorced and separated (14.3%) is already close to that of married persons (15.3%). Beyond these details, there is a reality that is imposed: 46,763 cohabitation units (74.8% of the total) have revenues ranging between 3,000 and 20,000 euros. Behind this data there are people and life expectations, and what these data show us is that there are many people in our country whose housing aspirations are not going to be satisfied by the free market, and also many young people whose only option of emancipation is a social housing for rent. And this situation can go further, because with the outbreak of the economic crisis the average income level of those registered in Etxebide has been reduced by 20%. This increase in demand also shows us the important effort that we have to make in a sustained way from the public administrations to try to respond to a demand that is supported by our Housing Law and that requires all institutions to work more, more imagination and, above all, more resources to meet it in the most appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the Torruitions between 1960 and 2014." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, very good morning. Can you imagine that in any parliament in the world a government would submit a report stating that the police that depend on that government are involved in more than 300 cases of torture, which have been practiced in a manner that goes beyond sporadically, often practically systematically? What do you think that parliament would do? What would that government then have to do that affirms such a thing? Don't you think I'd have to start looking for responsibilities then? That is what you have done, and what you have referred to this House. And they have brought us a report that casts the shadow of suspicion on the Ertzaintza, in which he is directly attacked in his honorability, in his right to be presumed, assumed and affirmed that he is a responsible police, that he is a police who has done what throughout his entire existence is to defend the freedoms and rights of all. Can you imagine that this can also be affirmed in a democratic State governed by law, where there is an independent judiciary and a system of guarantees, where there has been no single case of conviction of a public official of the Ertzaintza for ill-treatment or torture? I sincerely want to give you the opportunity to defend – as I believe is your duty, your responsibility as a lehendakari – the honour of Ertzaintza, and also to defend the work you have done for very hard years against terrorism, and to say that you have been persecuted, that you have been murdered and that you have planted before ETA, who is the one who tortured, who is the one who extortioned and who killed on this earth. But you refer the report because you are playing a game of equidistance, and you want to build a story in which there is an equidistance between violence and in which you have to raise victims on both sides, and in which you want to explain that what happened in Euskadi was a conflict between different violence. And that game has consequences, and that game is negative, and that game ends up justifying ETA and eroding democratic institutions, which is what happens in this case. The Ertzaintza is a police that deserves to be respected and deserves to be defended by you, and I am sure you will. But then why does this report send us to Parliament? What does Parliament want to do with that report? Do you want us to establish as a parliamentary truth that Ertzaintza actually tortured? How are we going to establish that! You have to withdraw that report that has been brought here, and you have to criticize it, and you have to say that that is not true. And I ask you to do so as lehendakari, because it seems to me important, not only to you: for those who have been sitting in that seat before you, for those who have had political responsibilities in the direction of Ertzaintza before you, and also for those who are wearing that uniform today. I think it is important for me to say this, but for the Basques as a whole, that we have the right to think that our institutions have always had impeccably democratic behaviour. Therefore, I ask you, I ask you to make those statements. I'm sure he's going to defend it, because I think it can't be otherwise and because, being on the opposite assumption, what would be the consequence of all that? I therefore ask you and I also give you the opportunity to do so here this morning, and to convey a message of support, of support for Ertzaintza, and of confidence in our institutions as well. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, I'm going to try to be as clear as possible. If I always try, on this occasion even more. United Nations Committee against Torture, Council of Europe, Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch have expressed concern about cases of torture in Spain. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has sentenced the Spanish State on eight occasions for failing to investigate allegations of torture. The Peace and Coexistence Plan 2013-2016 of the last legislature provided for the conduct of an investigation into torture in Euskadi. In 2014 we commissioned the Basque Institute of Criminology of the Basque Public University, under the scientific direction of Paco Exeberria. Introducing the report, I consider it necessary to record three realities. First, the investigation carried out, in order of your written question, has not collected anonymous complaints. All complaints have identified complainants, and on many occasions they have been recorded and ratified. Secondly, the main differential conclusion of the report with regard to Ertzaintza is that the Basque police have structurally promoted a preventive model positively valued by the supervisory and human rights institutions. The report confirms the i-ne-xis-ten-cia of judicial convictions for torture against Ertzaintza; the i-ne-xis-ten-cia of allegations of torture against Ertzaintza by international institutions; and the i-ne-xis-ten-cia of convictions of the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights for lack of investigation (for lack of investigation). Thirdly, the report does not offer conclusions on a case-by-case basis. It provides an approach to the global reality of the problem of torture and ill-treatment. The same applies to reports commissioned by the Basque Government on the impact of ETA harassment on threatened persons, or ETA harassment of Ertzaintza, or harassment of families with the revolutionary tax. Reports commissioned by the Basque Government, also in relation to the condition of Ertzaintza. These investigations have given a voice to the complainants and focused on the victims. Based on his testimony, a rigorous contrasting methodology has been developed. Its outcome allows for critical reflection on specific human rights violations, whether ETA's threat to Ertzaintza, harassment of families with the revolutionary tax, persecution of threatened persons, or torture and ill-treatment. These violations have existed, and the victims deserve recognition. And in relation to Ertzaintza, I insist, this study shows that the defining and structural aspects of Ertzaintza have been the prevention of torture. And I am proud of the Ertzaintza, for its contrasted preventive model, also for its willingness to collaborate with this study, always with this constructive spirit of taking responsibility, improving public service and greater guarantee of rights. This transparency and disposition of the Ertzaintza is the best objective indicator of the prevention model that characterizes our police. The Ertzaintza and the Basque Government have done what the international human rights institutions recommend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso shouldn't speak a word... Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Council to the president, the right to decide, and the new political state of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u29	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The question is very simple, if you consider the right of deciding, is that the new state of Autobernus of this Parliament would be annihilated, as the Socialist Party leader of your government believes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u31	Chief of Parliament. Mrs. Irrie, you know, you know, you know, Mrs. Masters, the whole thing, he's got a government program, and we stick to that government program, and we don't go into political parties, the strategics, and that's where he's located in the parliamentary law. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. But when I ask you about your government and your government, as it often happens to me, you're giving me a little "A donde vas, manzanas traigo." And there are some agreements you have, but then you make other arrangements, and you accept other things that weren't in the bargain and other matters. When you took the office (yes, don't laugh, Mr. Urkullu), when I asked you often about this matter, you have always told me what you said to me today: I'm going to the Auto-gourge. But things have changed slightly since then. Things have changed in your government, both from your hand and perhaps more technically, even from Mr. Erkoreek. And all this time it seems to me that the stage of auto-organization has receded, even though your government accepted a new concert and made a sort of celebration. And it seems to me that there is such a thing as a celebration, but in the size we can celebrate it, it seems serious to me that something we know is going to celebrate after many years. That sounds really serious to me. And it's more serious than that, it's true, I think the Spanish attitude: always recreative, but now it has lost all shame. And not only the Spanish Government, but also the State of Spain, the article 155 of the Constitution, which is entirely decried by the Constitution of the Court of the Constitution, which answers those who have not been questioned... The use of force too. And your government, it seems to me, has a serious problem in that sense, because you have a member of the government that protects that position. This same week, the Constitutional Court of Spain has shown us that our sea-side-side is not ours (to be sure) to guard our land and environment, though it is not our jurisdiction, but that it is not our jurisdiction, that I speak of the law of d'Art d'Arquecing, of the people of Parma, who have come here to this parliament, and this law of Parliament. They destroy the decisions of this parliament, and now and then. And the decision of yesterday's superiors, whether or not the officials of this country can work for 35 hours, seems terrible to me because we can't decide how much our hours are going to be, and then the cleaners stay in the aspage, but we must make political decisions, political decisions, as well as political decisions. Una pollítica, una respusta pollia mayúscula, y no encogerse de hombros, como si llovi. Porque no llueve, hoy nieva. Y a lo que asceticos es una ofensiva en toda regla. That is why I will repeat the question in another way: how do you intend to deepen self-government, if the Spanish State always reserves the last word, always has the skillet for the handle? Your fellow government calls it self-recognized, but they don't even apply to 155. The key to the decision is the right, Mr. Urkullu, but will it be a key or, as a comrade on your side says, we shall not proceed with the right to decide? You're the president and you've got a big deal on your side. I don't know what you're gonna say on your side, but what are you gonna say to this town, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Arnuldo Ocera said yesterday that if the Spanish powers do not approve of the right to decide, EH Collect will not go into the mountains. Well... First of all, I want to remind you that he was introduced to a specific program in front of this parliamentary law. Based on our political project, we agreed to a government program. The first two parties agreed to discuss the rights of deciding in the Autogobernu Workgroup. We've made this commitment, and I'll read it to you: "In this assembly of legislation, to reflect, to debate, and to make use of the auto-gourical Commission, which is expressly agreed upon, to make itself understood by the most comprehensive agreement of the several, and to agree to the principles and principles which will guide the trial of change." To obtain this consent, only four months ago (the country, the people, the people), four months ago, I made a profound contribution. There were five thoughts, Mrs. Irriart, and I will not repeat them. I know the Social Party has its planning, of course different. But so it is with EH Collect, together with Podemos and Popular Party. Five sides, five views, and different proposals. Even the Jelt Party has explained its position. It's written in our election program and it says: "To acknowledge the right to project on historical conditions ought to be decided by a constitutional reform. Or, in his case, the consideration of the first historical rights of the Spanish Constitution may be considered as a starting-point. The ancient, natural, and constitutional police reality of the land which constitutes the Basque people is clearly considered. The practice of his auto-generacy by legitimizing him, and keeping the right to the future. The citizens of that country always express themselves in harmony with the free and democratic will." (I don't know whether or not Arnuldo Or not agrees with what the baker had said.) It is a key, known and accepted by different propositions, and whether it is possible to make a great and a great deal of bargain. This is the responsibility of the legislatures in the presence of the euscal society. For that purpose, there must be more bridges and fewer conditions. Society demands an agreement between us and the agreement we have to make to present to society a proposal agreed upon. I defend the agreement between the several, and I will make no necessary conditions or veto. Mrs. Iriarte, the ball is in your field. Don't look at me, look at the rest of the games. Take responsibility, Mrs. Iriarte; don't pass the ball to me and run away. It has to play with, it has in the field the four parliamentary groups, which together with you have the opportunity to reach an agreement. You also try, because it is the responsibility of this Parliament as a whole. It's not about no one giving up anything. It's about finding meeting points and focusing on what unites us. Self-government is a common good. I suggest some verbs that we can conjugate together: recognize, respect, update, deepen, advance, agree... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Intertermination, Internation of the Cianova Alonso, members of the United States of the Department of Economics and Sub-Separations of EAE industry, planning to promote public investments." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u37	Good morning. Well, given Mr. Urkullu's recent division of responsibilities, I have no choice but to start by saluting in a little special way: lehendakari..., lehendakari... Let's imagine that when a person dies, he lends it to you as a inheritance in his will a building, a building in a city neighborhood, and decides in the building that this inheritance has made, say, to make an ambulance. On principle, we should all think that an ambulance is a good thing, but suppose there are protests in the neighborhood saying that the ambulance isn't the priority. What would we say that these people don't like an ambulances? Let's hear the people who don't agree what people say. Perhaps we are told that the anmbulatorys are necessary, but that in this neighborhood already exists an ambulance, and that it does well with the services that this neighbourhood requires. But the dwelling of the elder is not, and it is naturally preferred, because it is more necessary to put in this building a residence of old men than an ambulance. When a thing is often criticised, it is not only censured because it is opposed to that thing, but because it has not been observed in the context, and because the priors have not been sufficiently measured. Something similar happened to us in January when the government decided to buy some shares in the CAF company. The critics were heard everywhere, and most critics did not criticize the substance of what they had done, but the forms of what they had done. And shapes are important. The contexts and privileges must be examined to determine about the propriety of a decision. And in this operation, about CAF's operation, there are elements, I won't say obscure (for everything, I think, is pretty obvious), but they are critical. We believe that this investment has not been made in any particular planning, and it has not been appropriate to form, nor has it been answered to a preference plan which the Government ought to have in public investments. In this investment there have been criticisms, as I said, that stocks have been purchased at more than a market price. Because it was the object of these proceedings to increase the attachment of this enterprise, to increase its attachment to the country, but it has been bought by the stocks in the chest, so that at last the attachment remains where it was. It has also been said that with such operations the ghost or danger of the expression of the determinations of training is meant to be rejected, but in this business there is no doubt that this phantom does not exist, because one third of the other is in the hands of the workers. This operation has also been associated with the nature of the Government in its application, but the foundation does not yet exist. So we think things are getting confusing. And at last it has been said that the true will of the Government is serious, that it has the desire and will to invest it, and that it is in this way that it means to encourage the other operators to participate in it. But we believe that if this operation has been a sign of some kind, it has been a sign of discrepancy, or the line the government has hitherto maintained with it. And the furrow has been contradictory, uncertain, and untrustworthy. We believe that potential operators and investors or members of the government don't expect such strange gestures on this basis. What they hope for is clear. They're not waiting for the smoke signs, they're waiting for the phone calls. 21st we are in the government, and the light is what they expect from the Government. The whole society, the public opinion, and even those sects of this legislature, is what we expect. The government hasn't been serious about this. I'll read what the vice president of EPSV used to say about the government plans. "Stamos dispuestos a invertir en país, pero no vos una strategy clara y coherente." "It is surprising that the Basque Government is talking about a loan fund for business innovation, that the Bizkaia Diputation is doing the same and Gipuzkoa is doing the same. At the same time there is talk of venture capital funds, and each in a different way. All of this requires a debate and a strategy that outlines the operations that are being discussed. In addition, there has been no direct communication," and let's remember that EPSVs are supposedly one of those alleged partners the government wants to incorporate into its investment fund project. Eta jarraitzen du: "There has not been talked previously with financial institutions, there is a whirlwind of statements, but we do not see strategy, deadlines, objectives and who will intervene and how they will conform." This is devastating, because, I say, it does not come from a party that supposedly has a position of exaggerating or underlining the critical and negative aspects, but from one of the movements in which this government's industrial investment policy is based. But it is that this said year and peak, but over these years there have been more statements in this same direction, and the last one we have, still from this month of January, after the operation of CAF... , i.e. only fifteen days ago the president of the EPSV of this country said: "We are open to listen to any proposal from the Basque Government and to evaluate it". That is to say, they were still waiting to hear their proposals, because they were still apparently not directed at them to propose anything to them. And, of course, it's logical that society is confused. You yourself in the last appearance in this House, in which you referred to the investment fund that you want to launch, said: "With the times we are running, from the beginning of 2019 we could start what is called raising the funds." In other words, it was giving in November a deadline of 2019 for the entry into force of a fund. From a fund that was also not going to be addressed as a priority to companies that are already on the stock exchange, although not discarded, it was stressed that it was addressed to those companies of a certain size that require an expansion of capital in order to be able to gain dimension and in the future even to be able to go on the stock exchange, not to those companies that were on the stock exchange. And when it is done quite contrary to what is said, I think a sign is sent, but a sign in the wrong and the contrary direction. You yourself in an interview, of the many to which you have referred to this issue, in September 2016 said: "We need a financial instrument, to which we will not name (sovereign fund, EPSV...), that allows to invest part of those savings in Euskadi in local companies". El problem no es nombre. The Euscex is plainer: his name or his name. It's a problem. The problem is, what we call what we want to do, but the problem is to make it clear what we want to do. And it's not the same thing as an EPSV or a superfluous foundation, or a private public foundation, and we think, as I said yesterday, we've been involved in a constant confessional ceremony, and what we did at the CAF will re-establish that thesis. We believe, therefore, that it is time to speak with all the clearness of this subject, which is so serious. And that's why the fight today. We really want to know what the government wants to do in this area of strategic art, we want to know what time it's going to be, because we want to know how much dimension it is that characterization, how long it will be in force, and we believe that society has a right to know and to exchange opinions and political debate about it. Because we think it's controversial, we have to first know what's going on and then we have to activate a social discussion. At least we must discuss among all those who are to be directed by the money of all (though afterwards, of course, governments have several powers which we all have, and whose opinion will in the end have a Prefect), but we think it good to give a public discussion. We want to know what plans are. When they say it's going to be a private public fund or that private capital will have more weight, how much more weight? In what proportion will capitals be divided? When we're talking about private capital, who are we talking about? The Laboral Ark or Lone Star? Trilantic or MCC? What is this private capital, except that private persons will participate in it, or that some of the references and paraincisional investors will participate in it? I believe that the time has come to place these elements on the table, because we are in a critical moment about the capital of our enterprise and our attachment to the land of that capital. I will now repeat to you what are the critical elements which I mentioned yesterday: because it will create a new fund, and that will be involved in the public funds system until now; because we are placed in an endless loss of decisions (and in this case very important companies have lost the decision, because they have been bought from the outside capital, ITP, Games, and Euscaltels), because the management has been bad, because the government has not completed its inspection by these various companies, and that's because we're on the most important reverse processes in history, because BB-K will sell half of its own bill 1, 1,500 million of capitals, and that's important.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning. Mr. Casanova, I won't begin to talk about an ambulance as you begin, because Mr. Darpón isn't in charge. Well, on the one hand, I'll say that it's to thank him for your interactions, he used to tell her what appears to him, because, according to the EH Collect team, he says, "That's what I'm talking about." But you didn't say the same thing here. But, well, if I stay with the cause, I'm glad to be in that sense. Even though the percentage we took in the CAF company is small, it's a strategic hazard for us, and we thought it was a very suitable operation. First of all, we said that when we took it, it's one, it's the first, but not the only one. This one has a route. And it is important also to explain that this operation is not an isolated action, but rather the result of a strategy. And it's the effect of a solid strategy and reflection. The novelty of the operation was mentioned, and you yourself said that we've taken part in a company that's for the first time in a society, and that's what gives them the singularity right now. There's another more important reason I'd put it in, and it's a business in an strategic sector, no doubt it's that CAF, and because it's a tractor, it's in a very important sector, because it's a huge deal with the suppliers, because it's technological, and it's a world-level nation. In order to make it clear that this acquisition of 1,24% in CAF is not an improvised or isolated decision. It is a strategy that responds to a need, to a need that has been seen over time, that is reflected in our plan of government and that responds to a very thorough analysis of the instruments that we have at this time and of those that remain to be put into operation. It is a strategy that has already been commented upon, both at the beginning of the legislature, when we began to analyze the objectives of the department, as well as in the analysis of the Industrialization Plan, where we spoke precisely..., and I will read it to you, because it is an approved plan, as I mentioned yesterday, and it literally says the plan: "Import a 250 million public-private investment fund to guarantee"... What? Several things: on the one hand, "the growth of our companies and the root of them". And it doesn't mean that in all cases both circumstances are given. Growth and roots, and in very specific enterprises. It says "with technological potential and presence in global markets". You will not deny me that precisely the CAF operation is reflected in this paragraph. On this subject the interest has been aroused, some to criticise, others to applaud (which also must be said). And it's no wonder. This is historically important for us. In this country of manufactured industry many tools have been introduced, not only now. Why? Because, for some other reason, the industry is our backbone, the backbone of our economy. I will confess to you that there is something which surprised me some way in this interference, and which was spoken here yesterday. As you know, we'll be together next Tuesday, and there's a scene called Podemos and the Poptular Party, without you yet hearing what we were going to say and what we were going to argue here, you told us there'd be a motive. It seems, then, that we all want to be here in the middle of what kind of position it is. In a way, I'm glad. I'm glad of it, because we have industry in the middle of the legislature and we think (all the parties) that we must set up financial tools. We have what we've got and maybe they need to get better. If something characterizes the Government in general, and this department in particular, it is precisely that we develop public policies to ensure that our industry is its main objective, within the framework of planning that in some areas is described as modeling. I do not say this: it is qualified within the European Community and by international bodies such as the International Labour Organisation. But don't worry, I'm not going to pry, let's say, that merit of having done this. That is the merit of many governments that also preceded ours and that made a sustained industrial policy over time. And the result is this, a way of doing and planning that is collected, as I have told you, in the Industrialization Plan, but also in the government program and in the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Reactivation. We therefore work on the basis of long-term public policies and adapting the instruments to the specific needs of the company. When we start in the government in the last legislature you will remember perfectly that one of the areas..., from the industrial side we were asked for a very concrete tool, and it was that of financial instruments that allowed a circulation for companies that were in crisis. And what did the government do? Make that tool available. Today that tool is not necessary; although there is the possibility of acting on it, it is not strictly necessary, but it is another type of instrument. Needs that are shared in many cases, and that in others also need to adapt to the specific demands of the corporate fabric, always according to our margins of maneuver, obviously, from the normative point of view, of course; according to financial availability, as it cannot be otherwise, and according to possible applications, joints... And it is not always simple, as you well know, to be imaginative and to put in place new instruments that meet different needs. The business finance policy in the Basque Government is being implemented jointly between two departments, which I am leading and that of Mr Azpiazu, the Department of Finance, which is currently also deploying new financing instruments, which you are well aware of. Instruments that can be of financing, of pure and hard loans, of participatory loans, both through the IUF and through that which you called "loan fund", and which is a financial instrument to meet loans that can be given for two very specific aspects: to finance R & D that is closest to the market, and also for elements of renewable energy, of energy efficiency. But we also have elements that lead us to take part in capital in some cases, both in the entrepreneurship phase and in seed capital, as for the growth of companies, such as venture capital actions for growth, be it via the Basque fund or be it via Ekarpen, we have the Lanpar fund... You were referring to them yourself yesterday. We have two acting funds with the Mondragon Corporation, which is a different corporation and cannot be subject to other funds. Therefore, we try to have a wide range of instruments that fit different needs. And at the moment we are also, according to what was approved in the Industry Plan, doing an in-depth review and a reordering of the instruments we have, of the different funds, to cover different niches of action and detect those in which we are not participating. And it is in this context that this action fund is precisely limited and that, given the opportunity to take on that 1.24% in the CAF company, this action was taken. And where, as both Councilman Azpiazu and I said, in four months we will be willing to give all the details about how that fund will be and how it will be articulated. But keep in mind that of course we are going to have two kinds of performances, that I can advance. One with a vocation of permanence. I believe that you yourself made reference yesterday to such actions, not with the vocation of entry and exit and recovery of a certain financial amount, but with a vocation of permanence, given the strategic nature of these investments. But also those other entry and exit actions, because you may simply need to replace a partner at a time when the company needs different funds and partners (that may be through this fund that we are going to put into operation), or acquisitions, or growth, or international actions. And in those cases it will be in and out of between five or seven years, as a venture capital acts. And it will be in character, as they are all in the government..., what is called a revolt, that is, the money goes back to the fund to launch new actions. So we have many tools to support and strengthen the competition of corporations, and this is one more. But very well considered, and as it was agreed in the Industrial Plan, with a strong reflection between the two departments, and our purpose was very direct. This, to be really settled, to say, is to be considered in four months how much money, how much money, how, and when. And it hasn't been any more coming and going, but things have been settled by labor, and things have gone by measure. Work, not just for fun, but for a lot of operatings, though, as you know, many things are said in private, though we say them in public quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u41	Well, the truth is, yesterday I didn't say that I was definitely going to file a motion, but that the motion would depend on the outcome of today's inquiry, on the response to today's inquiry, and I said that, unless surprise (which has not yet occurred), that motion would be filed. And the surprise would be for you to clarify the things that I have asked you to clarify me through this inquiry, and since you have not clarified them to me... Then you will have five more minutes; for if that surprise does not occur, that is when the motion will come. But it's not a predetermined decision. What happens is that many of us were afraid that we would actually get out of here today, so, more or less exactly as we have gone in. We were very clear in interpelation (I spoke at first, and then I'll come back to some of the things I've said in my first intervention), and we'd say what's the planing, strategy, tactics, goals, and deadlines, and so on, for the appropriate public investment in industrial enterprises. And you're telling me, more or less, "stamos najando enello." And about what will be the main position of this strategy, you've told me four months from now that you'll tell us what you want to do. Look, when you said you gave him the same name as the financial instrument I told him it's that, well, the name is the least, the important thing is the entity, the essence, what we want to do. Because a cat can be called one way or it can be called another, it can be called Zuri or it can be called Pepe, but it is a cat. And a cat is one thing and a dog is another, and the dog may have the same name, but the essence of the two is different. It is not the same as a sovereign fund as an EPSV, nor as a public-private fund. And a public-private fund, that private capital, can have one nature or another. What I want is for us to move forward on what idea is being worked on; if it is a public-private fund, what percentage is public, what percentage is private, and what is the nature of the private investors being sought. Because, if we understand that it has an institutional objective and not merely of financial profitability, then we will be looking – and hopefully so – for investors who can match that. And I say this because we are concerned, because, as we are learning through leaks, or interviews, or press appearances, about how the process is recharacterizing, because each time, of that which could have been a sovereign background at first, we are moving further and further away. And now private capital comes into the first place, second, private capital comes in and is majority, third, it can also be invested in companies outside of Euskadi, because that has also been advanced in the press, and therefore we are witnessing a redefinition on the march that has us worried. And we believe that the debate on what is the financial investment instrument we want to have needs to be brought here. Because it had previously recognized that the Government has powers, and at the last moment of decision-making those powers must be respected, but if we are not actually making an instrument for a government, but for a policy of a shared country, it would be important to seek agreement, the maximum political, social agreement, and obviously also with those agents who are called upon to take part in this fund. And when I told you about the outpatient clinics before, of course, I haven't expressed myself... I've been too metaphorical. We agree that the Government invests. To us, if something seems to us to be critical of the idea of a 250 million fund, it is that it seems to us that those 250 million do not really cover all the needs. But it is certainly a step in the right direction, and therefore that in general terms we are not going to oppose. We are talking about the forms, and we are talking about the characterization that will then be given, and about that we do believe that we must be transparent. And then we tell you that this fund is actually inserted into a system in which there is a plurality of funds, some of which – and you have recognized me, that is, that it is being evaluated –... some of which have expiry dates, some of which are redundant among themselves, some of which are not working all the good that should work despite having a good objective, and then there are a number of structural problems, for example, in my view, in venture capital funds, about the duration of investments or, when it is uninvested, where that uninvested capital is going to end. Because paradoxical situations have occurred, such as that we have helped with public money to set up companies, public venture capital funds come out, because they are so defined, to leave companies in a temporary period, but these shares are returned to the market. And, indeed, when a company has been launched and that company starts to be profitable, the risk disappears and the benefit comes: the public has put the risk, and the benefits come to the private hands. And, therefore, it might also be necessary to transfer those funds from companies that are carried out with public risk capital to other public funds with more permanence. We think, therefore, that there is here a profound dispute and dispute, in truth, that we are obliged to continue by the press, and to say a few days after the contrary of the things which are said in this parliament. And we believe that it is necessary to be serious, that public opinion deserves seriousness, we are worthy of parliamentary groups, and this society deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u43	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, when you mentioned strategy, I think I've mentioned it before, but I'll confirm it. Our strategy is to have different instruments, based on the need of different instruments. And I think it's proven that loans have the capital. Eta aipatzen zenuen, heifer, venture capital, when there is risk is the venture capital, and when it disappears, because it has – and you recognize it – a time of duration... It is that venture capital is called venture capital because there is risk; otherwise, it would not be called that. It would be something else. In any case, if I want to clarify, and starting at the end, that when there is a disinvestment in venture capital funds that are managed from the Venture Capital Management Company precisely if there is a characteristic is that, what I was saying, they are a revolving fund. That is, that I can invest today in a company A, finished the investment time recover that money, in addition to according to the conditions under which it entered (because they fix at the beginning, as you well know), and when you recover that money returns to the same fund, if you still have investment period, and you continue to invest. In the event that the investment period has ended, what is decided is, with the money that exists in that fund – and we have traditionally done so – to form another fund with the same characteristics, and that it can continue to function. This has been the case when the Basque Fund was set up, and when we have had resources we have also given it more resources to continue to function. But it works this way in the case of public venture capital, but also in Ekarpen, where we are participating, and where the disinvestments that are made, according to the conditions that have been put from the beginning, return to the Ekarpen fund. Therefore, there is no risk of loss of that capital there. When we were talking about the typology of funds, he was telling me if it's a sovereign fund. I'd love to have a sovereign fund, and I don't look almost catharic at the bottom, but I look like Norwegian at the bottom. It is a fund from a country that we would like to look like in many cases, and also in this. But Norway has some natural resources that unfortunately we don't have, or in some case seems to have but I don't know if we're going to be able to pull out. In the future we may be able to pull them out and have that sovereign fund; today it is impossible. With the public money at the Norwegian sovereign fund level, I'm afraid we won't be able to have it. Therefore, we are going, yes or yes, to a public-private fund, which is also defined this way in the Industrialization Plan and is so in the government plan. And I've told you what kind of actions you're going to perform, and I think I've told you clearly, but I repeat it. Two types of shares, and that's what the fund is going to define: long-term actions, actions where the important thing is not that financial profitability but permanence; but other actions with financial profitability. Nor will it deny me that if we want to attract the EPSVs, for example, where the workers have a share, we must guarantee them a return, because precisely the workers require that return so that their EPSV does not lose purchasing power. Then the fund has to have that double characteristic, yes or yes, for the people and for the actions that are going to take place. According to each of them it will be taken into consideration if it is one or another. And there is no fund in the private-character world – and also EPSVs do – in which local investments and international investments are not to be used, with a local majority obviously, but they cannot be prohibited – because the NCMC also says so –..., international investments cannot be prohibited, because they guarantee that return that an EPSV, when it wants to act or when it wants to participate in an investment, is of course essential. Therefore, if we consider these two actions, it is those that will guide the background and those that will allow us to define who our fellow travellers are, with whom we are talking and from whom we are getting some already positive answers. But, of course, what I don't usually like is selling anything that I still don't have security. When you have security, you have no doubt that both Mr Azpiazu and I will tell you in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpodate, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team, made to the head of economics and sub-guldens, about the automobiles of intelligent gastian electric bus." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u45	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. President. Counselor, they've forgotten the garages. You have supported from your department an interesting project in Vitoria-Gasteiz, which is the smart electric bus; an innovative project, necessary to deal with climate change, to electrify public transport in Vitoria-Gasteiz; a project that would allow us to develop our own technology and an industrial infrastructure associated with it, and you have nowhere to save the vehicles. They have forgotten to include, in the agreement they have signed, the garages. And this happens because rushes are bad counselors. Wanting to do a project to be able to cut the tape in election year makes one run and leave things behind. Wanting to support a mayor like Vitoria, who the same media say is the weakest mayor the PNV has right now, carries that. A mayor who is unable to fulfil his commitments, and who is also a specialist in these mobility issues, to get angry at issues that should be of consensus, and yet he turns them into issues of electoral struggle. There is nothing more to see how it has managed the issue of enlargement south of the tram, and how this issue is starting to get angry also in the municipal policy of Vitoria-Gasteiz. And in the case of the electric bus, you've been running to finish the infrastructure project and that's why ETS has a $40,000 game in this year's budget. But, you know, you know, there's no electric bus without a car station, no electric gastian transport electrocution and electrocution will be cancelled. What do we have now? What is the situation we have? We have a town hall, that of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which has some current coaches that are obsolete, some coaches that generate continuous complaints from the staff of Tuvisa for dirt, for disorder, for buses that occupy the transit areas of people, etc. Tuvisa, who is responsible for these coaches, can't face the construction of other coaches right now. Tuvisa has a deficit of EUR 13 million per year, and this brings us to an issue that I defended in this Parliament a few months ago, which is the financing of municipal public transport. There were several groups, including his own, who opposed a non-legislative proposal to seek tools for financing municipal public transport, because many municipalities do not have the capacity to finance the deficit that all municipal public transport has, and Vitoria-Gasteiz is one of them. Because Vitoria-Gasteiz, like other municipalities, has a deficit, and therefore, because of the restrictions that Europe or the central government has on us, it cannot make investments beyond what it has allowed. However, Vitoria-Gasteiz does have a new municipal garage project, a project in the old municipal nurseries, but it costs them 10 million euros, and they cannot be in debt at 10 million euros, because the debt limit in Vitoria-Gasteiz for the whole year, due to these restrictions that come from the central government, is exactly 10 million euros. Therefore, these new municipal garages that Vitoria needs, yes or yes, will not be able to build without external support. And we have at the same time a project that is that of the intelligent electric bus, whose infrastructure and vehicles cost 42 million euros. You have made a majority commitment through an agreement that we, our group, have concluded. An agreement that has included the Basque Government, has included the Álava Foral Diputación and has included the municipality as a minority partner. This EIB project only covers infrastructure and vehicles, but these vehicles are 13 units between 12 and 18 metres in length that have to be stored somewhere. You can't face this project half-way, you can't face half-way. We must look for a place not only where to store those vehicles, but where to set up the installation of batteries to allow these vehicles to be recharged. And you've made an agreement that doesn't include those garages. Where are they going to keep the vehicles? Where are they going to keep the vehicles? That's the point. So, we have on the one hand a city council that needs a few coaches and can't afford them, and on the other hand we have an inter-institutional joint project that is going to start a bus that has no coaches to save. The synergy is obvious: it is necessary to put into that agreement or to establish some way for the partners who are going to develop the smart electric bus to help to afford these coaches. Because, otherwise, we'll have a good project that stays half, and we'll have a city that needs garages that won't have that result. Therefore, the object of this inquiry is to know what you are going to do. Because the convention is in Parliament right now, and our group obviously has no legal attachment to the content of that convention (the time limit for allegations or amendments, or for opposition, ends next day 8), but where we do have opposition is in the content of the convention. So what we need is, for its part, some kind of response, because as the majority partner of this project it obviously has a responsibility, which is not unique, but which obviously calls them directly today. And that's how we're going to do it so that this project, as I say, doesn't stand in the middle and give a complete answer to the mobility problem that Vitoria-Gasteiz has right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u47	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, as you said, the agreement adopted by the Governing Council on 19 December is in this Parliament. We approved it in collaboration with the Foral Diputación de Álava and the City Council of Gasteiz. Now, an agreement and a project made in haste... No, no, no, no, no. No, because precisely someone could accuse us of the opposite, because in the past legislature, Councilwoman Oregi was working on this project. Then we've been working for over two and a half years, trying to best manage the definition of what the smart electric bus in Gasteiz is going to be. Prisons, none. We've worked it out in great detail, and someone, I insist, could even accuse me otherwise. The commitment of all the institutions to this project, after having done an in-depth analysis of it, amounts to 42.850.00 euros, as you well know, including VAT; with a financial commitment that starts in 2017 for the Basque government – not so for the parliament and the city council – and ends in 2019, where we make a distribution exactly as we do in the management and construction of the tram, that is to say a 65-35 (65% the Basque government), besides that we have worked in the preparation of the project, we have collaborated technically throughout the bidding process, and we will continue to collaborate with the city council in the execution of the implementation contract from our own budgets. That's why you might see some games in ETS, since we collaborate in all those performances. And the remaining 35% finance it between the Foral de Álava and the City Council of Gasteiz in equal shares. Furthermore, I would like to point out, because there have also been some doubts, that the project involves the implementation of 100 per cent electric buses. In no case are hybrids or any other actions, but a hundred percent electric, and the project collects – and I think I answered it in detail when I asked Mrs Larrion, in December I think I remember that it was –..., collects civil works, obviously collects vehicles, electrification, collects automation, collects an intelligent management system, and collects a recharge system. A charging system that has a double side, and I also think I've told it in detail. An opportunity load infrastructure in two stops, where it will be recharging along the route; a quick recharge with inverted pantograph, with all the resources that I will not detail at this time, which are perfectly defined already. And in addition, an electrical ignition system to make slow charging in garages. It's perfectly defined what it's going to need, what it's going to be, what kind of electrical cells it's carrying, what kind of lines, what power, what the connectors are going to be... I specifically tell you, each of the connectors will have capacity for four vehicles. However, it should also be noted in this chapter that these recharges, both slow and fast, are going to amount to EUR 3.5 million, and that it is obviously going to collect the extension to the garages, wherever they are (because they exist, and you recognise it), of the necessary electrical damage and of the whole installation. Then we have not forgotten the garages, since the garages exist, they are owned by Tuvisa, and what we are going to do is introduce some electric vehicles in addition to those that already exist, and the project is going to take care of that management of those electric vehicles, which is the novelty that is introduced. In addition, there was also a debate throughout the last legislature who would be in charge of the management of these electric buses; whether the start-up was carried out by a system or by financing through a convention, such as the tram, who would manage that, whether it would be Tuvisa or a system more associated with Government. And it was decided, it was remembered that, since it was a bus, it would take care of Tuvisa directly. We are in charge of helping, collaborating in the implementation, but, once the project has been completed, the management is absolutely in charge of Tuvisa. And the buses will be located in the bus stations of Tuvisa, where they will share location with the rest of the buses that are not electric; which will be hybrid, will be of gas or will be of diesel, according to the decision of the city council that wants to modify that fleet of buses. Of course, at the moment we consider – and in that I disagree with what you say – that municipal public transport is precisely municipal, and therefore the charge has to be municipal, that it is responsible for putting in place the transport it considers and for taking care of the deficit that always occurs in public transport – as you also know – of that deficit that occurs. Because if we were to put into operation all kinds of actions in municipal transport, of course, it would be a failure, because, as you know, we have a lot of municipalities in the three historical territories, and in many of them there is a municipal public transport. I therefore believe that we need to reflect on how to manage it as a whole, and I hope that it will also be covered by the sustainable mobility law that we will bring to this House, but we will not interfere with other competences. You will surely tell me that the smart electric bus itself is not the responsibility of the Basque Government, and it is true, but since it is an innovative initiative, in which we introduced electrification into transport, we felt that we could take advantage of this innovation, that innovation and that electrification in order to be able to collaborate in it. But it is, of course, because it is a somewhat different performance and it can be non-substitutive, but it is complementary to a transport such as that of the tram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u49	It is logical, Madam Councilwoman, that you are obviously not going to get involved in all matters of municipal transport. You said it's a not ending, and you're absolutely right. That is why we proposed several months ago to pay attention to the financing of municipal transport, precisely in order to prevent the Government from having to put out the fires of all the municipalities. And I encourage you to address this issue in the next sustainable mobility law, because it is clear that you cannot tackle all transport, and you have transport in which you are competent and others do not. And obviously on the smart electric bus they are not competent, you know that too. It's the municipality's jurisdiction. But we go back to the same thing: the city council has no money. And this is an interesting project; this is an interesting project, which when you presented it in committee our group publicly supported, and I have done it again today. But, of course, it says, "We're not going to interfere with other competencies." But if you interfere, as it is in this case, do it right, don't do it half way. That's the point. You will finance 65% of this project. Right, I congratulate you and the Government on taking that necessary step. But do it completely. Don't tell me you're going to put the electric buses in a garage that's already saturated, because then we start with the hopper. Because it is rumored, it is suspected, that Mr. Urtaran is looking around for a camp to leave the old buses of Tuvisa that will not fit you when you put thirteen units of eighteen meters with their corresponding batteries. There's no room in the current garages. And there's already a project. There is a garage project in the old municipal nurseries, which the city council is denying right now but it is that I have up to the constructive plane, and this project exists. What doesn't have the city council is not the project; what doesn't have the city council is the money, and if it doesn't have the money, what we can't do is make a smart electric bus so the buses stay on the street. Either the electric buses are left, or the rest of Vitoria's bus fleet is left. And I understand that this is a problem that is not exclusive to the city council, precisely because you have come to this issue, and the only thing we can ask you who we are in politics is to make good management of public money. Because, if you now put the batteries and charging installation in the old garages, sooner rather than later, when the new garages are built we will have to pay again for putting that installation in the new garages. I mean, we're gonna pay twice for the vehicle charging facility, and that's a bad management of public money, and that's a bad idea. What needs to be done, what we understand in our group what needs to be done is to go a little slower, if any, because it is justified to go a little slower to tackle all the problems together, and that if we spend the money we spend it only once and not twice. And that's what we're suing him for. I understand that this is not an exclusive request to the Basque Government, but my obligation is to get it to you, as a majority partner, let us say, of this project and of this agreement that you are pushing. And what we would like is to have an appropriate answer, because it is obviously not in our heart to bring this to the debate and political refrigeration, but, as I say, to make it clear that there is a problem here that needs to be resolved. And we understand that the area in which the solution has to be given is the scope of this agreement on the construction of this electric bus. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u51	Mila esker, andrea president. Well, first of all, I haven't done it before, and I do want to thank you and your group that have actually always been in favour of this project. And I think it's a novel element that can also give us a lot of experience for other future performances. I am therefore grateful for the support for the project. We were talking about the law on sustainable mobility, and indeed I believe that public transport needs to be well coordinated, we need to move towards a more electric, less polluting part, and we need to analyse the issue of financing and how we need to unify. Apart from everything, apart from sharing our responsibilities, how we have to make the citizen not feel that he is in one territory or another, but that he is within the autonomous community. I believe that we have great challenges in that law, and I hope to be able to work in this House. I was talking about the garage project, and the truth is that we have agreed with the city council, with the municipality, each of the parts of this project, which has been working on subprojects, both the works that will be done in civil works in the different fields and how to implement various actions. At no time has the issue of carmakers been raised, and I hope that, if this proves to be a difficulty, as you said, that we do not know because it has not been transmitted to us, we will first work in the city hall itself and we will do an analysis of what we want to do. This is not a project we want to impose, but quite the opposite. We want to work together. I think we have done so throughout this time of definition. And, I insist, we have not at any time been given the subject of coaches, except that obviously all electrification, all slow recharging, had to be introduced into those coaches in order to meet the needs of these electric vehicles. Just as it has been defined how many vehicles of eighteen metres and how many of fifteen are to be defined, in no case has the problem of coaches been put on the table. But, if there is, I understand that the city council is going to treat him, no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, written by the lawmen of the Oster CENTRRR of the CORRRRRRRA, to the head physician of Economics and Sub-Squacy, concerning the new lines of the railway network that are intended to be built in the Basque Country." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u53	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia chief, three in a row of interpelations will make you tired of all of us. It seems to us that the time has come to make a serious reflection about a high-speed train, because everything that remains to be seen is a fraud of this kind, that it is more and more difficult to seek a justification, and that you are making more and more rounds to reason this absurdity. On December 28 the Spanish Spanish Government predicted that the spaces on the Spanish network of Burgos-Gasage would not be for sale, and the merchandise would be carried away. Even the Urcullu himself, not in an ordinary tone, considered this news as innocent the next day, and it seems to me that these have been the most reasonable words of the project in recent years. But it seems to me that the real Innocent day arrived 10 days later, on January 9th, when the Spanish Ministry came to present two great-speed lines of war, to Iruña and Gasteize together with you, and said that the line between Burgos-Gaschei will not carry the war. He confirmed it. But it seems to me, perhaps, that it was not at that time, but that you would approve of the project. And I will explain, because, in the last few years, the observations and proposals you have made on this subject are some things that we agree with, which we agree. You said the German model is interesting to you, so do we. You said the speed of passengers isn't so important that we agreed to it, but that the transport of merchandise, of merchandise, of roads, I understand, should be carried into the train and electrified. We agree there, too. And we agree, of course, that the population of the nation is the capital of Iruña euskal, and that in this case it is important in the manner of a declaration of land. The problem is not whether or not to agree with this. The problem is that this scenario or these approaches are imaginary, they are out of reality, because the reality and objectives of Spanish high speed have nothing to do with those objectives. That is why my question today is what are the real reasons for leaping, encouraging, accompanying, promoting these projects that run counter to needs. And I'll explain myself. With regard to the German model, Germany has 18 kilometers of high speed per inhabitant; Spain has 79, the largest in the world. In Germany, emphasis has been placed on goods; in Spain, on travellers. In Spain a whole new high-speed infrastructure has been made, and in Germany the lines were modernised. In Spain the line is exclusive to high speed, and in Germany there is interoperability, i.e. the network is integrated, shared with conventional services, so that there is a lower cost of infrastructure, in exchange for coordination costs and at less speed. What Spain has done is to invest more than EUR 50 billion in the AVE network, and what it has done is to spend more than 90 % of the money on high-speed railway infrastructure, leaving the rest helpless. And the Spanish construction key is a hell of a cocktail between the building lobby and the trend towards illegal financing through infrastructure. Second point. Do these projects offer that speed is not the key, and yes the goods? Let's talk about speed. He doesn't offer it. In fact, the Government of Spain managed – and the minister said – an option, which was to make the connection between Iruña and Gasteiz where the roads already exist. This is the network we have today; this is the AVE network proposed by the Government of Spain for Euskal Herria, and this is the image if we overlap the two. Okay? [[Show some images]] So, what we see is that where there was already a line is going to go a new platform. That's what we see. And the cause of a new platform is not that the goods could not go improving the way that exists, but that travellers could not exceed 160 kilometers/hour. And for the Government of Spain it was essential that they were at 250 kilometers per hour, which is what this new platform is going to be built for. And the difference between Gasteiz-Iruña at 160 or 250 kilometers per hour is eight minutes. That is, for a difference of eight minutes, if you finally choose Gasteiz's instead of improving what there was, you will spend 700 million euros just doing the platform, and we will already go to the more than 2 billion euros if in the end you decide the option of the connection with the branch by Ezkio, with the Basque Y. So (we go on), does the Spanish high-speed network guarantee that there is a change in mode in the transport of goods, that is, gradually taking them off the road to get them on the trains? No, no, And this is the key to the whole question. We agree, and I have said so, and all the energy transition studies speak, there is a general agreement: we have to change mode. However, after 50 billion euros of investment in Spain and after twenty-five years since the first high-speed train was inaugurated, what has happened is a negative differential in Spain. More than 20 years ago 10% of goods were transported by train, and now 5% were transported. Thus the investment in AVE is directly proportional to the decrease of the goods by rail. And here we are at 2%, even worse. That is, the goods on the Spanish high-speed network are neither expected nor expected. And you're not just talking about goods traveling, arriving in Madrid, and traveling across the peninsula. In what ways? In what ways, even if they fixed the Burgos stretch with a third rail? From there, how's it going? What happens, that for us to send those goods that we both want to send, or that we want to collect, it turns out that Spain is now going to modify its entire infrastructure, will turn it to the European width, so that we can get to Algeciras, to Cáceres, to Jaén, everywhere? That's unthinkable, it's unthinkable, and it's not at the table of any of the Ministers of Development, nor will it be. So, being that way, we can't understand how the Burgos and Gasteiz project can be good, which comes to confirm that there will be no goods on the high-speed platform. And worst of all, to justify this, you're not telling the truth. He's saying otherwise, it's going to be. I mean, 30 years after the whole project was designed, we don't even know how much it's gonna cost to get it started... Our calculation for the whole Euskal Herria is already going around (not building the platforms, but putting everything in motion)... , is rolling between 15,000 and 18 billion euros. You'll tell me if you have any other figures. We are talking about a truly barbaric figure. We don't know how much a ticket will cost, for example... The Castellón-Valencia line, newly inaugurated, in Talgo seven euros; in AVE, twenty-two euros. Let's see how you're going to compete with the six euros that cost a bus from Gasteiz to Bilbao, for example. We don't know when it's going to end, we don't know how much maintenance is going to cost, we don't know how long the journeys are going to last... Because you on the Euskalit page continue to say that between Gasteiz and Bilbao it will take twenty-eight minutes, when the Government of Spain is saying that it will last forty-three minutes. For forty-five minutes that it costs to drive, change the lead! And we don't know if one day you're going to be able to take any goods, beyond the chorizo bite someone's going to take, because you look at the prices of food in the AVE! As far as national construction is concerned, I think there is a confusion between territorial cohesion and the connection between capitals, which are two very different things. And something else must be taken into account: the Gasteiz-Burgos section is part of several axes. According to Madrid, it is the corridor Madrid-French border (this explains the information project); according to the trans-European network, it is part of the axis Madrid-Dax, and if we look at the European priority axes it is part of the axis Lisbon-Strasbourg. This shaft is getting one slap behind another. Lisbon has already given up building its TAV section, and the French infrastructure guidance committee yesterday said it recommends abandoning or postponing a very distant horizon (and the horizon is aimed at a 20-year horizon) the new Bordeaux-Dax high-speed line. I mean, France, which has over 60,000 passengers per kilometer built, has ruled out all this. I believe that there is national construction around the TAV, because it is clear that the European axis is not going to work, and this is the national construction. [[Show an image]] The national construction is this, Aznar said very clearly a long time ago: "We hope that through the high-speed train all the Spanish capitals will be connected to Madrid in less than four hours." Here you can go some national construction, and you're wrong that you're wrong, you're wrong that you're wrong. It's time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I'm really almost happy and thank you, because at last you came to AHT's debate, it's not "no" or "yes," but you're almost sudden, and I'm glad. And we also have a few agreements. He said we didn't think about it, well... This corridor, by the way, when you set the map, is called by a European as you please, but it's only a axis, and you put it on yourself. And Europe, in 1994, mentioned at a certain height of Esssen, who were those networks of European transitions, and one of them belonged to us, which passed through us, which is called "The Atlantic Ardatz." And then that can be connected one way or another. 1994. In 1997, he does an inspection and does his exam with Euscal Y Iruña. In 1998, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, 1997 and 1998. So I think there's some sort of thinking about it. The Ministry of Development's own Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan (the so-called PITVI) also includes in 2012 precisely that alternative that the Basque Government has put in place or has put on the table. That is to say, the plan of the Ministry of Development, which was introduced in 1998, reflects the plan of the Ministry of Development in 2012. If we refer to the high speed between Vitoria-Gasteiz and Burgos, in 1999 the ministry performs its first analyses, in 2002 it makes the first informative study, and approves it in December 2013. Bada denbora hausnarketa being bat Egyptian, nik uste dut, denbora badagoela, ez da presaka inbili garela. Therefore, I believe that, as you say in your inquiry, provektu berri horiek hain berriak ez dirudite: 1994tik hasi eta jarraitu dugu. Besides, I have something else to tell you. Exactly: In 1994, when Europe says it's a priority, and we... (Eussal's Y is only a part of that corridor, a part of the chain,) he mentioned that it was supposed to be running for 2010, we're 2017 and we're late, see if we can finish it for 2023. So I think "new project" means a lot. Both the Basque Government and the Ministry of Development, on the other hand, we have agreed what characteristics it will have. I will not refer to the Basque Y, which, as you well know, although you say it is not true, the Basque Y does have those characteristics of mixed traffic of travellers and goods, it does. And it also has the connection to Iruña and the Mediterranean, because it has been defined by both governments, by the Basque Government and by the Government of Navarra, and so it is collected. Therefore, in those sections it is clear that for the new platform... Because you have made a speech for a long time until you have reached the issue of width, saying that in Germany the existing network was improved. Of course, because they were already in international width! Sure! As France can do, on the other hand, it has renounced a new platform, not so the modification of the one that exists between Dax and Hendaya. Read me everything that this report has said, read it completely, not just part of it. But they can do it because they already have an international wide network. In the Spanish State there is no such thing, and the only way to make an international width is to make a new platform, which can only be made of travellers or travellers and goods, obviously. The whole Basque Y is travelers and goods (mixed width), and so is also the connection with Navarra. In the case of Vitoria-Burgos, what happened? Indeed, it is going to develop a new platform that will only be used for travellers, and that is where both the lehendakari and the Basque Government said "It is not enough for us; we need the standard width to continue towards the south". And given the impossibility – as the project was advanced – of including the goods in that new platform – and you were in the presentation and you heard it exactly as I did – the minister said that the goods, as he had agreed with the Basque Government and the Government of Castile-Leon, would go through a third thread in the standard width, which will be released..., by the conventional network, introducing a third thread to have a standard width or international width and to be able to carry the goods there. And you were there and you heard it exactly the same as me. Therefore, the goods have a continuity, not by the new platform, but by the introduction of that third thread. That it's going to be a lot of work and a lot of money and a lot of time? We are aware of this, but for us it is a priority that the goods not only connect, that they come from Europe, and that they come, by the way, on the railway highway that will be set up between Lille and Gasteiz, but that we can feed Gasteiz and that we can continue both towards the cantabrian axis and towards Lisbon, towards the Meseta and towards the Mediterranean corridor. At the moment you know that in the connection to Iruña – because you also commented on it and you were there – we are in the information study in public hearing and period of allegations with the two alternatives envisaged, that of Gasteiz and that of Ezkio. They don't exactly go over, although in fat stroke, as you have presented it, they actually go over, but it isn't, and you can't make a modification alone, because you have to introduce a different width and a different telecommunications and a different automation, and you know it as well. Therefore, it is necessary not only to make a small modification, but to make a complete modification of that path, and a new path must be introduced. And the alternatives that exist at this time are by Gasteiz or by Ezkio, and each has its own difficulties. Each has its difficulties in time, in functionality, in environmental impact, in economic impact, in construction problems. Well, at this time in informative study and with all the allegations and environmental impact study. And the important thing, the connection, that we can go through Iruña to Castejon and to the Mediterranean corridor; that really that European map that you have put is a reality as soon as possible, and that we can take travelers and goods around. The connections we consider, of course, to vertebrate territory, because we have other types of railway networks as well. Because you play to forget that right now we have to work on transport and mobility in capitals, between capitals, in what is called regional, and long-distance, and for all of them we have different modes of transport, there is not only one that responds. We don't go by bus everywhere, even if we can do it; we don't go on a high-speed train everywhere, even if we could do it, and we don't go on a regional everywhere, even if we could do it. For each aspect a mode of transport is used, both for passengers and for goods. And, also, I am not going to escape from another very specific area. And you told me what services, at what price. That's exactly what we're working on! And you made the reference to a specific price. Look at Madrid-Toledo, because it can also be done, and it can also be used and it is much cheaper, and there are bonds. And at the moment what is working with the ministry and is working at the territorial level is so that Euskotren himself can be an operator who gives the services, for example what we call intercity, between cities here in the Autonomous Community. Is that possible? Yeah. If we put it in prices and in suitable ways of working, yes. And if you look at the German model and stop listening to Mr Urruzuno, who seems to come out and answer, if you look at the German model, indeed Germany is also introducing high speed for exclusive travellers. And if not, look at the Cologne-Würzburg line, which is quite old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. To answer, Mr. Otero, turn number two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u57	Well, it's not gonna give me time to everything there is. It is a long debate, and obviously on Tuesday we have another round, so we will continue with the issue and I think it will be a big round. We were talking about that sometimes, when it says "We're working on it, we're working hard on it," it's just when it's not being done. But, well, that's it. In case you're curious, I'll tell you. Several things. One, the continuity of the goods. I insist – and this has not denied me, with which I understand that it can be true – that Spain is not guaranteeing the continuity of the goods. That's not in any plan, it's not written. You right now, in fact, even Burgos, what you have is a press release basically, which is what the Ministry of Development has taken out, and some nice words. But if one looks at what really is, what is being processed, that is, the information memory that is in period of allegations, it says several things. It says: "At present there is a railway line Madrid-Hendaya that connects the cities of Burgos and Vitoria, and between the two cities there is the railway knot of Miranda de Ebro. This current line will be kept in operation as a conventional network in Iberian width for the traffic of goods". I repeat: "It will be kept in operation as a conventional network in Iberian width for the traffic of goods". And he continues to speak and says: "In the future scenario is contemplated the creation of the new international wide double track corridor indicated previously for exclusive traffic of travelers, maintaining the current route Burgos-Vitoria of conventional width for the exploitation of goods". That's what we actually have. And you, in the face of this reality, what you did on 9 January, together with the Minister of Development, is to sell us the opposite. And that's, at least, not telling the truth. I'd say something else, but, at least, it's not telling the truth. That's what we have. And it follows the story, because the environmental impact study says: "For functional reasons, the implementation of the necessary project is considered important in order to thus independent the long-distance passenger traffic with respect to the traffic of goods, which would run through the Madrid-Hendaya line, increasing the capacity of the current line". "The capacity of the current line", which is in Iberian width and not in international width. And you said that to make international width you have to make a new platform. If we have to make a new platform and the goods have to go for international width, how is it that you are giving for good that promise, that is nothing else that is that there will be traffic of goods between Burgos and Vitoria by the existing line? I don't think it fits anywhere. And, by the way, since you mentioned the European axes, I will teach history again, because, if you look at it – and I do not want to dwell too much on it either – there is an axis that is the Atlantic and another axis that is the Mediterranean, and the connection of Basque Y to the Mediterranean axis is not a European priority objective. (Irudi bat erakutsi du) I say because it is also important to know. The point, for me, is that I believe that you have not put here any reason to justify that, instead of making the new high-speed platforms, it does not lead us to advocate improving the existing network, to make it also compatible with the European highway width, and to sacrifice a part of the speed that promises the high-speed Spanish, with which we would save a good part..., that does not pay Spain, let us not forget, that with that we also tend to cheat: that infrastructures are paid by quota, with which we pay them among all. If we are going to spend more than 10 billion euros on the entire AVE network at the end – I have said it over and over – then we have the calculation that for each Basque family some 15,000 euros of investment is coming out. Not that they come out of the pocket directly, but the investment for each Basque family is 15,000 euros. And that's the way it is. And the infrastructure is paid for by coupon. And I believe that here what is happening is something else: that I do believe you when you tell me that you are interested in the German model, I do believe you, but something else is happening, that is that there is no German model, there is the Spanish model. But there is one thing that is worse, which is in the end the same attitude of the PNV all the time with respect to the State: how can we not recognize that we are in a place of subordination and that it is Spain that decides the infrastructures and what money will put us, instead of joining us to say "These are the ones we want and these are the ones we do not want", you say "Ah, no. We get them, and we're going to be the ones who are going to bring another new line of TAV, and another one I don't know what, and another one I don't know how many." Instead of it being noticed and evidenced that we are not deciding. Because I know that to you the project that has been presented by the State, the Ministry of Development, does not grace you, and that innocent, which became ten days into an acceptance, what it means is precisely that transit of, instead of accepting that it is an imposition, to say that "we are the ones who bring it". I believe that this is the reason to be accepting this downside, which already has biblical dimensions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It is true that networks of general interest, ports of general interest, airports of general interest, are the competence of the State. Evidently. However, I was telling you, since 1997 there has been the Basque Government... , who was in the Basque Government in 1997 was defining how the Basque Y was going to be, how the connection was going to be, how the traffic in goods and travellers was going to be, the technical aspects, which had to be fought a lot with the Ministry of Development... That was decided here, and you can't deny it to me. That there's a connection to... Because you have forgotten, because there is a connection to Navarre, and look at it on the map that is hung in the European Union and on the map that has hung also the Ministry of Development: the connection of Iruña with the Basque Y is through Ezkio. I'm driving you to look at him, because he is. And that is defined by the Basque Government and accepted by the Spanish State, and so it collects it. I'm also going to tell you something curious, maybe you don't know. At this point up to Burgos we will be able to go – and then I enter into that aspect – on an international scale. And it is true that we will have Burgos-Madrid, because Madrid-Sevilla, even though it is not being used, is prepared to be mixed traffic. He's ready. Another thing is that it is not being used, because the Ministry of Development is not interested in using it or because at the moment there is no freight operator who is interested in using it, but is prepared. Then you were talking to me about why we accepted the Burgos-Vitoria solution. It is true that I would have liked much more, that I would have preferred that in Burgos-Vitoria the new platform would have been of mixed traffic like the Basque Y, it is true. However, the introduction of a third thread also (i.e. that conventional network will be able to be used in both conventional and international width) seems to me to be an acceptable solution. Isn't it ideal? No, no, But it's acceptable. We'll have reached Burgos, and we'll still have Burgos-Madrid. I have told him from the beginning, and we must work so that Burgos-Madrid can also be carried out, because from Madrid to Seville it is already true. Then what we are interested in as a government – and I think you also share – is that the goods can be carried in metric width and carried by Euskotren throughout the cantabrian cornice; that they be carried in Iberian width, because it will not disappear from day to day and we will still have to carry the goods, some, in Iberian width, and that it is also possible to carry them in international width. The three are going to be valid and the three are going to complete the rail transport infrastructure network for goods that we are interested in having. That is the reality that we are going to live for many years. We will not replace from one day to another all the Iberian width by international width, but we will take steps to make it possible, and in the meantime to use the infrastructures we have in the best possible way for travelers and for goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Knörre, made to the head physician of Eplegus and Polic Society, to assist the Basque families." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. We've already filed an interpology to talk about family police. It's not the first time, and this clearly indicates that family policy for the Popular Party is a priority. It's the third appeal. We've encouraged three interpelations, and two motives have also been discussed in this legislature. We asked the Government whether it would continue with the reductions, considering that the Government, in the first days and when it was completed, had not been able to explain certain things about this subject. We put forward a first question concerning the cuts in family aid, to see whether it was the Government's intention to continue with the cuts in aid to Basque families, bearing in mind that Mr Urkullu's Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, which criticized the cuts in the amounts of the 7 % birth aid, was at present doing nothing to alleviate or remedy these cuts, and we therefore put forward an inquiry in that regard. As you will recall, when we started the last legislature we had no news of the Fourth Family Plan. The III Family Plan ended in 2015, we had no news of the evaluation of the III Family Plan, we had no news of a strategy for childhood and adolescence... , for children and the family, better said, moreover committed by the lehendakari himself in the general policy plenary of 2015. At this meeting the President mentioned that this strategy would arrive as soon as possible, and we had not heard of it. This was 2015. We have to say that following this first inquiry to which he referred, which was conducted in February 2017, we placed duties on the Government, and the evaluation of the III Family Plan arrived. But it was also necessary to reach Parliament and to be approved within the relevant institutional bodies, and in particular in the Basque Family Council, the family strategy, because from the family strategy emanates the Family Plan, the Fourth Family Plan, which, as I say, the previous one ended in force in 2015. We therefore again presented an inquiry as to whether it was the intention of this Government to give a strong impetus to family policies. And we asked this government, what were their intentions to protect their families, what policy would set them in motion. And, well, we also had the opportunity to debate a motion calling on the government to forward the strategy, also to draw up the family plan, and also to increase aid. It is a government commitment to increase aid to families with children by 50%, gradually extending aid for the second child from two to three years, but we do have to say that this objective and this commitment are coming very late, because it was already a commitment and it was a target planned for 2014, as specifically envisaged in the III Family Plan, which, as I say, ended in 2015. Well, the other day at last this government, more than two years late, approves the pact for the family and for children, signed between the Basque government, the deputies and Eudel, late. Bi urte bath beranduago etorri da, kontuan izanik lehendakariak esan zona bilkura orokor hartan: "alegatuko zela lehenbailehen". The lehendakari said in the general policy plenary that the family strategy would come soon. In the 2015 general policy plenary, and we have to say that this strategy has come more than two years late. But this is important, and this for us is a fact that was certainly not the desired one, because on the one hand, as the Family Plan emanates from that strategy, the plan is already very late, considering that the previous one ended in 2015. And on the other hand, because the councilman in the middle of the election campaign, about an act of positive parenting, I think I remember that it was in May (in Vitoria, that I remember), announced and committed a multiannual investment of 200 million euros to this strategy. Madam Counsellor, you will not miss that multi-annual investment, as long as we do not have a plan where these measures and specific proposals for support to families in the various areas are to be implemented, so we will not see that money. And that strategy with that commitment was announced by the lehendakari, I mean, I don't know if because we were in pre-election, in 2016. This interinstitutional plan faces two structural problems that this group has been putting on the table not only in this legislature, but for a long time now, and two very clear warning signs that we have in relation to the population in the Basque Country. On the one hand, the low birth rates and the obstacles that make it difficult for our young people to emancipate themselves and be able to start a family project, and have the number of children they want. On the other hand, to deal with the rate of child poverty, which is, as we all know, the greatest exponent of the economic difficulties that families may face. This is why we must give both answers to these two challenges in the institutional agreement signed. On the one hand, it is necessary that the lowness of birth and the difficulties in building the family project should be determined, and, on the other hand, the measures to prevent the poverty of the children should be directed. The engagements received in this treaty will be directed to different plans and actions, i.e. That's the family plan. That is why, through this interpellation, we want once again to highlight from the People's Group the inaction of this Government, the lack of ambition, the lack of leadership, the apathy in relation to family policies. I have pointed out the delay in the adoption of the necessary instruments to strengthen family policies with effective measures; delay in the adoption of the strategy (more than two years, since the lehendakari told us in 2015 that it would arrive soon); delay in the adoption of the III Family Plan, which ended in 2015 (this plan has to collect concrete measures in relation to economic aid, in relation to conciliation policies, in relation to the rationalization of hours, in relation to childcare, in relation to education...). Not to mention the delay in the adoption of the decree regulating birth aid and the possibility of extending that annuality in the aid to the second child, which is preventing for the time being, Madam Councillor, the implementation of the budget increase of the People's Party, which, among other things, was for this purpose. I imagine you will also give us news today in this rostrum about this, and I hope that this decree will be approved. Not to mention non-compliance with the objectives of the III Family Plan, within the deadlines set. It was said that up to three years would be reached in 2014, it has not been reached; up to four years in 2015, and in third and successive children, up to ten years of aid, in 2013 and 2014, and up to eleven years in 2015. None of these objectives have been met. That is why, as I said, we want to point out once again the lack of commitment by this Government to family policies, the failure to comply with the commitments made, and it is clear that we are late, that this Government is late. We need to address without delay everything that is related to the birth rate and the demographic challenge. We have one of the lowest birth rates: 1.39, far from that 2.1 necessary for generational replacement, far from the 2.75 we had on average in 1975. We have to deal with the ageing of the population. We were also recently aware of a report pointing out the difficulties we are going to face in terms of labour. That is why, Commissioner, we ask you what measures will be taken effectively, and what budgetary commitments, to boost family support policies in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u62	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u63	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. For, Mrs Garrido, so that we do not have leadership in promoting family policies, and that we have been able to unanimously in the Basque Family Council, as well as with the trade unions that are part of the Social Dialogue Bureau, the employers, the three outlaw institutions and Eudel, together with the Government, we have all agreed, together with the associations... I do not know how you will understand leadership; of course for us as a Government this is a priority, it is a strategic priority, and we are taking steps to consolidate it and we are putting all the initiatives we need to implement to achieve these objectives. That I have told you many times, Mrs Garrido, that we have to design them in the medium and long term, and that from night to morning we will not change. And that I believe that Euskadi – and it is fair to admit it – is one of the autonomous communities, if not the one that more, that more resources, that more aid and that more social policy in the field of the family carry out. And I'm going to try to explain it to you in my speech. First of all, and in relation to the family pact signed on 18 January (as I mentioned, with the support of the three members, of Eudel, previously approved by the Basque Family Council), it is a fact that has to be emphasized and that is a fact of particular importance. As you already know, the family and childhood pact is the essence of the basic document of the Basque investment strategy for families and children. The adoption of the pact unanimously at the Basque Family Council on 20 January was not the result of chance, and it has been the result of a shared and joint work between representatives of the various public administrations and the entities of the third sector working in the field of families and children, together with experts from the academic world, who were looking forward to and who recognized us and congratulated us for having been able to achieve a pact of these characteristics, which had been demanded on numerous occasions. To close this pact has been necessary multiple meetings, which begin last July and acquire greater intensity from the month of September of this same year, 2017. These contacts include at least two bilateral meetings with each of the departments of the Basque Government that are in one way or another directly aligned with our investment strategy in families and children, as well as several group meetings, and the call up to twice of the Basque Family Council. The document laying the foundations for the Basque investment strategy for families and children was also taken to the Social Dialogue Bureau and the Civil Dialogue Bureau. This document also had to be worked out with different departments of other institutions, such as the three outlaws and Eudel, and many joint working, pooling and consensus sessions were also needed to do so. The signing of the pact, following the elaboration of the investment strategy for the family and children, which has been shared with the administrations and entities of the third sector working in the field of the family, has been a second milestone in all this development. This process will culminate in the materialization of the pact and strategy, which will be reflected in the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children that we plan to complete by spring 2018. And we are talking about a country pact, and that undoubtedly involves teamwork, joint work, a work with consensus necessarily sought. And we do not stand there, because it is the intention of this department that the political parties of the parliamentary arch also join in this work and participate in this process. The Family Day, which will take place in Bilbao on the 9th of February, and the world cafe marked for the 14th of February at the Europa Palace in Vitoria-Gasteiz will serve to share, analyze and prioritize the actions that will be included in this new plan. I invite you to participate in both events so you can move forward together. Mrs Garrido, it is clear and it is the intention of this Government to take effective measures and sufficient budgetary commitments to promote family support policies in the Basque Country. Evidently. If not, why are we going to work on it so hard? We have no intention of wasting time and that this should be on wet paper. Proof of this, Mrs Garrido, is that we have not yet finished making this fourth plan, and we have already taken a step forward in that commitment. Already the lehendakari announced last January 18 a first measure, which is already underway and that we will apply throughout this same exercise. It will consist – as you well said and knew – of extending from two to three years the assistance that the second daughter or child currently receives from the families. These measures will lead to an additional increase of EUR 5 million per year and an increase of 50% in the support that families receive today for their second daughter and child. Of course we have a commitment, and we've demonstrated it. But this commitment is not new, Mrs Garrido; we have worked for a long time with the family and with childhood. In Euskadi there have been family policies for many years now, we are not in vain implementing the fourth family support plan, and I repeat that it will be public and that it will be next spring, but that means that we have already made three plans. When from the Department of Employment and Social Policy we have attended the inter-autonomous meeting convened by the State Government Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, we note that there are autonomous communities of the State that speak proudly of their first family plan, others do not even have it. We go for the fourth, with which that already implies an advanced path and a positive social consciousness. And those plans in Euskadi have been associated with concrete measures. These actions that we have developed so far in Euskadi, by contrast, place us as the autonomous community of the State that most economic items devotes to support for families. In the case of aid to families with children, it is the only aid from all over the State which has a subjective and universal right. This support for families has been maintained even in the context of a serious economic crisis, and yet – I have told you again, Mrs Garrido – our birth rates are at the lowest in the state, which means that a bet on financial support for families with children is not enough for Basque citizens to have the intention of having the children they want. Apart from these aids, we have been working and betting on policies that work positive parenting; family mediation has been promoted, which already in 2017 processed a total of 2,059 dossiers; we have promoted responsible reconciliation, using, among other tools, the page Concilia Plus, which last year received more than 44,000 visits; moreover, as you also know, we have put a pilot experience that has advised three companies per territory until we can introduce in their structures conciliation measures according to the measures and needs of each of the companies, and their results are good. The Lehendakari has also said this in the question he has answered: we cannot forget the great work and the great work carried out by the Haurreskolak Consortium, which reports to the Department of Education and which has become a fundamental and indispensable tool for the long-awaited and intended reconciliation of personal, family and work life. The new plan for families and children will focus on setting and establishing positive policies for the family and for children, and it will be essential to focus on five issues: Building on respect for family diversity, ensuring minimum resources for all families with children, and preventing child poverty. To this end, we are already working on the decree which will extend aid to the second daughter and son from two years to three years, thus increasing 50%. We hope that this year will be approved and that it will be retroactive to January 2018. We have also proposed in the amendment of income guarantee income that seeks to provide more support to families with children. Secondly, to insist on all policies that facilitate the processes of emancipation and transition to the adult age of our youth. Also develop positive parenting policies, consolidate the Basque Family Mediation Service, and implement co-responsible reconciliation policies that promote an organization of social time more appropriate to the needs of the family and promote equal opportunities between men and women. This implies facilitating women's access to quality and paid employment. And at this point we are also extending the pilot experience to thirty companies, ten per territory and different sectors of activity, seeking to implement conciliation measures. The new fourth plan, Mrs Garrido, will be planned by the end of spring, and will count on the collaboration and support of all associations, business organisations, trade unions, institutions..., and I also look forward to your collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u64	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I believe, Madam Counsellor, that the cooperation not of this Parliament, but of this group, you have it, and in addition to an effective way, by increasing specific items in relation to birth and conciliation aid. What is needed is that, once the budgets are approved, and the amounts initially planned are increased thanks to the amendments of the People's Party, then you speed up all the necessary procedures for these increases in aid, in this case that annuality to the second children, which, as I say, is something that was already foreseen in the III Family Plan for 2014. Therefore, counselor, let me tell you, and let me tell this government, that the commitments that the government itself acquires in its own plans, or when the lehendakari tells us that the strategy will arrive soon, and we were in 2015 and arrive in 2018, or when they tell us in 2016, in the middle of the election campaign, that there will be a multiannual investment of 200 million euros linked to a strategy that comes two years later than expected, so that all those commitments of this government will put them quite in question. What you have to do is to deal decisively, with effective, clear measures, and with budgetary commitments also in the budgets, with all the measures that are necessary to deal with birth rates. You were telling us, between 2016 and 2025 the decrease is going to be 22%. We have recently known some diagnoses and estimates of important consultants, from Confebask..., who tell us that we have a significant ageing population, the aging rate of the population doubles the rate or rate of youth, and that in the next ten years we will have a deficit of 100,000 workers, counselor. These are not issues that are addressed in a slow way, with a measure here, with a measure there... No, no! Here what we need is, a long time ago... And I value the consensus of the strategy, but you had to have exercised that leadership a long time ago. You know, because the plans have an effective period, that the III Family Support Plan culminated in 2015. The adoption of the strategy and that pact had to have started long before, and it had to have materialized, and we had to have seen that picture the other day, between all the deputies and the lehendakari, which we saw in the newspapers (the three deputies general, the lehendakari), long before we had to have taken that picture. And more so when the Family Plan, the fourth plan, from which the concrete measures derive, with budgetary commitments that then have to be collected in the budgets, we still do not have it, and derives from that strategy. You told me here today: the plan will arrive in the spring. Well, I'm going to do a good-faith exercise and I'm going to believe it's coming in the spring of 2018, but you'll recognize that it's late, it's coming too late, when the previous one ended in 2015. You'll recognize me you're too late, counselor. You will recognize that the provisions of the III Family Plan themselves have not been fulfilled. You will recognize me, Madam Counsellor, that, to this day, specific issues, which have to be carried out through the implementation of budget items that need the approval of decrees, or the amendment and approval of new decrees, are not being done because of the lack of diligence of this Government. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, what I am asking of you is greater leadership, greater ambition, greater diligence, more work, and, of course, if this is the people's government, which once and for all puts as an absolute priority policies that are fundamental to the people living in Euskadi, and to face the challenge of the low birth rate that we have, the demographic challenge that we have, the challenge of the ageing of the population... Because they're problems that's there. They're not problems we're going to have. They're problems that are there. What we are going to have is a significant lack of labour, if no action is taken now. And we are late, Madam Counsellor, in relation to all the issues that this group is raising to you on the table through numerous initiatives, with concrete proposals, with major budget increases. That we've increased birth support by two years six and a half million! That we already know it's not the only thing, it's not the only thing, but, look, the Ararteko report of 2014 said that family investments in the Basque Country are insufficient. Ararteko's 2014 report. Other issues, too, but this one did say it was insufficient. So, counselor, put the batteries on at once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u67	Sometimes when I hear you, Members of Parliament, Mrs Garrido, I seem to live in a country that is bankrupt, that everything is catastrophic, that everything is wrong, that it is sad, that it is almost better to leave here, and, man, I honestly believe that it is not true, that it does not obey the truth. You just told me catastrophe, that we are in a situation almost in the UVI, that Euskadi is going to disappear because we have a birth problem... So like the rest of the developed countries of the Western world! And that's where we're at. We're working. We'll lead. There's a lack of diligence... Man, you can charge me with a lot of things, but you can't charge me with lack of work and diligence. Because I think we have expedited the processing of aid; we have strengthened the resources we have to get aid to all the people who need it, and you know it; we have been working on the new decree, and you know how long it takes here, in this house, to process a new decree. The next is a question as to why we have taken a long time to process a youth law. Well, it's that the legal certainty we're bound to, so that our law and our decrees have all the guarantees, so it makes the deadlines a little longer. But that we have been appointed for a year (I was appointed in November 2016), and I think that shortly we will have this decree that will make it easier for people to have that 50% increase in aid. So, Mrs. Garrido, listen to me for other things, but not for lack of diligence. The new family plan seeks above all to invest in childhood and youth, because it is fair, because it is profitable and benefits the whole of society, and we all know that. This plan will try to break with the intergenerational transmission of inequalities, enshrining the principle of equal opportunities and social mobility. It is also an investment in young people, by demography and by the future of the country. Not only do we have to make birth policies; we have to make a number of other issues. One of them will be birth, but there are a number of other issues that have to do with youth, with employment, with housing, so that they have those opportunities to be able to form families or to have the number of children they want. We saw it a few days ago in the citizen dialogue that we shared with the European Commission and the Basque Government in Bilbao: Europe is not only an economic unit or market; Europe is a union of states and countries in which the person, social justice, solidarity, sustainability and respect are the main social values. And that is why the family and childhood, together with our youth, play a fundamental role, as we have been defining for years already in Euskadi. All this on the basis of recognizing the importance of families as the core of society, as the core of the human relationship, of social, affective and community education. And I believe, without any blush, that on this ground Euskadi is taking great steps, as we are recognized outside. The important thing is that we all work for it. Mrs. Garrido, the Pact for the Family and Children enjoys broad institutional and social support. The challenge now is to take effective measures and sufficient budgetary commitments to advance policies to support families. Support for the family and children is a priority for the country, for the Government, as is happening in other regions of Europe, and that is why we need to get the maximum support. Mr Macarrón (I don't know if you know him), Director-General of the Foundation for Demographic Renaissance, who participated, at the request of his group, in the Group of the People's Party, in the Special Commission on Demographic Development in Spain, in the Senate, and who said that this matter in particular, either is left out of party politics, or will not be resolved. And I agree with this statement made by this person. We must pamper young people, invest in them, so that there can be an increase in birth, for the future of the country. We have all made a shared diagnosis, a fundamental starting point for addressing the solution of the new realities that we face in the medium and long term. We have clear objectives that we want to achieve, defined in the pact; we must now establish a clear and effective route that will guide us, apart from political and economic situations. We face a priority demographic challenge for this Government. We must make Basque society aware that the solution to this challenge can not only come from politics, but also from civil society. Secondly, I believe that we must work rigorously, without partyism, because if we do not, we run the risk of providing easy but not effective solutions. Mrs Garrido, of course, it is the intention of this Government to take effective measures and sufficient budgetary commitments to boost family support policies in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Jule Bollain Urbieta, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Eplegus and Polynic Society, concerning the law of youth." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mrs Artolazabal, you said the question was why it took so long. It's not like that, it's not the question. But there is no mistake either, because this does not come from March 2017. You see, on the 13th of November, 2013, another proposal was disputed, as it were, to solve the affairs of the youth, and a moderate correction was approved, where the third was held. Youthdi to continue with the plan, and you were asked to open a joint. At the end of the sentence, on the 29th of July, 2016, the results were published on the bulletin. And the former recommendation of the results of this power was to make the law of the Spanish euscal. In 2016 he was already in the bulletin. And he said exactly: "The Basque Government is urged to draw up the Basque Youth Law jointly among the various government departments that develop or should develop policies that affect this group. The drafting of this law must be subject to a process of participation in which citizens and citizens will be able to collaborate in their personal and collective capacities through the Euskadi Youth Council, and, of course, in collaboration with the different administrations." But already in 2016, against all logic, the Basque Government passed word: no case to the first and most important recommendation of the presentation. We're on. On 23 March, now in 2017, a compromise amendment was adopted in this Parliament at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, urging the Basque Government to draft a Basque youth law before the end of 2017. February 2018, and no trace of the law. The Basque Government speaks out and ignores the mandate of the Basque Parliament. So the question, Mrs Artolazabal, is why the Basque Government has not fulfilled the mandate of Parliament as regards drafting the Basque Youth Law before the end of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u71	Thank you, ma'am. The non-law proposal debated and adopted on 23 March 2017 urged the Government to draft a Basque youth law before the end of 2017. Already in that debate, the groups supporting the Basque Government abstained for two reasons. First, and as you know, there was no drafting and processing of this law on the legislative agenda of the current legislature. Secondly, it was impossible to meet the deadline of that non-law proposal, since the internal processing and the reports to be requested in order to draft a bill are extended over a period of more than one year. In addition, at my personal appearance in a parliamentary committee on 22 May, I explained how we were working on the draft law, and I reiterate that it was not feasible to meet that deadline requested by the initiative. There are many steps to be taken by the Basque Government department to draft such a law. The process of drafting a new law is divided into four phases. The first would be a pre-emptive phase, in which a draft and a public consultation need to be carried out. Secondly, a process must be initiated, and this phase consists of the signature of the order of procedure by the adviser, the order of approval prior to the written text, and also a legal report of the department. Another procedure for hearing and public information is required during the investigation phase, and the following mandatory reports are requested: Emakunde's report, the report of the Directorate for Linguistic Standardization, sectoral reports, the Commission of Local Governments, the Economic and Social Council, the report on economic and regulatory control and the Cojua's opinion. Finally, in the fourth phase, it is necessary to approve a brief memorandum on the procedure followed and the approval of the draft by the Governing Council. To carry out this whole process, Mr Bollain, at least ten months are necessary since a draft law is available. We are working on that draft law, and that is why it was impossible for us to comply with the non-law proposal you submitted. And we warned you, I told you it was impossible to meet the deadline that was being demanded of us. Although it was not on our calendar, our youth is a priority, and in this first year of government we have promoted different measures. And we are currently working on the Basque draft youth law, which will see the light, let's hope, before the end of this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u73	Mrs Artolazabal, it is very good for you to explain the legislative process to us. We already know him, but thank you very much. Anyway, it's no excuse, because, as I was saying, this has been coming since 2013, it doesn't come from 2017. In 2017, the Basque Government was ratified and a mandate was issued by the Basque Parliament, which has not been fulfilled. However, Mrs Artolazabal, seeing only the difficulties is clear that it prevents us from moving forward. And it keeps us from making huge progress, which is what's going on here. Also, if they are working on a draft, it would be good if the parliamentary groups present here knew, because at least we had no idea of that. I also remind you, Mrs Artolazabal, that in the Spanish State, of the seventeen existing autonomy, thirteen already have a youth law, some since 2002, sixteen years ago; however, in Euskadi we are still waiting for it. Which ones don't we have? Cantabria, Castile-La Mancha, Extremadura and Euskadi. Everyone else already has. As I said, in his legislative calendar for the eleventh parliamentary term he does not speak at any time of the Basque Youth Law, whose elaboration was the first recommendation of the presentation made in 2013. And, in the same vein, this recommendation was that mandate that you were also talking about, approved in this Parliament in March 2017. And in the face of this government's immobilisation, we and we insist: it is vitally important for young people to draw up a Basque youth law, a law that can guarantee the rights of all young people and that takes into account the recommendations drawn from the presentation made in recent years. Because the government must not listen deafly to the mandates of national sovereignty that resides in this Parliament, nor delay them even further than it is already doing. Please get to work with the Basque Youth Law, which the representatives of the citizenry, the collectives and the social movements are looking forward to doing. Stop delaying him further, and get to work, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u75	It is true, Mr Bollain, that we are from the few communities in the State that do not have a youth law, and I recognize that. It is true that many attempts have been made, and that for whatever reasons it has not been possible to reach consensus. You also know that when it comes to defining and agreeing a law in this country we have an institutional framework in which we have to involve that support, that consensus, so that we can all feel comfortable in adopting a law, and that is where we are and that is where we are already working. I did tell them in the committee, when we were talking about another series of youth issues, that, although not being a priority and not within our legislative agenda, we were going to work and we were working on it, because there was already a previous job. This is going to be the third attempt, Mr Bollain, to be able to draw up a law on Basque youth, and I hope that the third will be won. We are currently finalizing this final draft of what the Basque Youth Law will be, and we hope that throughout February we will be able to start with all the internal processing so that we can refer it to this House. The aim of this legislature with regard to the youth area is to promote active policies that enable youth to be promoted and empowered. We have been working on the Fourth Plane Gazette, which we have presented, I have asked to appear in committee to detail it to you. But the youth law is not going to be the magic tool that will give us a solution to all the problems that youth have from night to morning. It's going to be one more tool, which we have to work on...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u76	Thank you, chief physician, time is up. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula, made to the head of the Board of Education, because of the conduct of the Bureau of Education." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. In the last month we have witnessed several episodes of great violence (one episode of attempted sexual abuse, three deaths) caused by minors, including the crime of a marriage in the Bilbao neighbourhood of Otxarkoaga. Episodes that have shocked us all, the whole Basque society, and, in addition to the logical social alarm, events like these reveal an obvious failure of the system. We need to reflect on an issue that has been being warned by the Prosecutor's Office for a long time. Since the annual memory for 2014 there has been a description of an increasing danger in juvenile offenders and a total absence of values. Minors, it seems, in some cases, protected by the Bizkaia Foral Diputation; minors under thirteen years of age, fourteen years of age, sixteen years of age...; minors who should have been in school, that the neighbors of Otxarkoaga wonder why they were not in school, that society wonders why they were not in school, why they had been missing from reception centres and school for so long without anyone doing anything, or at least not doing enough. Education is a right recognized for all children in article 27 of the Constitution, which entails the duty of attendance at the school. In the face of that right and this obligation, what does your department do? How do you guarantee the exercise of this right? How do you control the obligation of all Basque boys and girls to be in school until the age of sixteen? How do you communicate the absences of schools? Last October a protocol of action was signed for unauthorized absences in juvenile centers; a protocol that was signed by the director of the Ertzaintza, by Eudel and by the three deputies, but a department such as yours, such as that of Education, was not there. Madam Counsellor, do you not think that this protocol should be taken further and that not only the absences of children's centres, but also the absences of educational centres, should be considered? We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u78	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u79	Mr. President of Parliament, Congressman, Mrs. Llanos, good morning. The right to education is one of the basic rights of the person recognized in the current legal system. This right is realized through compulsory education, and is concrete in the duty of class attendance, as set out in the 2008 Decree on the Rights and Duties of Students of Non-university Educational Institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It should be noted that in the case of public institutions, the resolution of the Vice-Adviser of Education on the organization of the course in the public institutions of children's and primary education, and the resolution, also of the Vice-Adviser of Education, on the organization of the course in the institutes of secondary education, are regulated. In accordance with the rights and duties of the students I've been describing, he's doing a sysmitistic intervention in the Euscal Autonomy Es member of Erria for the past few years. This is why the Board of Education has established the exercise of control over the existence of students who have a necessary educational order. This control procedure is done by the Department's Education inspection. Track the continuity of the students and control are principally effected on two levels: control and track of individual absentism cases detected over schools and students.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u81	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, if what comes to me here today, to me and to all Basque society, is that the law has been complied with and that it has been complied with with what is laid down in the law, what is laid down in the protocols, what is laid down in the decree, what I tell you is that the law will have to be changed, and the protocols will have to be changed and something more will have to be done. Because what is clear is that the whole of society, but also the institutions, must assume the responsibility that lies with them. The right to education, according to the guidelines, according to that decree that you mentioned, consists not only in training in knowledge, but in educating in respect for rights and freedoms and in the democratic principle of coexistence. And in the cases of which we have spoken, this has grossly failed. We believe that your department has a lot to do, and that you can do a lot in this regard. The behaviour of minors in classrooms, or the absences of minors in classrooms, should be the first warning signal, should be the first warning signal to the various institutions involved. And, in our view, a more individualized treatment should be given and the absences of minors treated differently, because the absence of a minor who is in a structured family is not the same as that of a minor who is not in a structured family, as is the absence of a minor who is in a centre hosted by the Bizkaia Provincial Council. Nor is it understandable that absenteeism at school has consequences for parents and, however, it seems that it does not have consequences for the out-of-town parliament in the presence of the children under guardianship. We believe that it is necessary to go beyond the protocols of action; that it is necessary to complete them, that additional action is needed which has been carried out. We cannot remain in that all this has been fatal. We must, and it is an obligation of all, reflect, see what we can do to ensure that situations like these do not happen again, for the sake of minors and for the sake of society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u82	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs Harper, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u83	Yes, Mrs Llanos, as I said in my first speech, the Education Inspection Service monitors and controls student attendance at two levels. Firstly, a check on schools. Schools must report by day 5 of each month the absenteeism of their pupils between the ages of five and sixteen. They have a computer-based application for this purpose, and it should be noted that educational establishments are diligently completing the requested monthly absenteeism parts. Secondly, the control and track of individual cases of absence in the students is made. As soon as a case of fanaticism is received, the inspectors of the Vision are informed of the activity by informal applications and records of cases of absence. In the news of a case of fanaticism, it will review the activities in which the proper spectacle is to perform the schools; Take it to the family (dialog, letter, direct... ); prepare for the pupil, individually, inform the municipal services (or the aid services in the innovations), and prepare the school report and send it to them. Bestalde, ikastetxeak egunero egin behar du atenziaren inguruko segimendua, antolamenduan autonomiz jarduteko ezarri dituen arau edo eregelamenduaren arabira. Halaber, txostena bidali behar gave Hezkuntza Ikuskaritzari honako kasu hauetan: at the time of an accumulated absenceism of 50% in any basic education course; after three months if the case has been detected in the first primary education course or in the first compulsory secondary education course and a percentage of 20% absenteeism is given; after six months if the case has been detected in any other primary education or compulsory secondary education course and a percentage of 20% absenteeism is given. That is to say, we are acting with greater control than that contained in the decree of the Office of the Prosecutor for Minors of 2017, which indicates that with a absenteeism that does not exceed 50% for more than six months it is not enough to start a judicial process. In addition, the Education Inspectorate of each territory is continuously coordinated with the respective juvenile prosecution offices. The established procedure, agreed by the institutions concerned, is followed with all pupils during the period of compulsory schooling, regardless of the nature of the person exercising the guardianship of the minor. In relation to the protocol it has cited, the Basque Government signs from the Department of the Interior, but on behalf of the whole Government, as set out in the seventh additional provision of Decree 131/2018. On the other hand, I also agree with you that, okay, these are all the measures that we currently have in the standard, but that we have to keep moving forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u84	Thank you, chief physician. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect, made to the head of the Board of Education, the need to postpone the expressions of the heads of the Boards of Education against the unions." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u85	Chief of Parliament, Miss Chief. We thought it urgent and intolerable, Mrs. Uriarte, the statements you made. A head of the Board of Education cannot be placed on that level. The person who has the presidency of education is accused of having families and students kidnapped by the representatives of his employers, one is not respectful; two, he does not know the rules and rights of a democracy, and three, does not help to repair the state of public education at this time. Besides, it's to despise families as if they were minors. Because the unions called us to do a right to all of us. When a member of the Board of Education has to act more than ever with his left hand, when it has to search for complicity in order to find solution for the situation and produce conditions for interaction. And what does he do? On the contrary, you throw more wood into the fire, Mrs. Uriarte. Really, amazing and incomprehensible. That's why, as our representative of society, we'd like to ask you here today to withdraw your statement that you publicly made. And that's why, chief physician, the question is correct: Do you back up on the statements you threw against the unions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u87	Mme. head of the table. Mrs. Ubera, you know better than you know what the meaning of my words was. Another thing is to come to the legislature today with this question of trouble. I made your quote in literary sense. In front of the thousand and thousands of families, I denounced the situation that would live in, and remarked it. It's allowed to organize strikes. Yes, of course. But it's a bad thing to do when you're attacked by a lot of families. That's the meaning of my words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u89	I understood your observations very well, and it is evident that your conduct has become an obstacle to education. It has become an obstacle to the solution of the existing conflict, it has become a hindrance to each other, it has become a hindrance to the production of the conditions of compact. So there are two possibilities in this situation. One, to change behavior or two, to remove the obstacle from the middle. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u91	Look, Mrs. Ubera. My priority in this country is to encourage high-quality educational system: the education of our young men, the care of the working conditions of the teacher, the improvement of education structures... After all, the perfect improvement of our education. It is obvious that in all this we have different points of view, and that we perceive reality in a different manner. With this purpose, and to improve the conditions of the professors' work, we have a few months to talk to the unions that represent the professors. We've had a number of sactorial tables since the law, though sometimes some unions have decided not to participate in them. Last time, however, they're conducting regular meetings. As you know, before Christmas, we extended a very important proposal from the Board of Education to the unions, and in that meeting we agreed to return from our holiday, in another meeting, to extend their opinion about this proposal. However, the unions, and despite the fact that in December some of them pointed out that the proposals seemed interesting to them and that some progress had been made, decided at a press conference to announce a schedule of strikes for the last part of this course. And not just any calendar, no: they announced eighteen days of strike, adding the different education groups. The aim of these strikes is to pressure the department to accept its demands, its demands. I'm not saying it, no; that's what they've publicly stated. And before that decision, there is an obvious question: who gets lost especially, if those strikes are finally held? The answer is clear: loses the student, loses the families. I do not question whether trade unions can call strikes. In fact, they have already done so on other occasions. The question is where the limit is set. Is it justifiable a day or two of a strike, maybe four days of a strike? And if an indefinite strike is called until the end of the course, would you have to assume that you have the right to do so without analyzing the consequences for thousands and thousands of students? I have repeated it over and over again: the government and the unions have a place to discuss and try to approach positions, and that place is called a negotiating table. We have to shield schools with so much pressure that they can carry out their activities without suffering the direct consequences of union demands. We all need to act responsibly, and in that regard from the Basque Government we will do everything in our power to reduce tension and continue to work towards an agreement. And if it is a good thing that I should turn away from my words, I do so without any problem, Mrs Ubera. Without any problem, because we all need to act responsibly. What draws my attention to is that you in the justification of the question point out that at this time it is necessary to promote initiatives, actions and declarations that promote collaboration. And to call eighteen days of strike is to promote initiatives and actions that promote collaboration? I don't think so, eh! Eighteen strike days at the end of the course seems to me to exceed the most basic sense of balance, and more so when unions and departments continue to work and bring positions closer together. Without going further, this week we have held a total of three meetings with different contents. If the goal of all parties is to improve our educational system, let us not make you suffer with eighteen days of strike.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Gasja Sémper Basque Group to the head of Education, "about the improvement of the euscal educational system." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor, I left on. I begin by confessing that sometimes it is a little strange to ask or ask, because one has the feeling that with a written question for answer would suffice, because you read both the reply – which is logical up there – and the counter-reply. But I also confess that we will continue to insist and persevere throughout what is left of the legislature, because the matter requires it. Given the circumstances, I believe that everyone in this House, and I hope that you too, can agree that the vicissitudes that our educational system is going through are frankly improveable. There are numerous conflicts arising from the relations or lack of relationship and inability of his Government to interact with educational agents, and there have also recently been audible alarms about the assessments, with the data resulting from the evaluations of our education system. And I'm telling you this because the legislative calendar that your government presented at the beginning of the legislature relegates for the third quarter (third quarter) of 2019 the referral to this House of an education bill. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, if your legislative timetable literally says that this draft law on education is going to be necessary "to further advance and deepen the quality of the Basque educational system", and that, also, the aim is to establish a law, through this law, "to address the peculiarities of our system, with the instruments necessary to respond to their needs in a stable and lasting way, which includes innovative elements that reverse in the improvement of the system: autonomy, multilingualism, training, new technologies, networks, materials, educational organization, etc.", how it is possible that, being so important, your department and you, after a legislature and media, tell us that by the end of this legislature it is when we are going to forward such an important draft law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u95	President andrea. Mr. Semper, sometimes you surprise me too. Just a detail of his initial intervention: interlocution there is, another thing is that no agreements are reached. It takes the will of the two parties to reach agreements, but there is an interlocution. As the President stated on September 21st, in the whole council of general policy, "The Government has the preponderance," in the Euscalic model for social protection. In this Illus, this government has established four challenges of the people to the future: Education, a wager for demographics and young challenges, a selection and a digitalization, and an internationalization of Basques. We know that these challenges are indispensable to a shared project that will enable us to proceed from our work together. The main goal of our entire activity is to improve our educational system. Thus I have expressed several times, and so I expressed at the beginning of the legislation, in front of the Board of Education, the representation I made of the strategic order of the department. We must be proud of the educational system this country has created for 35 years. Centers, teachers, families share the system view to create shared commitment to administration, and to apply permanent improvements. And that's what we're saying over and over again. With regard to the education law you comment on, you also know that prior to the education law it is also stated that we have to reach an agreement, and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u97	Counsellor, if you were a newcomer, if you had just landed at the council (I no longer say in politics, at least in the council), we could all understand that we are working on it. What happens is that you have already passed a legislature by assuming the responsibility you now assume, the past, and you carry this legislature by exercising the same responsibility. He can't come here and tell us he's on it. Because if there is an important department in this government..., many are important, but if there is one that is strategic, because it affects the present and fundamentally the future of our society, it is the one that you lead. And also, when there are threats about the education system itself, which we share with you that it is a basically reasonable and good education system, if it is not reformed, if we do not introduce reforms to adapt it to a new reality, it will die of success. And you're going to happen like the king who goes naked, who knows everybody but you. And reforms must be introduced, and what we have told you on numerous occasions in this House is that you can count on the support of the People's Party to introduce those reforms and to put them into practice. That he doesn't get along with the unions? Okay. That it does not deal well with educational agents and that there are numerous criticisms about their management? Okay. Well, at least look for allies in this House. But introduce us something, present us a document on what we can discuss. If I have the feeling that in this House we are all willing to leave our hairs on the net to get a new education system, through a new law, that strengthens the skills of our students and that allows our young people, our boys and girls, to face a future with other tools, more modern and better! But you have to take the initiative, because you lead educational policy in this country. You're the one who's responsible! And then, of course, it turns out that, according to IVEI's own data, bad in Basque, bad in English, bad in mathematics, bad in Spanish, bad in English, not even expected... Let's do something now, counselor. Put on your batteries, you're running out of time. But he's running out of time, not because we don't give it to him: he's running out of legislature. And this bill is fun-de-men-tal. Integrate him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u99	Mr Semper, you know perfectly well how we work in this country, and that the basis of everything is the agreement. And you also know that before a law of education, a law as important as that of education, it is necessary to reach an agreement, a consensus among all political, educational and social agents. And that's the way we're on. The last legislature you say (of course, I'm not new), we've already started a path, we've put a plan in place, we've defined with all agents an educational model that we're currently implementing. We are implementing it through an improvement plan, through the curricula, which, by the way, are being resorted to by the government of the State, of the party to which you belong. And you know perfectly well that in this legislature we have begun a process that has been presented in this House (in addition to the agents themselves, it has been presented in this House), of how we are developing or working on that agreement that provides the basis, that provides us with the basis of that future education law. Because we can't bring an education law simply because we've come up with a draft. No, no, What we want is a consensual law, in which everyone is comfortable, and we are working on that path. I mean, don't tell me you're not doing anything. Another thing is that you don't want to recognize him. Another thing is that you don't want to recognize him. Because I think we've been realizing each and every step we've been taking. We developed the educational model, and we brought it to this House; the curricula were participated and approved; we took steps to have a relationship with educational agents to start seeking this agreement; we brought to this House what process we have put in place at different stages and at different stages. He knows perfectly well that a proposal to reach agreement will come to this House, and he knows perfectly well that the law is included in the legislative timetable. So don't tell me we're not doing things. Another thing... I would ask you a question: Are you willing to work for an education agreement? Are you willing to come and work with everyone on an education agreement? Because I don't have that same feeling, eh! I don't have the same feeling.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department about the peas in the ventilator's campaign." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors. Well, the truth is, Mr. Counselor, you surprised us... This is not the first time we have been surprised by statements. Do you remember that of the tulips, which was also the occasion of a question in this plenary? But what motivated this question from this parliamentarian has been her statements in the middle of the flu campaign, in which she compared the existing queues in a cafeteria, or when buying the toys at Christmas, or the queues that may be in a football match, in an Athletic-Alavés derby (let's also say Alavés-Real or Athletic-Real), with those existing at many points in Osakidetza, especially in emergencies. I believe, Mr Councillor, that those statements were absolutely inappropriate, unfortunate, inappropriate, and I also believe that you will agree with me that attending a football match, or a cafeteria, is an act of leisure and is confined to an act of leisure by mere will, and going to a health centre, an emergency or a CAP for having flu-related symptoms is a matter of health and therefore a matter of necessity. Therefore, the comparison I think today you will recognize in this rostrum that it was nothing adequate, and absolutely unfortunate and inappropriate. Moreover, it is more, because in the midst of the flu campaign to make these statements, when there are people who are having a bad time, when there are professionals who are making a special effort to care for all the people who come to the various points of care of Osakidetza, sincerely, counselor, seems somewhat frivolous to us. And it does not seem to us that it is a question that can be frivolized, when, on the basis of the data that you have also provided through the epidemiological surveillance network, there have been forty-four people who have died (seven in the last week) in relation to causes associated with influenza, when 1,173 patients have needed hospitalization (forty-two with severe prognosis), and the incidence of influenza, because it has been important. Therefore, counselor, I do not expect from you anything else that you acknowledge in this rostrum that these statements were not adequate and that, therefore, the comparison did not come to nothing. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u103	Mrs. President, Congressmen, good noon. Mrs Garrido, the conning plan before the flu worked really well. Thanks to the measures taken, and the professionality of the workers, we've faced the flu properly. That's the most important thing. I told him that the device prepared to deal with the influenza epidemic has worked well, and this is really important. The statements you have quoted need to be contextualized. I guess you'll have heard them in full, and you'll know how the professionals were talked about. Mixing flu mortality with statements doesn't have half a pass. Thus, with regard to the greater influx of people into emergencies during Christmas, coinciding with the influenza epidemic, in addition to other considerations, I set out some more or less fortunate examples – probably unfortunate – to visualize that on those dates people are expected on many occasions and in many activities, and that in the health centres during the period of greatest demand people with mild processes – don't forget – must also wait more, fundamentally for professionals to do their job properly. Perhaps the examples used were not the proper ones. In any case, I tried to explain the importance of using the health world's resources with responsibilities. That was my goal. All the people who go to the submarines are taken care of. These are classed according to their anxiety, and, as it is natural, the greater the anxiety, the less time they must wait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I've wanted to understand in some way your apologies, counselor, and the recognition that your statements were not very fortunate. He said "more or less unfortunate." I would stress that they were absolutely unfortunate, but, well, it is a correction that I think is appropriate, because their statements were not good, and above all they had an echo, not only in the local and regional media, but also in other national media. I haven't questioned the flu-related devices at all. Moreover, I have highlighted and praised the work of the professionals, that we all know that in addition to the flu campaign, and especially during vacation periods, they have to make an additional effort, considering that there are also professionals who are on vacation and that the number of patients and patient care is higher. Well, well, in any case, counselor, I'm glad you apologize, and let's hope that when there are other episodes of flu again they face up to the way they have to, and above all by guaranteeing the quality of service. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u107	Well, in any case, I welcome your concern about the flu and the established device, which is really relevant. This year we have recorded a peak of 418 per 100,000 inhabitants, being one of the communities with the highest number of people affected. In primary care, which is a sign of the concern of the staff, staff at both health centres and continuing care points have been strengthened. Hospitals have strengthened emergencies, services with increased demand and hospitalization at home. An extraordinary supply of 529 beds has been made available, and this year, for the first time, the epidemic has been faced with the emergencies and the beds of the new open Alfredo Espinosa Hospital in Urduliz. We have also arranged beds in health centres in the three territories, and health transport has been strengthened. Today, although the epidemic, according to the latest data, is beginning to descend, we are keeping the contingency plan active, as we are still at epidemic levels of influenza. I would like to highlight in particular the work of the plan's monitoring committee, which, since the beginning of the epidemic every day, has shared the situation of each centre with regard to the number of emergency, income, high, available beds, incidences, etc., in order to try to ensure an adequate response. I would also like to thank the work and professionalism of health personnel in both private and public health facilities, especially primary care, as well as pharmacies and the health transport network, which from their different fields have worked and continue to work to combat influenza. The flu's company plan worked really well. That's why, and thanks to professional Oscars, we've been dealing with the flu in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpologies made by the President of Tourism, commerce, and Constuna Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Society." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u109	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, I call on you on behalf of the People's Group on the future of Ikusmer, the Euskadi Trade Distribution Observatory, as stated in the creation decree. It is in 2006, and within the Business Competitiveness and Innovation Plan designed by the Basque Government for the period 2006-2009, that the government at that time commits itself to orienting its policies in improving the competitiveness of the business fabric, improving the effectiveness of institutional policies and consumer satisfaction, given that price behaviour at that time was generating increasing concern, due to its impact on both general inflation and the competitiveness of the economy. In this House in 2006 the Basque Government is urged to set up a body capable of providing rapid and up-to-date information on developments in the Basque commercial sector. Information that would be useful both to the institutions, for their political decision-making, and to the sector itself in carrying out their strategic planning. For this reason, Decree 56/2007 of 27 March created and regulated the Trade Distribution Observatory, which was subsequently amended in 2012 to make it more agile. Up to now, up to 2007, information in this matter was provided by Eustat, and the Eustat work system was dilated too much, so that the processing of data and results was presented with two years of lag, so that the results presented were an old picture of the trade situation, and not that of the time when the information was published. This fact continues to occur in Eustat in the planning it carries out, in the publications it carries out. For example, the trade and repair survey, which was last updated in November 2007, facilitates the trade situation in 2005. Almost two years of difference between the situation it presents and the time to publish it, while the trade barometers carried out by Ikusmer show a difference of two months from the beginning of the work until it is published. Ikusmer is created to solve this problem mainly, as a specific tool that analyses and reports on the evolution of the sector both to the government and to the Basque trade. It detects trends in the sector, reports on innovations, calculates indicators that check whether the trade master plans are developing in a positive way for the sector. It advises and provides presentations to both the industry and the technicians of the Directorate for Trade. It draws up the trade barometer and the demand barometer, and all those reports and research that arise from the current situation, in addition to preparing the report on the Basque trade every six months. Within Ikusmer there are also the working groups that meet regularly in order to promote discussions with experts from different fields (from the company, university, public administration, researchers, etc.), debates on aspects that affect the commercial distribution sector, and to be able to extract a picture of the reality of the sector and translate it into reports that are useful for the design of the strategic plans of the companies in the sector. On the website of the Ikusmer Observatory it has been possible to see, the studies and reports prepared are hung, all of them of great interest. In addition its page offers a wide public consultation fund, an important tool where current content, reports, trends, that help the growth of the sector are disseminated. The creation decree (the one I mentioned on 56/2007) sets out the functioning of the observatory. It will act, he says, through the plenary, with thirty members (the 2012 amendment leaves them in twenty-four); the executive commission, with seven members, that the decree of 2012, in the government of Mr López, eliminates it, and the technical secretariat, initially three workers, and then passes to two. Between 2007 and 2009, the Technical Secretariat was launched through an agreement with the Basque Chambers of Commerce, which, through a selection process, recruited three persons to carry out the tasks assigned to the Technical Secretariat of Ikusmer and whose recruitment was carried out by the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce. The three workers (one administrative, one technical and one director) designed and launched the trade observatory, and presented an action plan approved by the Trade Directorate. During this period 2007-2009, the Observatory's plenary meeting was held twice, and showed the highest degree of satisfaction in the sector with the work carried out in those two years of operation. In 2010, in the government of Mr López, the vice-counsel, Mrs Zorrilla, decided to waive the agreement with the Basque Chambers, and said that Ikusmer would probably be located, together with the industry observatory, in SPRI. In this stalemate situation, it is decided to open the service of the technical secretariat for development by a consultant. The SPRI is never integrated, as it had been announced at one time, and the biannual contest has been held until 2017, which has been for a single year. The work of the technical secretariat has been taken care of... despite the fact that the competitions have been won by different consultants, they have all hired the two persons who make up the technical secretariat, which the competition did not require the subrogation of the staff of the observatory. Since 2010, none of the three Deputy Trade Advisers (Mrs. Zorrilla, Ms. Epalza and Ms. Muela) have convened the plenary of the observatory. The vice-counsel is the chair of the plenary, and it is therefore up to the chair to convene. But Ikusmer has continued to work, has continued to be managed through the technical secretariat, and coordinating its work through monthly follow-up meetings with the current director of Commerce of the Basque Government, the trade delegation technician attached to the observatory competition, and the observatory staff. The non-call of the plenary has not been a problem for the development of Ikusmer's work. It is a summons that, as I say, corresponds to the vice-counsel, not to the technical secretariat. It is 2017 that has been the most complex, strange and rare in this observatory. A complicated year, because in Ikusmer first time is wasted with the contest, awarding the job to a company that did not credit the required experience, the award was appealed, and in the end the job had to be given to the company that appealed. This means a stoppage of the work, reintegrating the workers of the technical secretariat at the end of July 2017, and they are told and informed that it will not continue with the award through competition, as it has been done, since the project requires stability, and they bet on the return to recruitment through chambers of commerce. They are later told that Ikusmer disappears, and they are then asked for an action plan for 2018. It is December 28 when they are assured that in a week they will join the service. And then what happened? Silence, no response, no response, no attention. That's what happened. The workers of the technical secretariat have been called from other autonomous communities to give presentations on the work that this observatory has carried out, because it must be said that it has been a model observatory, that we were pioneers. Because there were times when this government was a pioneer, indeed. And why is he a reference? Because Ikusmer's studies are chosen for the research of universities around the world; his works are magnificently valued by the trade sector; his website has 1,500 visits per month; they attend consultations of municipalities, traders, trade technicians...; they feed the web, with search engine and an information repository with more than 400 studies and 27,000 news; they attend and collaborate with all agents in the sector. They are not included in the new Trade Master Plan. Someone gave the order not to include them. While, on the other hand, they were telling them to prepare a management plan for 2018. Human capital and its knowledge are ignored, its work in these ten years has no value to anyone who is managing at this time Commerce. A reference tool for the trade sector; an economic tool, very economical, probably the most economical tool of the entire Basque administration (120,000 euros a year). Tell me, an advertisement that has been made by the government, the Department of Commerce, to advertise the bonus, has cost us 300,000 euros, to advertise a late and bad Christmas bonus. Ladies and gentlemen, counselor, what is the future of Ikusmer?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u110	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask the question and – I was going to say in ten minutes... – in thirty seconds you answer. Well, you've been making a tour of Ikusmer a little bit on the jump, so I'll try to set out my position on it by actually telling you what Ikusmer's situation is; what has been, since its creation, Ikusmer's operating regime; what has been the operating regime in terms of information production, as an observatory for the Euskadi Commercial Distribution, and what is the department's current situation with regard to the statistical information or statistical information resources that it has or tries to have. Indeed, Ikusmer was created in 2007 by a decree. A decree that was modified in 2012, but a reflection of modification that came from the end of 2010, when it was already pointed out that, with regard to an approach that had been that of looking to the past, Ikusmer should be more focused on analysis of trends than on analysis of results. In any case, that first decree – which is not later amended – in the first final provision tells us something about what the objective or intention was to create this observatory. This first final provision stated that the operation of the Euskadi Commercial Distribution Observatory will be handled with the material means and human resources of the department. In fact, the first option in relation to the creation of this statistical information body for the then Department of Industry, Commerce and Tourism was the creation of a unit within the department, which would provide statistical information to the department and the sector in relation to its trade policies. This option was rejected primarily because of budget availability, or because it changed the approach at the time, and, with regard to fattening the Administration with the creation with a new body, other formulas were sought. And, indeed, the first formula used was to agree with the chambers of commerce on this service which had been approved by Government decree; despite, he said, the first final provision of that same decree. Then he left. What you did not say is that the Office of Economic Control the following year advised against the use of the figure of the convention to maintain this service, an agreement with chambers of commerce. He did not advise or report negatively on the use of an agreement with chambers of commerce to maintain this service. This means that from that point onwards, starting in the following year, the public procurement procedure is used for the technical secretariat of the observatory. On this, too, I have to make a point, but I will do it later. So as of 2010, this technical secretariat of the observatory is offered in public competition, which I will tell you that in that first year it assumed, compared to the quantities you have handled, 256,650 euros. This competition was repeated the following year, in 2011, it was extended in 2012; it was renewed in 2013, it was extended in 2014; it was renewed in 2015, it was extended in 2016, and it was re-opened in competition for the year 2017, but with a variation in the quantities: if we had started with 256,650 euros, for the year 2015 the contest came out with an amount... or the final award of the amount to that technical secretariat was EUR 171,215. In other words, it had been significantly reduced, although the functions of this technical secretariat had allegedly not changed. What situation do I have when I arrive? When I arrive the contest is convened (it was convened since September 2016), and it is awarded at the right time, at the time before I assume the responsibilities of the new department then, Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. And I find that this award that is made at the end of November is appealed in January. And the procedure, first by the administrative body of contractual remedies, and then the different game between the two companies that had presented themselves, leads us to the fact that there is no technical secretariat of this observatory until the summer of 2017. Until June we do not have this observatory, for a halt according to the regime that is followed by public tenders. By the way, there is no question in this regard as to the cessation of this very important service during all those months. And it works from the month of July. As you also know, at that time, in the creation of the new department, while this department has statistical operations (it has the statistical operation of Ibiltur, Frontur and Familyitur), it is mandatory to create (it is a new department, but it has statistical operations) a statistical body, something that from the approval of the Decree of Structures – which is approved, as you know, also for a matter of deadlines and entries, at the end of March – we begin to realize from June. In other words, a statistical body of the department for the creation of statistics that is justified in the existence of statistical operations. It is true that the three linked to the field of tourism, but in the approach to the creation of that statistical body we obviously have to have a vision too, for a question you have mentioned of saving resources, of all the sectors. One more question before you answer. Ikusmer, what is Ikusmer? You ended up identifying Ikusmer with the technical secretary. The same decree to which you refer states that the Basque Observatory for Commercial Distribution consists of three bodies: one is the consultative forum, the full observatory; the other is the executive committee, which effectively declines in the amendment of the 2012 decree, and the other is the technical secretariat. The functions you assign in your inquiry to the observatory are functions that the original decree – and then is maintained – assigns not to the technical secretariat, but to the forum, to the consultative forum. Consultative Forum, which establishes a function of directing the contents of the observatory. Not the technical secretariat. The technical secretariat attends the forum, which is actually responsible for the functions entrusted to the observatory. What's the situation I'm in? With the paralysis of that governing body of Ikusmer. Therefore, considering the set of situations... First, a public competition situation that he had demonstrated, he showed us in 2017 that it was not timely, while he could paralyze the service during the middle of the year, without, I insist, recording question or inquiry on it. Secondly, the governing body has not met for a very long time, and does not establish what the contents are. What's more, you've been talking about working groups. The working groups are from the plenary, not from the technical secretariat. Therefore, I am faced with a situation in which the technical secretariat comes, let us say, to supplement the failure, according to the decree itself, of the whole of the Basque Observatory of Commercial Distribution. It is at this point, and in addition to the creation of an own statistical body, in which, from my point of view, instead of following inertia and having reconvened a competition and having followed exactly with the same inertia, which would probably have avoided their questioning on 9 January, in that situation, from my point of view, and also in view of the very reactions I receive from the sector in the preparation of the work of the strategic plan and the master plan for trade, when what we are opening is a reflection on the statistical body for the creation of information. The functions remain in force. We have not decided, let us say, to eliminate Ikusmer, but, of course, I think it is absolutely necessary, and of course we will do so within the shortest possible time, to reflect in depth on the needs and the usefulness of this body.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u112	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u113	Counselor, ask Mrs Zorrilla, ask Mrs Epalza why they did not convene the plenary. Ask them. What the technical secretariat has done with the directors of Commerce – and some former director of Commerce now has in her cabinet that will be able to explain it perfectly – has worked, with the assistant technicians of the department for the observatory. Therefore, award for the secretariat. Secretariat prize, okay? But you, as you say, have found a problem. But what have you done since July to today? What did your apartment do? First, we need stability in the observatory; therefore, we are going to re-hire through the chambers of commerce, which you tell me you have a report saying that it was not timely and that it was prevented by the Office of Economic Control. That's what I got. Then they are told that Ikusmer will disappear, to the line then ask them for an Ikusmer performance plan for 2018. Then see how the Trade Master Plan does not include Ikusmer. Then, on 28 December – the date they also chose for the announcement – they told them that the secretariat's work would resume within a week. Hey, bandages and unanswered judgment. No, Mr. Counselor. What your department has shown in the area of trade has been a complete disorientation. And why? Because Commerce hasn't been on your agenda. Trade this year hasn't been on your agenda. He's had another job. I'm not saying I haven't worked, but Commerce hasn't been. Because, look, today we go to the Ikusmer page and we see, information from 2017: September, October, November and December. Next events: "There will be no events soon, excuse the troubles." Hey, what are we...? Where have we taken this? Isn't there a way to solve this differently, not by giving this image? On the website, 1,500 monthly entries. Those 1,500 tickets... What happened here?, what do we have?, who's behind this?, what administration is carrying this? Man, I think things will need reflection, but before we destroy what we have, we'll have to have an alternative. And it seems to me very good to have a reflection, and it seems to me very good to have new projects, but that contrasts: what I have changed for what I have chosen, and I do not lose. Don't you tell me the deadlines that have been lost? Yes, yes! For now, in that period of reflection, we shall see! I already know you're going to have your idea, of course you have your idea. I know perfectly well what your idea is. I know perfectly well how to feed your observatory. I know perfectly well what you're going to do there. Of course I know! I know very well. But, hey, for that, don't break down a tool that was playing an important role. And the performance you're having regarding this tool I think is not the right one. I think Ikusmer and the people who have spent so much time on this deserve a minimum of respect. A minimum of respect, because they are workers, a very important human capital, with an important knowledge. There will be people with more knowledge, I have no doubt. I know you're going to choose the best. I have no doubt. Look, the trade sector..., the last DAFO that is hanging in 2017, made by the technical secretariat, tells us about how we have the reality of trade, about the need we have for hoarding and support tools. Because we would all like to have a trade equipped with the highest technology, but it is that the data and the DAFO tell us that it is that we have the very basic tools, ancient, that we do not have strategic plans in the trades, that we are very... I'm not going to say diapers, but we're technologically far behind, and the gap is being made. Therefore, this stop can't understand. And, counselor, I think this tool has been adapting to the times, and now, too, it probably has to make an adaptation, of course, but let's not let this go. We've pulled the page, the tool we've broken down, and "I'll bring you something new." Understand that I am surprised by this course of action. Understand that I'm surprised. As I was saying, I think we need to put trade on the department's agenda, on the agenda, but as something very important. You know that trade, along with hospitality, are the axes that spill over the urban helmets of our cities and towns. It's not anything trade! Tourism is very important, but it is that trade and hospitality play a very important social role, apart from economic activity. Therefore, I think it deserves more attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u114	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Retortillo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. López de Ocariz, don't play games with me. If we are going to talk about the work of the technical secretariat, or even the workers, we can agree. In fact, to a large extent they have made up – from my point of view – a rather obvious inefficiency, despite the lack of control, in the operation, especially in recent times, of the Trade Distribution Observatory. The need for reflection on this, a need that comes not only from inefficiencies caused, for example, by the competition regime for the technical secretariat, but also because times change that it is barbarity, and also in this, also in statistical information. And new tools must be put in place, and a new approach must also be given to the collection of trade data. Indeed, trade is very important. That's why I told you before that what I wasn't going to do was let myself get carried away by inertia. Because the easy inertia was to repeat last year's process, and you wouldn't be here making an inquiry. Because this thing you're telling me about the parking lot... Today we are on 2 February, which is when you are presenting in full that inquiry, but it is that you have registered it on 9 January, Mrs López de Ocariz. January 9th. Big stop! And what happened last year? That until June there is no observatory, and there is no question, no questioning or anything that is astounding. The effluents of the turret and the dustbins had not disappeared on 9 January, and you ask me a question about the continuity or not of the observatory. How did you know there couldn't have been a call on the 12th? Well, that's it. Well, that's it. Of course trade is important. It is so important, and it is so important to have good information, because it is indeed in a context of risk, of multiple risks that threaten the future of a sector that is vital, not only in terms of economic activity, but above all in the creation of social cohesion and in the creation of neighbourhood life, of the lives of our peoples, of our cities, of our streets, is so important, that precisely why I have not allowed myself to be carried away by inertia. And I also say to him, that he has missed it, and I also say to him that the department, as a newly created department and department that carries out statistical operations, is obliged, and we have developed the procedure (and right now is waiting for the report of the Basque Bureau of Statistics and the ECO itself), to the elaboration of that statistical body with which Commerce did not count, with which Tourism did not count, because it did not have that departmental status before and now it will have it. I think that is more important, to reflect effectively on the needs, regardless of whether – if you want from here I say so – the work of the technical secretariat has largely filled other inefficiencies of the observatory itself, but we cannot be content with that. It was necessary, this reflection is necessary, and precisely because I am concerned about the needs of trade is what I have done. I have decided to stop, reflect, and from there establish what are going to be the sources of statistical information for the trade sector in the department. For example, you know perfectly well that the department's statistical body from time to time, every month, draws information, the information provided by Eustat himself, on tourism surveys, on the survey of host establishments, etc. Well, the same could be done about trade. But for some strange reason he was outsourced, left out of the department's own statistical obligations. Well, I am not prepared for that to continue, precisely because of the importance I attach to trade, in the new creation of this department's own statistical body. And that necessarily leads me to reconsider, from that moment on, what will be the information production strategy, also external, by the department for the trade sector. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u116	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the Security department, the difference between security and the women and men." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u117	Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mrs. Beltán de Heedia. Emakunde has presented the study "Experience of police detention in women of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country" together with its authors Lohitzune Zuloaga, Estibalix de Miguel and Miren Ortubay. Ms. Landaida explained in the study that gender differences are evident in how the police identify and resolve. Counselor, what is your assessment of whether the actions of the Ertzaintza are different depending on whether the person arrested is a man or a woman?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u119	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Arana, in relation to the reference study, I think it is appropriate to highlight some important aspects. This is a study aimed at analysing the procedures related to the arrest of women, in fact. The contribution of Ertzaintza is only part of this study. In fact, it focuses mainly on semi-structured personal interviews with nine women, thirty-two police officers, eleven lawyers and ten civil entities and associations. Even from the point of view of the objectives of the study is a very polyhedral research, I would say. The authors of the document set out a number of objectives, four in particular. On the one hand, describe the profiles of the people, and specifically of the women who are detained, in order to know what their state is, their situation of vulnerability. On the other hand, to know the circumstances of the detention, to know what type of crime is involved. Thirdly, the conditions of stay in police units are studied before being made available to the courts, in order to see whether gender, social class, geographical origin or ethnic group biases could be made in such police treatment. And finally collects good practices and proposals for improvement. Thus, the authors themselves stress that, in addition to gender conditions, women may be affected by other issues of inequality and exclusion. When you wanted to focus on gender stereotypes in Ertzaintza's actions, however, it is clear that the study covers much broader issues and issues that affect not only Ertzaintza. In any case, I have to tell you that I consider that this study also captures – and correctly captures – the positive aspects that are already applied in these Ertzaintza detention processes, and puts forward proposals for improvement that we will analyse for possible implementation. We are the department, and Ertzaintza itself, the first interested in implementing the gender perspective in police policies and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u120	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u121	Beltran de Heredia anderea, thank you very much for the summary of the report, which we had already read. It is widely agreed that it is essential to incorporate a gender perspective into security policies; however, we have security policies that currently devote an inadequate percentage of their efforts and resources to preventing crimes that violate freedoms, social justice, equality or sustainability, such as corruption, tax offences, labour rights, sexist violence, hate crimes, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity, or environmental crimes. Major international agencies have expressed the need to study and analyse security policies and the criminal situation of individuals from a gender perspective. This report before us today somehow fills a gap that the Department of Safety is not covering. In 2000, the Vienna Declaration on Crime and Justice was signed, in which States members of the United Nations committed themselves to making action-oriented public policy recommendations based on the special needs of women as prisoners or offenders. A decade later the Bangkok Rules were remembered, which I imagine you will know. We hope that the Department of Safety and Security will take good note of the Vienna Declaration, the Van Gogh Rules and this study, because in the budgeting process it has already become clear to us that policies on equality and the eradication of machist violence are not among the priorities of its department. To begin with, in the explanatory memoir of the budget, in the point Security and Civil Prevention there is not a single mention – not a single one – of policies of equality or macho violence, and, as we all know, what is not named does not exist. Furthermore, according to the report of the Department of Finance and Economy accompanying the budget proposal, the Department of Safety and Security did not complete the forms to analyse the gender perspective in budget programmes. They only provided relevance and relevance, so the gender impact could not be assessed. And if we talk about the Basque Police Academy and emergencies more of the same: it did not bring any relevance or relevance, nor did it deliver the above-mentioned form. I suppose you will know the decree of the Basque Government adopted in 2017, which regulates the impulse and coordination of equality policies in the departments of the Basque Government. Well, according to the Department of Finance and Economics, Arkaute has not carried out the necessary procedures, has not set aside budget for the creation of the administrative unit for equality. Mrs Beltran of Heredia, ten years of non-compliance with the decree. Ten years. Do you think this is about having a gender perspective in your department? But that's not all. If we begin to analyze the internal policies of the department, it is clear that it is a highly masculinized department: 89% of the staff of the Ertzaintza are men. And the best of all: one hundred percent of the surpluses for the care of children in your department (one hundred percent) have been requested by women. And if we talk about reduced days for care, we talk more or less about the same thing. Don't you think that human resources and organizational culture policies need to be reviewed and redesigned? Don't you think we should take a gender perspective in your department? We have a model that has so far been exclusive to the women of the institution, the data are indisputable, and a model that also compromises the quality of the Ertzaintza's actions with the citizenry, as evidenced in this report. You can tell me that masculinization is a feature shared with other police forces. Too bad of many, comfort of fools. We tell you that this government has the resources to reverse this historical trend... Lack of willpower.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Time is up. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u123	Mrs Arana, some of the considerations of this study, which you have also read, are part of, as you will also know (I hope you know), of the commitments reflected in the department's equality plan and the academy's equality plan itself. For example, the amendment of the Basque Police Act, to raise the percentage of women in the Ertzaintza to 33%; an issue in which, as I think you already know, we are repeatedly influencing the latest calls for new promotions. We are aware that this scarce 12% presence of women that we have today needs to be corrected in the future. The latest promotions already mark this trend, and we have achieved 25% of the incorporation. We are also developing recommendations for a non-sexist use of language, both in the field of internal relations and in the field of external relations. And the gender perspective, in addition to other subjects related to equality, non-discrimination, interculturality and human rights, are cross-cutting training subjects, both in courses on access to the Basque police and in promotion and specialization courses at the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies. In any case, in light of the problem raised by the study on the group of women in detention, I assure you that we will analyse each and every one of these issues in order to focus on improving care and improving detention procedures. Even more so, as you also know, the approach of the detention program, which is subject to quality management standards according to ISO-9001...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "About the workers' systems." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u125	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I left it on. The year of 2018 has just begun, six serious accidents that have occurred during the death. Eight of our employees have gone away from a work accident. First of all, our sympathies and solidarity with their families. The first month of the year was a bus driver who had been ambushed after an accident in the 4th of January, facing a motor-boat. The second one was a truck driver who was examining the vehicle as he had caught his trucks. The third, a hired member of a Contrary harbour in Bilbo, was washing a bridge of a ship when he fell into the water with the receiver. On January 25th, the Indian Sea, in a tuna pot in one of the Bermeean corporations, a fisherman from Ghana lost his life. Although it has happened far from here and the fisherman isn't from here, he was a worker of one of our business workers, a worker who suffered under the severe conditions of a fishing doctor. The fifth accident that happened yesterday morning. Two drivers died yesterday in the critical accident of Galdaón, a bus driver and a truck driver. And this year's last accident, the accident that happened yesterday afternoon. Two more workmen died at Loiun during the rest of their labours in a fatal accident. The black one really was last night. It is much easier to put numbers into numbers than to put the names of these dead workers, more coldly than to put the same crude reality behind them: eight dead in a month. The year 2017 ended with a very bad result, because of the labouring accident that the number of victims had not fallen in proportion to their previous year, and for the last three years the tendency continued to do so. We see that the measures which have hitherto been proposed or taken have been insufficient, and have not been effective. So, what do you think about taking new measures that will really be effective?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u126	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Allow me, Mrs Otamendi, to begin my speech by sending my deepest condolences and those of the rest of the Basque Government to the relatives, colleagues and friends of the workers who died yesterday. And to say that, for our part, both Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate will act as they do in these cases, when a serious, very serious or fatal accident occurs, which is reaching the last causes of these accidents to prevent them from occurring again. And I am also going to reiterate something I have been saying since the day I took full responsibility for the head of the Department of Labour and Justice, which is that every working person has the right to return to his home, after having completed his working day, in the same health conditions with which he left. The accident at work, whatever its gravity, is a collective failure, which involves the whole of Basque society in different ways. Firstly, it will indicate that there are shortcomings in our society as regards the development of preventive culture. This is where Osalan plays a decisive role. The training of prevention delegates and delegates and the dissemination of preventive culture to all workers is a function that plays with full responsibility. Hence the competences are well established and reflected in the Labour Risk Prevention Act of 1995, which makes it clear that the employer is responsible for prevention, training and safety information. It is therefore the employers who have to incorporate the value of risk prevention and link it to perfectly assumed ones, such as profitability, competitiveness or innovation. But, having said that, we are also talking about something that concerns society as a whole, and first and foremost the institutions, as I said, Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate. For this reason, in addition to the inspector's work, we are working from the department to correct and if it is necessary to punish those who do not fulfil their responsibilities... On the other hand, all accidents are investigated, as I have said, which are serious, very serious and fatal in Euskadi, in order to then analyse and draw the appropriate conclusions and to be able to design new prevention proposals that can be implemented in the future. These are the measures we are putting in place, trying to constantly improve and making a spiral (diffusion-prevention-inspection-research-new measures) that always incorporates improvements. Finally, as representatives of the society involved in the reduction of accidents at work, we have to rely on the trade unions, and especially on the delegates and prevention delegates, who must act as facilitators, to their colleagues, of the spread of the preventive culture and of the adoption of security measures. As for the quantitative aspect, which of course concerns us and concerns us, I will point out to you that in a matter like this the analysis of data must cover broader series. I will give you an account of the evolution of the data between 2000 and 2016, as Osalan's memory is about to be concluded: the incidence rate, which is the number of accidents at work per thousand employed persons, has dropped from 6.2 in 2000 to 3.1 in 2016, so, without wanting to be triumphant, I believe it shows a positive evolution beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u128	Thank you, chief physician. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u129	Thank you. You didn't answer me, but, well... In the Commission of Work and Justice, we demanded several instances, and when we hear the opinion of unions and corporations, there have been in most cases agreed upon the first measures of superiority to subvert the state, which we all agree with them. Two are mainly. One, ending up with the ticket. The care of the case of dead workers in work, in a great measure, is checked by a large majority and also by the directors of Osalan. Even in the works of 2017, and those we have just suffered, the argument has been repeated over and over again: that most of these accidents have been due to inferior conditions of labor. Therefore, as to the just demand of prevention: let the more strict measures of prevention be established at work. And second, strengthen the inspection. We have 38 inspectors EAE and 13 inspectors. That you are desirous of strengthening the field of industry with more than one inspector, and for the prevention of dangers with six inspectors in the field. But, well, if we go deeper on the subject, we'll find surprises. It's not going to happen now. The point is that there are 44 of the inspectors transferred here to EA, but 6 squares were empty! It's the only one of those six! Why aren't the 44 inspectors working if you ask them over and over and over if you say that the inspection should be reinforced? In the case of the inspectors for the prevention of dangers, the state ought to regulate this figure. The inspectors consider the indispensable figure, but apparently we've been sleeping at this request. According to what we've learned, we don't see that new figure coming up for 2020. Is that so, Mrs. Chief? Can't we do anything from here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u130	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u131	Mrs Otamendi, you refer to precariousness, and when it comes to precariousness I have to talk about collective bargaining, and I have to talk about quality in employment and that, of course, collective bargaining has to be done. With regard to the number of inspectors, I must say that within the Autonomous Community there are fifty inspectors and sub-inspectors, plus fifty-two who belong to the rest of the State. Then...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u132	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Your time is up. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, the grounds for hiring preparations for the Healer's Service." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u133	Thank you, good noon. Madam Councilwoman, with our question what we wanted to know are the reasons why the brochure for the award of the Restorative Justice Service did not include the obligation for the new contracting company to subrogate the rights, working conditions of the workers who have been developing the work of intra-judicial mediation so far. We think – that is why we would like to know why they have not done so – that by making this decision, which we believe could have chosen another kind of position, they are leaving at the stand some workers that you yourself have pointed out that they have been doing excellent work in recent years. That is why we wanted to know about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u134	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u135	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Hernández, in the Department of Labour and Justice we manage, apart from this service, two other services of cooperation with justice, which are the Victim Care Service and the Criminal Management Service. In the case of the latter two, by means of contracts arising from the relevant public invitations to tender. The Intrajudicial Restorative Justice Service is a new service that has its earliest record in the intrajudicial mediation service previously called the Criminal Mediation Service. The current service has been provided since December 2012 in all courts in the Basque Autonomous Community and by agreement between the Administration and the company Adosten. The Basque Government has been committed to alternative systems to formal criminal justice since 2007, when intra-judicial mediation begins. I can tell you, Mr Hernández, that the Basque community is a pioneer in the state in this type of services, and that international recognition is notorious. And I'm going to stop for a moment at what mediation is. Mediation is a part or a technique of restorative justice, but mediation cannot be assimilated with restorative justice. I will tell you in another way: intrajudicial mediation, when determined by a judge, is a complementary measure and is incardinated in a judicial process seeking a mediated solution to the judicialized conflict. At the moment from the Department of Labour and Justice we have called a competition for the contract award of the Intrajudicial Restorative Justice Service, which is not going to perform the same functions as the current Intrajudicial Mediation Service. In order to improve service and to continue in line with the most advanced countries in Europe, when this new service is offered some regions of Norway and the Basque Autonomous Community will be the only ones that have established a restorative justice service in which, in addition to the mediation technique, other techniques, such as circles and conferences, that will contribute to the inclusion in the process of society affected by a crime or conflict will be used. I believe I have made clear to you the difference between the service that is currently provided and the new service that we want to implement when the open competition is resolved. In conclusion, Mr Hernández, we are talking about a new service, and this is a reason not to include the clause to which you refer on the basis.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u136	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u137	Yes, thank you, counselor. In our opinion, we believe that you are shielding yourself in a name change, among other things, to get the new contracting company to enter, as is often said, with free hands with regard to obligations with workers who were already doing that job. We think we're talking about the same service. You yourself have stated on more than one occasion that the trunk element of restorative justice is mediation, and the competition sheet precisely as it relates to mediation. And actually add a couple more goals that you have mentioned, circles and conferences. Therefore, we are talking about the same expanded service, which has been carried out by workers in this autonomous community in an efficient manner, as you yourself have said on more than one occasion. That is why we do not understand that your department, having been able to do so, because it could be done, does not include in this leaflet the obligation to subrogate the working conditions of these workers. We are convinced that it is the same service. You yourself have also said that the mediation service has been carried out since 2007, which previously had another name (criminal mediation), which was later called intrajudicial mediation... I mean, he's already had two names, but it's the same service, and now to expand it, he's changed his name. We feel good that the name is changed, but it is still the same service, and therefore there is no reason to leave those who had been doing this work at the stand. We would be in favour of these services being carried out directly by the Administration, not through agreements or through invitations to tender, but you have decided to award a service. That's fine with us. What is not right to us is that, being able to choose to collect the obligation of subrogation of these rights, they have not done so, and that is what we want to know. We don't understand why they haven't picked it up, because that's not reason enough. If, as you defend, it's a new service, perhaps you can be right – even if we don't share it – that you don't have to pick it up. But neither do they have an obligation not to do so. They could perfectly grasp the subrogation of the working conditions of these workers, who will surely remain on the street. And we are concerned about that, and we are concerned that today outside we have concentrated five unions (not one, not two), five unions of different colors, against a decision of a department led by a socialist councilwoman. And we think that you could have chosen a different issue and that you have placed yourself in the wrong place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u138	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u139	Mr Hernández, in my first speech I explained to you one of the reasons, the fundamental one for me, but not the only one, for not including the subrogation clause in the basis of the competition, but I will explain to you others. With the passage from contract to contract, by calling for the relevant competition, we want more transparency in the award, that the conditions of the workers are clearly laid down. That is why the requirement that companies must declare which agreement they will benefit from if they are service providers, something which was not required by the existing service agreement, has been included on the basis of the fact that the persons offering it have in fact been accepted to more than one collective agreement. However, I must say that, according to the consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, it is not for the contracting authority to make or agree pronouncements on the existence and scope of the subrogation obligation, which, if any, will occur outside the scope of the tender documents. I believe, Your Honor, that four companies were successful in the competition, which was impossible when the service was launched in 2007, as there was no experience in this area in our community. Don't have the slightest doubt that our goal is to offer citizens a new and better service, managed by the best professionals, and that they have decent working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-02.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Next, I shall read an institutional expression: "The institutional intelligence of the Turkish attacks against Afrin. "In the last few days, Turkey attacked Afrin in the region which lies in the north of Syria, and, besides the attempt to enter the country, he made an attack of air, leaving many civilians wounded and killed. This wandering city has taken thousands of refugees and banished them from war and from the Al Nusra and the Daessh groups. This military operation of Turkey is carried on without provocation or aggression, not on the coast of Syria or country. "We ask Turkey to immediately stop its military offensive. We also call for the urgent revival of the dialogue within the framework of the Geneva talks on Syria, involving all parties, including the Kurds. "Besides, we confess that the struggle against Daeshen is accompanied by the first line of struggle with the security of Europe, and the instability which the attack of Turkey will cause in this area is a serious threat to the security of the whole country. The silence or activity of the European Union or the community of nations cannot be admitted as an option. "To the European Union and the Union of the United Nations we demand that these attacks should be terminated immediately." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four.
