ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of Joseba Egibar Artola Elberte, the members of the legislative party, made to the president, hoping to fill up the calendar of work in the absence of transfers." Please be quiet. It's your word, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u1	President Urkullu, good morning. And the rest of them too. Good morning, everyone. We heard you've got your appointment closed next week with the new President of the Spanish Government. The themes, the environments of the automatically, the economics, the state model, and the agenda that belongs to our daily life. Even before now, they'll be the themes they've brought to the President, and I'll have a new thought, because the new president is Suárez and then Calvo Sotole and then Philip Gonzále and later Aznar and then Rodríguez Zaparch and then Rajoy, and that's the same subject. It is perhaps the best thing that a new President can do, that the former have not done, that is, to perform the state of mind and of his whole state, because there are few who can believe that in this case there can be a law of organic nature. What would come to us if, for example, we were to think of the law of the Earth by force, if half were applied, and not the other half? Or if the rules of commerce were applied by half, and not by half? Or the Code of the Circulation to which we all drive, if half applied and half weren't? That would be chaos. For what happens to our Common-wealth, is, that there are many other parts of it, and that the Common-wealth, being an organic Law, is, or is preserved, or made perfect. Then, as you have this calendar, and in that direct meeting you will be our representative, and then you will inform us of it, I wonder what your hopes or hopes are to begin or start an arrangement or a constructive conversation, how you see this situation. We know what will be more or less the subject; and, by the hand of this hope, you can almost anticipate a step. That would be the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Egibar, I hope you can fulfill the employment calendar demanded by the Basque Acts and set up Spanish Governments for once a clear plan to complete the entire state of Guernica. Anyway, it's best to remember that we don't start from scratch on this subject, as I've already said, the report about transfers that are to be done in 1995 was published and at the time they were 54 transfers. In 2010, the Social Party and the Eucalist Party Jultarian party signed an agreement in Congress with the United States. He agreed to a report about the negative consequences that Guernica wasn't fulfilling the state of Guernica in New York 2015. 2016. The proposals which had been shared by the Social Party and by the Jelt party of the Euzians were made by Pedro Sánchez to the thread of his essay. This is the last day's program of statemaking received two specific commitments. One, a defence and demand of a confession of self-interest, and the second a demand to carry out the transfers of power which are now to be done. On September 27th, 2017, we accepted the report on the transfers that were to be done. In all this case, they get 37 transfers, and the report has a constructive character. That means if you have an opportunity to reach an agreement, the transfer will help you direct. Now I think that the way to the conversation has been opened, so that if both parties have the will to do so, we can get positive agreements. Next Monday I will raise with the President of the Spanish Government, yes, all the questions of institutional relationship between the two governments, and I will do so starting with those issues that have a greater consensus in this Parliament and between the Basque institutions. The first concern – let me say this – is to contribute to economic recovery and the generation of quality employment opportunities and to this end, it is essential to consolidate in the general budgets the training programmes for the qualification of employment developed through Hobetuz. Support for industry and the productive economy or employment policies or the Youth Guarantee Plan are also priority objectives. In the area of full compliance with the Gernika Statute, we find a broad internal consensus. The aim is to ensure that the timetable of work requested by this Parliament is met and that the Spanish Government sets a certain horizon for the outstanding transfers. The report adopted on 27 September last year, 2017, referred to the self-government presentation and the presidency of the previous Spanish Government, is prepared with a constructive orientation, trying to facilitate the viability of transfers. On the other hand, it is important to move forward with a new model of State. In this sense, taking on the plurinational reality is a relevant first step. It opens the door to a shared diagnosis and a new model based on mutual recognition, covenant-based relationship and concertation. Finally, we also have a broad consensus on the need to put an end to the exceptionality of prison policy and to open a stage of construction of normalized coexistence since the collaboration between Basque and State institutions. I find a new provision and look forward to progress in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. The second theme in the theme list: "To question, the members of the Members of the House Pello Urizar, assembled to the President, the President of the Spanish Government." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u5	Good morning, everyone. My first words will be here today to accuse the murder of the woman in Asparren and the third injustice which happened at Navarro. The first of these was a brutal violation of the team, the fact that the latter and the rapist have been released by the finances as a mere sexual abuse. With these decisions it is indicated that violence against women can be very cheap, and that it is certain that the murderer of the woman who was found murdered yesterday at Asparen. How many are too many? We believe you. President, next Monday you'll have a meeting with President Peter Sánchez of the New Spanish Government. We've been able to read and hear something about the issues you're going to take for the last few days on the media and you're going to get what you haven't been able to do during the past few years. The Socialist Party will have a lot of change in some of the mouths of the Spanish Government, but at least it doesn't guarantee us. The experience of the past teaches us something that it may be stopped in a simple change, and that there is no visible alteration in the Basque People. However, it seems logical to us to discuss the new situation directly with the new head of Spanish government, and I would like to ask you what your purpose is, in this new stage of the new stage, to renew the model of relationship between the Basque Autonomy and the Spanish Government? Will you take advantage of this model of relationship to establish the new status required by the community?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Urizar, you told me about the failure. I think it would be all right to remind you, for instance, that we have succeeded in renewing the Echonomical Covenant, and also of the five years of the Cupid. On the other hand, you asked me if the meeting on Monday will take a step towards a new model of political intercourse with the Spanish States. For the moment, I tell you, the first step to get a new kind of relationship is to have a relationship. And so this first meeting is a step, a step that will take a good turn, I'm sure. And with this, I think, we are agreed in several respects, in general, on the first meeting. And considering the activities and declarations of your team, Mr. Urizar, we may say that we agree in at least three areas. One. The Spanish Government has opened the door to a new age in every sense, and the vote of your party has helped to open that door, and you have trusted President Pedro Sánchez's program. Two. The Spanish Government has shown that it is interested in the conversation to arrive at the institutional relations between the two governments; and even your party has been pleased to have the Spanish Government prepared for the conversation. And three. The Spanish Government has begun to use a new language when speaking about two themes which are very important to Euskade. I mean, self-taught, and when you talk about prison politics. Your team praised the new Spanish Government attitude too. So we are facing an opportunity, and there's no doubt, Mr. Urizar, that we'll do everything we can to make use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u9	President, it seems to me that, instead of explaining your intentions, you have told us what ours is and not whether we should come here." I asked you what yours are. Nevertheless, as you know, in self-generacy, we are treating of different parts of the foundations of the new state, and those which have hitherto been admitted are formed in two criteria. One is that the end is to create a new state, and not only an adaptation of the present state. And the second would be that the principal characteristic of the new state will be equality. That is to say, the relation between Euscadi and Spain will be identical with all the consequences which it can produce. By a democratic principle, it is evident that the ideological diversity of this people may be handled; and I believe that we unite in this, that all political projects may be placed in the same degree. The only limit must be the citizen's will. You know very well that the key lies in political will and not in the question of so many legislations. The law is to give way to the will of society, and not to deny it. I'm truly telling you, Mr. President, I really hope you'll let Pedro Sanchez know this at your meeting. We are speaking of more than one simple transfer of hand, of rights to us as a people. Lehendakari, the agreements we are achieving in the self-government paper are progress in achieving a new status for Euskadi. A status that has to be based on an equal to equal relationship with the Spanish State. The democratic principle allows us to manage the ideological plurality of this people, putting all political projects at the same level. The will of citizens must be the only limit, the political will must be the one that enables progress or blocks it. And legality can and should be the guide that enables the will of citizens to be fulfilled. We sincerely hope that you will transfer to Pedro Sánchez the commitment of Basque society for self-government, based on the right to decide, a right with a deep democratic root that receives also democratic treatment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Urizar, it seemed to me in your first speech and in your second speech, and above all in this second one, that you did not pay attention to what Mr Egibar asked me and the answer I offered you, as regards the intentions with which I am going to the meeting with the President of the Spanish Government. In any case, and not to repeat myself, I have also responded to what your positive assessments have been. Look, your own group has highlighted the new language of the Spanish Government in dealing with the issues of prison policy or the position in relation to the future of self-government. And you have mentioned political solutions. Sounds to you, doesn't it, Mr. Urizar? We are faced, I believe, with an opportunity because recognizing the plurinational reality of the State is the first step in discussing a new model of state to which I referred in my first speech, a model that is based precisely on the assumption of the different national realities and that facilitates the path of a new status of self-government for Euskadi and a new model of concerted relationship with the State. You've spoken of steps on the self-engine team. I, however, insist that we have the first responsibility in this legislature. Firstly, it depends on our ability to make a new political state for the Basques. And that's the first step to take, the first step, Mr. Urizar. This arrangement will be more and more strong here in the legislature, and we shall be able to obtain this new model of relation to the state which we so much desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "Ask me, Lander Martíne, the Congressman of the Podemos team to the president, in the ruling order on the future of La Naval Fleet." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u13	Good morning. My first words are to regret the new murder of a woman that happened yesterday and also a new unjust judicial decision. In the end, it makes clear that a thorough review of justice is necessary, which is blind to the rights, demands and needs of women. Lehendakari jauna, I ask you today about the role of your Government in the situation of the shipyard La Naval. As you well know, this yard is in difficulty for its continuity. We therefore ask you what steps your government will take to ensure the future of La Naval, its auxiliary industry and associated employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, rather than what measures we are going to take, I would also like to begin by replying to you that the Government has played a very active role in monitoring the situation in La Naval and not just in this legislature, Mr Martínez. Starting from the last legislature, the situation is very complicated, especially after the company was declared in competitive bidding in October as a result of losses accumulated since the financial year 2016. I can assure you that we have been in constant contact with all the agents: competition administration, shareholders, workers, shipowner, creditors and financial institutions. The aim is to contribute to a solution to a situation that I reiterate is very complicated. On 15 June, following a complex negotiation between the shipowner Van Oord and the six creditor financial institutions, an agreement was reached to complete the dredging of the Vox Alexia ship in La Naval. If the agreement is confirmed, and this is what is currently under discussion, an appropriate solution will have been achieved for all parties. The final agreement would guarantee a 20-month workload for the direct staff of La Naval and the auxiliary industry. In the event that the new scenario is confirmed, the shipyard would resume the activity and gain the time needed to find a definitive solution. It is not easy because of the profitability problems of the yard. The Government, as you ask me, will continue to actively contribute to making this solution possible, something that requires the involvement of all parties to seek new investors committed to a viable medium-term industrial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u17	Lehendakari, I take it from your reply that for your Government there is no priority to fully involve itself in the activity of La Naval, with its auxiliary industry and with the direct and indirect employment that it generates. We are extremely concerned about this position and the Government's lack of incentive for an unbridled defence of the industry in Ezkerraldea. It is true that there may be a continuity in the construction of the only ship left in the quarry of La Naval. But, however, the uncertainties are too much to leave these strategic industries in the hands of the market. I regret to say that we have come to this situation in part because of the lack of involvement of your Government in this matter and I will give you a number of examples. In October, the departure of the Living Stone cable yard to be completed in Santurtzi. In February of this year, the exit of the dragon Vox Amalia headed to Cantabria to be finished there. In March, the loss of the Baleària ferry contract, which would have allowed the long-term productive activity to continue. And also, to top it off, with the remaining dredge, as established in the pre-agreement between the shipowner and the banks, the shipyard will no longer manage the contracts with the suppliers. They reduce income and this puts the auxiliary industry at risk in the continuity of more than 2,000 jobs in the Left Margin. The activity in the shipyard has been reduced to a minimum: three-four ships in progress pending when La Naval enters the competition. There is only one left, Drax Vox Alexia, when for optimal performance of the facilities it is necessary to have three ships in process simultaneously, and contracts have been lost. Maintaining activity temporarily is not bad news in itself, but it is not desirable either. What would be desirable would be for the government – for its government – to really get involved in the next challenges ahead. The yard still has to leave the creditor competition, shareholders have to be held accountable, and much work remains to be done, work in anticipation of the crisis management that should already be done or at least planned and is not. You know that it is not necessary for the company to exit the creditors' competition for financial support and equity participation from the institutions. It's not something we made up, Mr. Urkullu. They gather the feeling of the staff and the unions, but above all they gather a management experience that already exists, an experience that shows how only public support can support the funding that this strategic industry requires. Only with public support is there a capacity to boost the the contracting that interests the Basque shipbuilding, only with public and social financing can be avoided the disaster of management that has occurred in La Naval. Anticipate, really work to plan the public continuity of La Naval. Don't have the attitude of waiting for them to knock on the door to act. His government has been playing down the fleet with La Naval for months. We are still in time for one of the major industries in the Left Margin to not go to pieces and it is his Government's responsibility. At the moment it seems that this lehendakari did not want to take the helm of the largest shipyard in Euskadi. He is in time to show political commitment to the people of Sestao, to the people of Barakaldo, to show that they have solutions. Don't let these workers drift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, since we are in the last full session of this session, I invite you to take advantage of the summer months also to review all the previous full ones of control in which we have talked about companies in crisis and also about La Naval. In any case, I can assure you that at this very moment a discussion is taking place on the shipowner's board of directors, with the positions found, and that the Basque Government has sent a letter to the positive part of that board of directors in favour of the construction of the dredge or ship, and so has the committee. The Government is committed and active in seeking and attracting new investors to ensure viability. The Government has endorsed the Parliament's statement of 11 May, which calls on public and private institutions and all parties to take full responsibility and to work together to find the best solution. We are hopeful that the dragon will be built in La Naval and that, as I said earlier, we will have 20 months for a viable and stable exit. That's right, it's up to us to act rigorously and responsibly, which is what you don't want to understand. As you know, aid to firms in crisis is prohibited by the European Commission and the Directorate-General for Competition has already warned us that it will act against any state aid. Mr Martinez, I have told you before. I'm sure you'll keep in touch with all the agencies, even with the workers' representatives. They're gonna do a built-in project to find new investors. We're all working for La Naval, and if the deal stops, we'll have 20 months to get it. Look, as with any business situation in crisis, we have fully accounted for it after full. A few months ago, for example, the problem of the CEL company was raised. Today, thanks to the collaboration of all the actors, CEL has a viability horizon. The Government will remain in contact and with an active role in all cases of companies in difficulty, I can assure you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Euscal Socilists of the House of Environments, Land Planets, and Housing Department of Housing, Plannings, and Housing Departments. " Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Urban regeneration is one of the objectives that is perfectly reflected in the Housing Act 2015. A project, a goal especially focused on recovery, regeneration of vulnerable neighbourhoods, a project that goes far beyond what can be the improvement of accessibility, environmental improvement, sustainability, energy saving or the recovery of new public spaces. It goes much further, because it does not only affect the habitability or improvement of the living conditions of our citizens, but it also leads to training for employment, commercial revitalization or even to a boost to the sector dedicated to the rehabilitation of housing. Your department has experience in these dealings. You as a counselor also have it, as at your previous stage in that same Department you promoted urban regeneration and housing rehabilitation projects in several neighbourhoods of Euskadi. Specifically, one especially successful, such as that of the Mogel district of Eibar, which somehow laid the base or laid the basis for continuing along that line. And that is also a clear example of what must be inter-institutional collaboration, collaboration also with the neighbours of those neighborhoods and the strengthening – why not say so too – of neighbourhood associationism. On the 15th, his department presented, together with the Bilbao City Council, an agreement reached to address an urban regeneration project in the Bilbao neighbourhood of Otxarkoaga. An ambitious project which, in some ways, also demonstrates the momentum and commitment of its Department for these projects. I would therefore like you as a counselor to explain to us what this project of regeneration of the district of Otxarkoaga consists, as well as what plans you intend to develop in this exercise your department in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, as you rightly say, the regeneration and renovation of the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods is one of the axes of action of our Department and this is not only because the Housing Act marks a clear bet by intervening in the already built city and renewing its old buildings to make them acceptable and energy efficient. We do so above all out of political conviction, because we understand that an advanced and inclusive Euskadi is not compatible with the assistance of urban areas that remain outside of modernity and social cohesion. And that is why we are updating the inventory of vulnerable neighbourhoods, addressing a number of indicators such as the age and condition of buildings, accessibility, income, employment, health, people's age, energy efficiency, etc. And in parallel, we have already started to act on two lines. One is the development of a comprehensive intervention plan covering all necessary actions in the long term. And in addition, the launch, in some of these urban areas, of pilot experiences that serve the rest as a demonstration of what the integral regeneration that we are proposing involves. Of course, as you said, all of these operations will only succeed if we address them, as they are being done, in close cooperation with the affected municipalities and at the hands of the neighbours and associations living in those neighborhoods, listening to their needs and providing them with the appropriate help. In 2016 we started with the neighborhood of Coronation in Vitoria-Gasteiz, last year we took the first steps to start the interventions in the neighborhood of Txonta, Eibar, with 221 housing units, and Txomin-Enea, in Donostia-San Sebastián, with 156 housing units. And last week, as you have commented, we presented together with the Bilbao City Council and neighboring associations the pilot project for the neighborhood of Otxarkoaga where it is going to act on 240 houses. We will have a financing and support plan so that no one stays out for lack of resources and neighbourhood offices to inform neighbors, channel projects and manage aid as a single window. In the coming months we hope to close the intervention operations for the Aramotz neighborhood in Durango, for 128 housing units, the Iñigo neighborhood in Loyola, in Irun, for 178 housing units and the Esperanza neighborhood in Lasarte-Oria, for 160 housing units. That is, by the end of the year, the current operations will affect 1,433 housing units. Integral urban regeneration is intended to go beyond the rehabilitation of buildings in terms of accessibility and energy efficiency. It also involves the renovation and recovery of public spaces, improved access and the re-urbanisation of degraded areas. In addition, we propose to undertake measures to boost social cohesion, entrepreneurship and training for employment, commercial revitalization and the generation of economic activity linked to rehabilitation work, because we consider that, although very important, a neighbourhood is not regenerated only by renovating old buildings and the urban environment. The physical environment is basic but it is also important to drive activity to achieve the goal of a modern and inclusive society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team for the president, a chain of human beings organized by our Hand. " Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You see, last June 10th a chain was organized by the Gure Esku Dago platform in favor of the right of self-determination, which united the three Basque capitals. In that chain and in that festival that was held that day participated the president of the party to which you belong, which is the support of the Government, important positions also of the PNV, top institutional representatives of the Basque institutions, all belonging to your party. It was received by the President herself of this Parliament, where the representation of the Basques resides and which seems to have to be a parliament that represents us all. We have also come to know a fact that causes concern as to what may be a coming future, approaching Euskadi. Here in Vitoria a contribution was asked to the bars that would like to support this movement. In return, they said they were going to decorate them, that is, they were going to label the good and the bad, the friends and the enemies, the ones they support and the ones they don't support. And so, that behind that seemingly festive, joyful movement, there is an intention to divide, to start a path of rupture and of course to label the Basques, those who are nationalists, those who are not nationalists, those who believe in Basque freedom from their point of view and those who do not believe in it. I'm worried about that, I'm worried about it, I've seen it in the past and we're also seeing it elsewhere. And I think it is your responsibility as a lehendakari to explain to us here today what your position is with regard to that risk of division in Basque society, what you are asking for and what guarantees it will give that we will not start a path of Euskadi rupture.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, on the unwritten question which I am now verbally asking in the rostrum, I have already answered it and I believe that my facts demonstrate my commitment to the objective of social cohesion also in a normalised area of coexistence. In any case, and in relation to the question that you have put to me in writing and which you have started with, look, it is not for me to value the participation or not of institutional representatives in the human chain of Gure Esku Dago, and I do point out that in all cases it has occurred with absolute transparency, naturality and civic responsibility. I respect the one who has decided to come and the one who has decided not to, and I ask you for the same respect. And with regard to the letter you have also spoken about, it is fair to acknowledge that the organization itself immediately disassociated itself from this type of behavior and asked for public apology. Therefore, we do not generate interested polemics where there should be none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u29	The problem, Mr Lehendakari, is that when you talk about social cohesion I have believed you. The facts deny him. I have committed the naivety of trusting you and I do not regret being naive. But the question I'm asking myself now is: What reasons do we have left to support them? What reasons do I have for continuing to trust? They have elected a majority and formed it in this Parliament, in the self-government paper, to design a sovereignist status exclusively with EH Bildu. You two alone excluding your own government partners and the rest of the House. They have also sought and built a majority not only in Vitoria, but also in Madrid, to overthrow the government with which they had just agreed. A week later they also built that majority. They haven't been betting on stability. They have sought a weak government, to which you will go on Monday to pass the bill, to give it the agenda, to mark the duties of the nationalist project in which they are embarked. And I wonder: What reasons do I have then to support you? What reasons do I have to trust you? Everything you said about stability has been denied. You have chosen, you have edged us. We certainly seem unimportant to you, but this is the question I ask myself today. And the answer I am giving is that I have no reason to trust the PNV, that I have no reason to trust your Government, that the project you are carrying out is a bad project for Euskadi, which is a project only for 17% of Basques who support independence, and that it is really for me today a cause of sadness in this legislature, that this session should end and that after the years of collaboration – and I am sorry to say this – I have to say that the People's Party has no reason to continue to trust you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, what does this have to do with Gure Esku Dago? Good. You've stopped trusting me. Have you ever done that? Yeah? If I had ever done so, I will tell you that I am guided by the implementation of the Basque Nationalist-Socialist Party coalition government program in Euskadi, and I am guided by the fulfilment of what I have committed. And what I have committed is the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country approved between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party and supported by the People's Party. And that's what makes me like lehendakari. The fulfilment of the commitment to the coalition government program and the fulfilment of the commitment of the draft General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and I give you my word that I will fulfill it. From there, all your doubts and incognites I believe are derived from what has happened in the Congress of Deputies. But the best reflection of the cause of what has happened in the Congress of Deputies is you have in the internal debate that you now have to elect the President of the People's Party, Mr Alonso. Do not look guilty in other political formations about something that affects you and only you, the People's Party. In any case, he also spoke of the self-government presentation. And I will tell you, and also linking it to what has been the claim of Gure Esku Dago, that it is worth remembering that this Parliament does have a paper focused on making a diagnosis of self-government and putting forward a proposal for its deepening and updating. And this presentation has also received the approaches of Gure Esku Dago, as has those of many others. The presentation is at a more advanced stage, because the objective is to reach a broad agreement, and that responsibility is also the responsibility of the People's Party, Mr Alonso. Of course, I think to a greater extent than Gure Esku Dago, which was the reason why you were asking me. We have heard the voices of society, and now, Mr Alonso, this representative Parliament, this representative Parliament, must define an institutional proposal, agree, agree and get it ratified by Basque society. It is the task that belongs to us who represent Basque society and for whom we have to respond. I do not think it is up to me, I insist, to make other assessments in relation to the accusations you have made. My commitment is, government program, fulfillment of the given word, fulfillment of the proposed budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Jose Ramone Becero Carollo, united by the law of the Podemos team to the president, about the role of the Tecnalia euscal firm in destroying the National Industrial Technology Institute of Argentina." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u33	Thank you, Mrs. President. President, chairman of the department, members of the legislature. Mr Lehendakari, the Tecnalia Research & Innovation Foundation is leading a European project called ELAN Network, through which 31 European and Latin American technology centres are working together to increase the economic presence of the European Union in that region of the world. Within this framework, Tecnalia has developed a restructuring plan for the National Institute of Industrial Technology of Argentina on behalf of the Argentine Government, which will lead to the privatization of this centre with 52 technology centres and more than 3,000 people in its workforce. Do you think that this performance of Tecnalia, complies with the principles established in the Basque Internationalization Strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u34	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments and congressmen, good morning. Mr. Becerra, first of all, you've confused a lot of things, and I think it's a matter of detail, because you've talked about a lot of things, internationalization, a European project... They have nothing to do with it. On the subject that you are talking about, we began to comment on certain aspects in the Argentine press at the beginning of 2018 and as members of the patronage of a private foundation, Tecnalia Research & Innovation, I will give you information that we have. Coinciding with the institutional visit that is carried out from the Ministry of Production of Argentina in May 2017, this Ministry comes into contact with Tecnalia, is received by Tecnalia at his request, within a benchmarking A meeting took place in July. From there, there is also another meeting in Argentina. It is decided that it is Tecnalia, by the Argentine Ministry, because it has suffered a process, as you know, of fusion, which they understand is interesting. From there, Tecnalia makes an offer, which is 297,000 euros, to proceed with this work, and delivers the conclusions of its project in January 2018. At no time is anything associated with a restructuring, but rather a project in which we have to analyze what INTI is going to be from the point of view of services to industry, I repeat, and of R+D+i, a center similar to what is currently Tecnalia. From there, the Argentine president himself, within his restructuring policy, decides to restructure the INTI. Nothing to do with the work done by Tecnalia, but I'm not saying it. From the Ministry itself, a letter is sent to the president of Tecnalia and I will read what he says to make it clear. He says: "I wish to make it clear that at no time has it been our will to use the name and prestige of Tecnalia as a justification for the decisions we are making and that it is only up to us. It should be said that the restructuring of INTI staff has never been part of the scope of the work entrusted and carried out by Tecnalia. And I take this opportunity to express our satisfaction with the work done by Tecnalia and with the result obtained in this collaboration. That is why we also want to continue the relationship within the framework of our alliance." It's pretty clear. They are not my words, they are words of the Ministry regarding the work carried out by Tecnalia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u37	Mrs Tapia, I thank you for your words and, from the respect I have for you too, I will continue to address the lehendakari because this affects not only the question of the performance of Tecnalia, but the image of Euskadi. That is why I have mixed it with the Basque Internationalization Strategy. You say Tecnalia is a private foundation. Tecnalia is part of the Tecnalia corporation, of which one of its senior positions is vice president and in the patronage of the foundation are members of the Basque Government, of all the deputies, of the three main municipalities, of Kutxabank and of the UPV. Therefore, it cannot be said that Tecnalia has nothing to do with this Government. Quite the opposite. You said that what Tecnalia did was simply a report related to R+D+i. That's not true. Technology, through your masterplan The Argentine press, to all that you have mentioned to us, called it "use a corporate language between light and hopeful". But basically, what Tecnalia was proposing, all that Tecnalia was proposing, is what the Government has launched, in this case the leaders of the National Institute of Industrial Technology and the Government of Mr Macri. But the problem is that Tecnalia puts the means and then the government executes them, and that has a cost. And that has a cost that, the day after the presentation of this plan, led to the dismissal already of 270 people. One of them, I'm going to show you the photo, Yamila Mathon, with her daughter, because not only have we had victims here who are elderly people. We have also had boys and girls, 30 boys and girls who have also been dismissed from the day-care centre of the technology centres where their parents worked. And here what we have is that Tecnalia, with her performance, not only speaks for them, but speaks for a whole country. To this day, Tecnalia is acting abroad in accordance with principles of the Basque Internationalization Strategy that say exactly: "Euskadi's internationalization must promote a development that will meet the needs of Basque society and be compatible with human needs in other countries and territories." What do we do by privatizing a technology centre that serves 5,000 SMEs in areas such as food, natural resources and energy, which are fundamental to a country's sovereignty? I tell you today that the principles that Tecnalia is defending are that of insolidity, that of opportunism and that of profit. And I also say that, if Tecnalia is doing that with a brother country like Argentina, which in its day welcomed many Basques and Basques in difficulty, all I can tell her is that, in my opinion, in that of our group and in that of many people, Tecnalia does not represent us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u39	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, if you prefer to listen to what the Italian press says in front of what from the Ministry and from INTI is sent as information within a letter that I have read to you and which also says other things that I will also say to you... Our request was to develop a master plan for the transition to a modern centre of research and innovation by applying its experience and technological knowledge, in no case associated with the restructuring, as I have told you. But if you prefer to do demagogy saying that Tecnalia has done what you haven't done, there you are, there you are with your problem. Tecnalia has done the master plan entrusted to it, the Institute and the Ministry fully agree to continue collaborating as I have mentioned and Tecnalia has done a crucial work at this time to define what the research institute has to be. From there, the Government will decide how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interrelation, made of the Internal development of Economics of Economics, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the member of the Popilative Groups of Economics and Subjugations, and of the Euscalal field of agriculture and that Age of Agel Foods, upon the ephyxiciency of 2030th and sustainable developments. " Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Councilwoman, I would like to ask you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party about the Basque agri-food sector and its efficient contribution to the 2030 Agenda and the sustainable development executives. It is the purpose of the United Nations to work to ensure that all people in the world have the same opportunities for development and well-being. In 2000, the United Nations adopted eight goals to meet the main needs of the poorest. Fifteen years later, 193 States members of the United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda, which sets out sustainable development goals. A new horizon with 17 goals broken down into 169 goals that require the collaboration of civil society, the public and private sectors, and whose success will mean a more friendly, equal and habitable world. The agri-food sector and its various activities have a high impact on the world, as it responds to one of the basic needs of the population, which is access to food. For this reason, the agri-food sector has a direct impact on the well-being and health of consumers, living conditions and the work of millions of people. Its production and transformation systems have an impact on social, economic and environmental sustainability and therefore on each of the 17 sustainable development goals also has an important impact. There are at least 30 challenges and targets affecting the agri-food sector in relation to sustainable development goals. This has been identified at the level of the Spanish State by a group of food chain agents who have worked deeply on this. And they have reached these 30 major challenges and goals that affect the agri-food sector. An agri-food system aligned with the SDGs should not only ensure access to safe, healthy and quality food for the population. It must properly manage the production, extraction, processing and distribution of natural resources; respect the environment in its activities; promote and provide varied and balanced and healthy diets; generate economic and social benefits; and work under sustainability criteria and reduce food waste, which only in Spain is wasted 7.7 million tons of food per year. Of the 30 cross-cutting challenges identified throughout the agri-food chain, related to SDGs, the largest number are linked to the objective of ensuring patterns of consumption and sustainable production. Also to end hunger and achieve food security and improved nutrition, and to promote sustainable agriculture, in addition to promoting sustainable transport optimisation, the calculation and reduction of the digital footprint, promoting sustainable water management, energy efficiency practices, efficient management of natural resources in agricultural production processes and the protection of biodiversity. All these issues, challenges to compliance and their attribution to sustainable development goals from the agri-food system, we must drive them among all, citizens, administrations, businesses, the public sector, the private sector, and working locally to achieve the goals at the global level. The Basque Government presented the Strategic Plan for Gastronomy and Food of Euskadi 2017-2020 as one of the main stakes of the Executive for this legislature. A plan that, from my modest opinion, has been the result of good work, very close to the different sectors and that, from a profound diagnosis of the reality of the current moment of the food chain and gastronomy, detects the strengths, weaknesses and trends towards the future where one should work. A plan that wants to work for what it calls the four those of Basque food and gastronomy: safe, healthy, unique and socially, culturally and environmentally sustainable, from primary production to food consumption, through processing, distribution, marketing, to reaching the gastronomy. A plan, I really want to tell you, Madam Counsellor, without the courage to flatter you, but because it seems good to me, which seems real to me, it seems very transparent to me, very didactic. I think it's been a good job and I'm not worried about recognizing him. This plan has three supporting annexes. The first is the various strategic plans of Euskadi that relate to the Strategic Plan of Food and Gastronomy. I think it's important that relationship and that bond. The second annex also has the power supply value chain, with very interesting data in all its sectors. And there is a third annex that has global trends and challenges according to FAO. In this annex, there is a small reference to sustainable development goals, and he says that achieving the sustainable development goals requires a new governance framework. And here it refers to global considerations, generic, governance, responsible government, achieving the goals, which is key the work from bottom up, which needs to mobilize national resources, basic criteria. And our question, our interest, from this framework in which we believe this tool, this perch, is whether you are thinking or is the intention of the Government to develop a framework of government for the Basque Autonomous Community to meet the challenges, of the sustainable development objectives for the sustainability of the agri-food sector, that is, how we will contribute and what governance we will give in the agri-food sector of that Basque Autonomous Community to contribute to achieving the sustainable development objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u43	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, first of all, I have to thank you for your words because you and I usually discuss a lot, but I am glad that on many occasions we can also reach agreements. It is true that the strategy, the sustainable development agenda, has many contributions that can be made from the area of gastronomy and food. While it is true that, from the Government, and as presented by the Lehendakari, we are working on it not only in the agri-food sector, but also participating in a series of joint actions. Governance, therefore, is indeed trying to do so together from across the Government. However, if we observe that within some of the actions envisaged in each of the 17 objectives – and I will comment on some of them – it is observed that it is necessary to establish concrete governance for the subject of agri-food development. We have no difficulty in starting a reflection in that regard. What are we doing to participate in this set of actions right now? Well, from the Department and from the Vice-Adviser of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Industries, what has been done is to establish a series of actions that can contribute to each of the 17 objectives. That's how we're working on it, but, I insist, I have no problem analyzing it in any other way. We have no doubt that these are the actions that we have to do, yes, but that they are not the only ones and that we will probably have to undertake some more. What are they? Well, we have allowed ourselves to work, I insist, on each of them. If we are talking about putting an end to poverty in all its forms in the world, what we are trying to do is to promote actions of social and labour contribution since, for example, the Temporary Work Care Plan, which you are well aware of, guaranteeing adequate working and wage conditions for all workers, with particular attention to immigrants and women, and an action plan in which we also do not only work as a government, but also incorporate into parliaments, agricultural unions and, for example, an entity such as Caritas. On the second of the axes, that of combating problems associated with hunger and achieving food security and nutrition improvement and promoting sustainable agriculture, in addition to the strategic plan to which you referred, we are working with sustainable cultivation practices within the RDP, which you are sure to know, also highlighting the Plan of Collaboration in Food Security with the Department of Health, another of the actions, not the only one. If we are talking about ensuring a healthy life and promoting the well-being of all people and in all ages, we are also setting up campaigns with the Department of Health to promote healthy life, healthy lifestyles, healthy eating habits, encouraging these eating habits also since the participation of Elika, Azti, Hazi, with programs and initiatives in conjunction with the Department, or supporting the adoption of efficient protocols in matters of food safety and hygiene, which, as you know, have also existed some problems and we believe it is very important within our food strategy, or verifying compliance with all regulatory conditions in this regard. In the fourth pillar, ensuring inclusive, equitable and quality education, promoting learning opportunities for all, we have to train different actors in the value chain, and also train all those people in human rights who are going to attend to those who go to temporary work. These are actions that go in any case directed to each of the lines of action and that some of them also collaborate in several of them. If we talk about achieving gender equality and empowering women, we obviously have the Statute for Women Farmers we recently commented on. We had not made the effort perhaps enough to put it into effect and it is our will and we are already putting it into operation now so that it will actually contribute to that equality between men and women also in the work of the field. In the sixth of the axes, which is to ensure the availability of water and the efficient management of it, we act with all the measures arranged from the PDR, from the IBER, but we also introduce new technologies in agriculture that allow us to use the minimum of water to obtain maximum yield and encouraging different technologies that allow us among all administrations to make that efficient management of water with a very clear participation of URA. In the seventh of the axes, which is to guarantee access to affordable energy, there we are enhancing in a special way the use of renewable energy, but with projects associated with biomass, as you also know certainly, that allow us on the one hand to contribute to the development of renewable energy and on the other hand to contribute to generating or using that biomass that we are not currently using and wasting. It therefore has a dual objective, and introduces energy efficiency practices in all agricultural practices at the moment. If we are talking about promoting sustained, inclusive economic growth for all, here is one element that did not exist at the moment and that we were working on, which is the Sectoral Plan for the Prevention of Labour Risks for the entire food value chain. We are currently working on it, and we hope to have it in operation as soon as possible, which covers up to 2025, and we believe that it is also a distinguishing and generating element, on the one hand, of employment and, on the other hand, of improving these conditions of employment. You also know the Gaztenek programs, Itsasoratu... all those programs that allow us to generate employment in that area. If we talk about sustainable infrastructure and industrialization and promote innovation, there are also programmes now functioning and we will continue in European programmes that will also allow us to work with other European regions and that will improve the situation at a somewhat more international level and not just stay in our own contribution. There, both the food cluster and the technology centers play a key role. In inequality between countries, the actions being carried out from the department are not our own, but we work with the help of External Action, since in all these development cooperation programmes we also believe that we have a primary role. Last year's visit, for example, when we were in Colombia led by the lehendakari, we talked about working in those areas that within the peace process in Colombia were also going to be in serious difficulties and where we could bring from the agrarian development positive experiences. I think we could extend – and I don't want to bore you – in each of the actions, which is how it has been defined right now since the government that we are going to work each department on each line. But, I insist, if you consider that we can do this from the PEGA, we can also analyze it and see if there are different actions, actions that we can carry out and that will improve this situation. And in any case, of course, at your full disposal to facilitate all the actions on each of the 17 axes, but I will not continue to develop for that, so as not to overextend myself and not bore you. That is the way we are working, from fully horizontal development across the Government and bringing each and every one of us to the Sustainable Development Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u45	Indeed, Madam Counsellor, in the basics and in the way we work, we will agree because, of course, from the People's Group we have a very important interest in, first of all, believing what it is to achieve the 2030 Agenda, believing the objectives, and believing that in all our action we must be the vision of the objectives. And to insist on it, because if not, time passes and in the end we do not achieve these challenges that we have on top. It is true that the challenges you have been making coincide with those 30 challenges that I told you this group of companies has worked at national level. It has identified them, and some with more intensity than others, but, in the end, they are the ones that are mainly grouped around the objectives that the agri-food sector can contribute. And a very important part is the challenge of production, responsible consumption, all that is production, transformation... There is a very important area from our point of view, and that of the value chain, that chain that goes from the field to the plate. Almost everything is business, of one size or another, and it is very important to provide all these companies with information on sustainable development goals. From our point of view, we must start by raising awareness of the objectives and communicating the challenges we face and the need for work and collaboration of all administrations, citizens and the private sector. We understand that the company is a very important part of this whole process, because it is different in size or different characteristics, but in the end it flows into a very high percentage of companies. And, in addition, any company with a vision of the future and responsible with the present and with the future is in line with the objectives of sustainable development. And that too we have to transmit because it is added value for themselves. Therefore, comprehensively, with an adequacy of production and consumption systems, they should be able to implement or develop sustainable development goals. And another very important part is that sustainable development can also contribute to the consumer, a consumer who is informed and aware of what he is doing, because we understand that with the habits that the consumer is acquiring he can change many aspects, and that too seems important to us. In short, we have the idea of presenting a motion that contains some basic elements or basic actions that we consider important and that the rest of the groups can contribute. Let us come out with a document in which we are all involved in some way, and let us touch on those aspects which I believe we should work to ensure that these objectives are reflected in the Government's strategy, but on which I believe we must have an important impact. And that when we think from this House and from political action, we have taken it very much and are very aware of what each of the decisions we make or propose involve, and that that goal of achieving sustainable development goals is somehow implicit in our daily action. Therefore, thank you for your response and tell you that this strategic plan seems important to me because it refers to all the plans that affect the agri-food sector, with which in some way it links to all the activity that at this time or the tools that the Administration currently has, and it links it to a very important part that is the agri-food or production. And as I say to you, this whole area, which is from the field to the plate, is a very broad area of action. And thank you. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u47	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Indeed, Mrs López de Ocariz, we have to believe it and we have to believe it all, and in raising awareness, perhaps we have focused more on society right now, starting with schools and trying to carry out awareness campaigns in all these centres. Starting not only from how we should eat, what are the most appropriate consumption habits for health, but also from the point of view of responsible consumption. And when I talk about responsible consumption, we're talking about avoiding waste. Well, there are plans in all that direction, awareness campaigns. And beyond all this, dedicated to schoolchildren, dedicated to society in general, yes there is a specific area of the companies, I agree with you, that perhaps we have untied it in each of the axes, but that could also be considered as a company, from the point of view of quality of conditions in the work of all employees, of how this traceability occurs in the manufacturing process, of how to incorporate regulation, of how to improve quality, of all compliance with all that regulation that exists, that is very strict in food and that we sincerely believe that we have to improve some of the aspects that we have at this time, that are already being done and perhaps should be considered this way. For example, in fishing, I believe that our targets are precisely some of the most involved in sustainable fishing, in avoiding overfishing. I believe that there are a number of actions that can be improved, but which are dedicated to it, and I share with you that, in addition to what is production and transformation and arrival to gastronomy and to what we have every day in our dishes, of course, companies have a key and crucial role. And all the institutions together with society and the business fabric, the productive fabric, we have to be aware that we have to contribute in each of the actions we perform. I therefore thank you for the contributions you are going to make, and we will certainly consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Oster Galviro, members of the EH Collectors, the chief physician of Economics and Sub-Sertains, the necessity of renewing the Eukadical Power." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u49	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, today we've come with a profound concern, not with an invitation to the dialectical struggle. The European Union has long been engaged in a discussion of the reopening of reconnaissance energy. The discussion was urgent, because in a battle against climate change, it is inevitable, as opposed to energy. 2 a lot of emissions, not much, to limit a lot. The coal, oil, and gas are burning 80% of European emissions. Negotiations have just ended, and a decision has been made that will take great consequences. The virtual goal is stopped at 32%, which will be reviewed if this target can be raised in 2023. This is, at least in 2030, the total amount of restructured energy in Europe will be 32% if no more. This will bring in hundreds of billion dollars' investments. In the Spanish state, there has been at least a great change in the last few weeks, at least in the attitude. PSOE's new government, arrived at the end of the negotiations, and defended more ambitious objects than what was agreed on. You can imagine, even if you can see it, that something can be moved in the state. But even if we look at the state by chance, our concerns are here, in the state of Euskal Autonomy in Erdigo, in this case. You know as well as I do that these data of retal energy production, compared to Europe, is far away at 7%. And thanks to the reconnaissable Spanish electricity, the re-tractal consumption goes up to 14%. But evolution is even worse. For the past 10 years, we've barely stepped forward. The renewable generation in Euskadi in 2010 was around 7%; the renewable generation in Euskadi today is about 7%. If we were a state of Europe, we would be number 25 on a list of 29, that is, fourth in line in renewable generation, and we would be in position 19 in renewable final consumption. However, our responsibility as emitters of greenhouse gases is great. In fact, it is above the European average and that is why our situation has a dramatic point. And I'm not going to begin with a separation that doesn't lead us anywhere today, but it's obvious that the planning we've made hasn't taken us to a good position. The 2010 strategy had a renewable target of 12 % and remained at 7 %. The 2020 strategy had a 14% renewable target. We're a year and a half, we're still around a 7 %. And Strategy 3E-2030, which is in force and which guides the entire energy policy of this government, has a renewable target of 21% by 2030, with a local generation of 14%. The trajectory does not invite optimism but I want to draw attention to a key aspect of this strategy and is that it is made on an assumption, with a reference that has completely changed. It was based, and the references are there, on the 27 % renewables proposed at the outset by the Council of Europe. So the challenge is much bigger. And there is something that makes things even more complicated, the new target of 32% renewable in 2030, which can be revised upwards, is for the whole of Europe, has no country-specific objectives and is binding. That is, those places where those figures are not reached, will bring down those who do, acting in an insolidary way. So we cannot keep a renewable generation target of 14% by 2030 while Europe is going to try to reach 32%. If this be so, it is a simple question: Don't you think that the biological strategy is out of date that we should rebuild it all the time, so that we don't have to stay away from Europe for congengency? Don't you think we should put all our machinery in that direction?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u51	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, Mr. Otero, I'm not here to argue either, so I'll try to answer you. At first we can share the diagnosis and it's true that we see what we've received, of 32%, in a good-natured way, it's proper, if we really believe in debonizing it, it's something we need to do. But we see also that there is a question which you have mentioned, and that it is said in general, how it is that we distribute it in states, and not only in states, but in how it is divided into countries, as in the case of Europe, as in the case of the autonomists. And not only that, but we need a regulation because we've seen what's happened in a state class for many years up and down with regulations, which has a terrible influence on production. So I think we should also consider these things. In addition to what I was saying that the target is generic and that we share it, 32%, I do want to make reference to what we are proposing locally, because you ask me what we are going to do locally. Well, our target was somehow triple, and I want to remind you. On the one hand, increase energy savings and efficiency, because we believe that we also have a lot to do in this area and that we should contribute to reducing consumption and, on the other hand, improve the situation in terms of renewable energy parameters. Secondly, we were also thinking about reducing dependence on petroleum derivatives and, therefore, untying ourselves from all that. And there, in the transport sector, we have a lot to do and we have already begun to take steps to ensure that public transport at least becomes electric and that we also act not only from the point of view of renewable energy, but from the point of view of generating less emissions. We believe that that is also feasible. If we move on to renewable energy, the target set for 2030 is 21%, very far from 32%, but, as you said, if we look at what we have done and what our trajectory is, I think 21% is tremendously ambitious, tremendously ambitious. That I'd like it to be 40? Yeah. But if we can reach 21%, I think we will make a very interesting contribution. Why? Because we need to take advantage of all the resources that we have at this potentially renewable time, we need to seek to improve that renewable generation possibility that we do not currently have. And I'm going to give you a data to think about the dimension that this implies. In Euskadi we would need 530 megawatts of photovoltaics, i.e. some 640-650 million euros of investment at today's prices, occupying 420 hectares, for example, to increase only 1% in renewable energy. Then trying to reach that 21% of the place where we are if we only considered, for example, photovoltaic energy, would be impressive the effort that would have to be made. And almost not as important is the investor as the hectares and the amount we would need. And we're going to think that we could do it on roofs, on industrial polygons, as we're considering. We're having a hard time getting to that 21%. We need to review the plan we have at the moment in two years and see if we can come up with other objectives in that review. But of course, today, until I reach that two-year review and probably what the plan to do every five years is, I would not at this time be much more ambitious, because that 21% – I insist, with that data – I think it is already very important for Euskadi starting from the situation we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Appeal, mine of the Kortjas, a member of the Engugus and the Chief of Police of Society in the United States, in matters of employment to answer the strong propositions agreed upon." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u53	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, chief physician, good morning. We've got the last check-up before the holidays today, Chief Artolalote, and once more we'd like to talk to you about jobs politics. The results of the Deutobameter have just come out, and, once more, unemployment and labour, the conditions of work are precisely present as the chief concern of the eucalyptus society. We hear that everything is better and better, but as to work, the people do not seem to share or share that sensation. In the different discussions we've had about the operation, we say it's a labour trader with our lights and lights. That's how the facts show. It is true that the unemployment has improved, that these last fat data are positive, and that they are apparently positive even to the future, that unemployment decreases, that the number of consumers increases, and that these are the lights that have our labor trades, isn't it? But the dark ones are very dark, Mrs Artola generous. For, by the hand of temporary employment, it proceeds from the hand of prerogative. Temporality, the state of young people, the instability of men and women, the influence of long-lived unemployment... They're behind the downfall of this unemployment. The evolution of employment and the labour market puts us in a situation that is highly dependent on life projects and the good living of the Basques and especially the Basques, because yesterday the LAB union provided data for which we know that women have an annual salary of 7,700 euros lower than men's and that we also perform 78% of the partial jobs. And, of course, it also greatly limits the possibilities for emancipation of younger people. A situation to reverse if, as Councillor Azpiazu told us this week, the Government's commitment to sustainable development is intensified to ensure sustainable growth that generates higher quality employment opportunities. It brings us to a state which is to be reduced to a condition which is to be reduced to a state of cultivation, and is also the preparation of life, which does not agree with this concept of tolerable development. And in this again the importance of public employment policies is shown. For any government, employment policies are one of the most important public policies, and you have identified them as well in your compromises and even in your government. It was already in 2018, that 2017-2020 Employment strategy had been materialized for jobs, when this government had or had its intentions, commitments, proposals, and behind words and intentions, we met with a weak and unlife strategy. It's a minor ambition because, by the way, the government's commitments are based on the purpose of dropping unemployment to 10 percent, and, in fact, we all know for our demographic character, economic development, you can go home, we can go home, we can go home, we can go home too, this government's practice is of no use and strategy is of no effect. We have seen, indeed, that this aim is almost to be fulfilled on the first principles of this strategy. And besides, we have not seen that the employment policies of this government, which are received in this strategy, are of the rank we have in hand. In matters of business, the answer to this government seems to us weak. We see a government that responds late and actively behind that strategy again. Besides, we've identified the changes and options that are involved, and we've never seen any way to face them, or to make a stand for them, in this strategy. In front of the new Paradigms, we have seen that you have difficulty recreating, Mrs. Artola generous. As far as it goes, we see a government that has the difficulty of giving this qualitative leap. We have seen that the instrument, the profession, is essential to the management of these employment policies, and that this government has difficulty in changing its course and making changes to it. We've seen you give us a month's data, agreeing to those facts, even though you insisted that there were some problems to be corrected there, or that you were concerned about. You have mentioned long-working people, you have mentioned young men, those differences between women and men, and we have seen that there has been very little practice in that sense in 2018, in order to change or upset them. We have seen that in these days, as far as the scope of action in 2018, there have been a certain number of cynications, that the profession has produced a certain amount of cyclones, but we have seen that they are very much alike, we have no perceptible alterations in this conviction. On the way to create high employment, we have seen the government in a strategy that has been fortified in the usual operations. We have met with a government of more leadership, and without any firmness, Mrs. Artola generous, and, in these days, we have been talking about state-states in the direction of the Basque State, and several subjects in relation to the state which En Collector has organized. And we talked about the economy, and we talked about the prosecutorship, the convent, the concert, and that kind of thing. And there, an expert, mentioned the Cheshire Cat, Alcia en el País de las Maravillas. Cheshire is that smiling cat that finds Alicia when after falling through the hole leads her to a world full of straphalar beings, and meets that smiling cat that is also a little sinister and decides to ask her on the way back home, and Alicia asks her if she could tell you, please, which way she has to go to get out of here. The cat responds that it depends, to a large extent, on where it wants to get to. And Alicia answers that she doesn't care much about the place either. Then the cat answers that then it doesn't matter much how far you go. And then Alicia answers that whenever she gets somewhere she's worth it. And then the cat answers, very wisely, "Well, you'll always get somewhere, if you walk long enough." "La Compestion, señora Artolari, es tener claro a donde queremos illegar." What a direction. That's the key. If this goal is to place unemployment at 10%, if we look at the strategic targets marked around jobs it can be any good. We're gonna get there, but we're not gonna dump anything. We think it should be a new goal. We aim to set up policy and strategy for life, that's our choice, and that's the most important thing in the job police. In this sense, we believe that it is necessary for a trader with more quality. For a trader who provides opportunities for revolutions of inequality, for a trader who seeks to secure the welfare of women, for a labor trade that will be useful to the projects of life. We've got more jobs, better jobs, and we're the object of a job trade that can offer everybody an opportunity, right? In front of that, we've had a constructive attitude, we've had an proposed attitude, we've had different projections, and in the past few months we've brought different initiatives to this legislature in the direction of the jobs police and that direction for the markings of that direction, and we'll go on for the next few months. During these last few months, the Parliament has taken three important agreements in the sphere of employment which is the axis of public politics. Contradicted EH and approved by all teams, these agreements, agreed with the consent of all, will affect the three essential areas. On the one hand, in the employment plans which determine the end, contents, and directions of the employments of the year, and in the other, a promotion of quality, placing on the basis of these plans. On the other hand, in the sports stations of the young men, proposing the exact measures of fighting the preparation of the young men and of an impact of a decent work. And finally, in the sphere of unemployment, in the state of long labouredness with disturbing data, to change the proper strategy of treating them properly, and ad hoc. All this is essential to us. It is essential, my dear Artola generous, to answer the hinges of this people in a proper manner, and we must know, in all these agreements, and in those ways, how you will place yourself in them. And that's why we want to know what measures you're going to take, Mrs. Artolazbal, because I'm sure you're going to be able to answer the solid proposals agreed on by the Parliament in the business, and to place his practice in that direction, and of course, what a reflection it will have in the budgets we're going to have to discuss in advance of September. Because even without the budget, plans can be planned, but jobs need money and economic effort. We therefore desire to know how this government will reach that direction, which this legislature has agreed upon, and which it has obtained by extensive agreements, and how it will be able to maintain itself by doing it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u55	Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Kortajarena, we do know where we're going with this. In addition, the analysis we want to get to has not only done so, but we have done so with the participation of all the social partners, trade unions, already since the last legislature, in which it was analyzed and placed in a Basque strategy for employment, and we do want and know what we want to get to. What is also true, and I share that with you, is that quality is one of the objectives which, apart from the quantitative which, as economic operators say, seems to be that we will achieve it before the end of the parliamentary term, we must continue to make progress in the area of the quality of that job that is being generated. And you have also heard me say and have been nothing self-congratulating, at the time giving data on unemployment, that we have to work in the field of temporality and the wage gap, and also with the people who have the greatest difficulties. I recognize this, it is true that we have to make an additional effort, and I sincerely believe that we are putting initiatives in place to be able to eliminate and reduce these disadvantages. The Employment Strategy Plan 2017-2020 and in line with the Employment Framework Programme and the Economic Revitalization Programme, as well as the Basque Employment Strategy 2020, envisages as the first objective the promotion of quality employment, and this is reflected in that document. And we have that specific focus on the most disadvantaged people and, in particular, also in the field of youth. As this strategic objective envisages, we are also talking about employment integration through local and regional employment plans, and we are starting from shared basic approaches, Mrs Kortajarena. You and I think we share the diagnosis. What we do not seem to share, in principle, is how we want to achieve those goals. But I believe that with the contributions made in this House and the agreements that have been reached, we also have improvements to the documents that we have put forward as a government. We have tools to help us achieve these stated objectives and it should be remembered that most of the agreements adopted in this House in relation to the field of employment have already been collected, and we have implemented and strengthened policies with concrete measures, which I will tell you about. We will enhance the dissemination of the results of the forward-looking work carried out by Lanbide and other relevant actors of a territorial and sectoral nature, so that all relevant labour market actors can learn about employment trends and opportunities to define, plan strategies and plans consistent with these trends and opportunities. We are also incorporating into Lanbide's forward-looking work a specific line linked to the identification and dissemination of new opportunities that can be exploited through the generation of new business initiatives both of market and of a general social nature. The effects of ageing of the labour force in terms of net employment balances on the labour market will be disseminated, distinguishing between replacement employment and new job creation in its components for the main branches of activity and occupational groups. Qualitative foresight components are being worked out and developed that enrich quantitative advance information and will have its origin in models of active participation of social actors and representatives of productive sectors. And, also, the qualitative perspective with origin in international models, institutions and experts is contemplated. A specific programme is being put in place to support, preferably in regions and municipalities with a special incidence of unemployment, pilot projects to generate and improve employment at local and regional level, with broad participation and institutional consensus and relevant economic actors. All this is aimed at new solutions to take advantage of the opportunities identified in the forward-looking work. In this regard, on 12 June, in the Governing Council, we approved a call for EUR 22 million for these local plans, which are a tool for promoting employment and areas particularly affected by unemployment. And they have a special impact on groups of special vulnerability. In the call that we have approved for this year, important developments have been incorporated that we intend to serve to better achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. The programme is already known to you but we were also clear that we had to facilitate and support the groups who had greater employability difficulties. Therefore, the projects presented in the call must necessarily comply with the following recruitment commitments: 30 % for persons benefiting from GIR, 40 % for women, 15 % for persons over 55 years of age. And this is a change from the local plans previously approved. In addition, we are evaluating and analysing the various calls for aid made to it from Lanbide and incorporating improvements to them. For example, in the Lehen Aukera programme, which was also a good programme but which sometimes did not attract the full attraction of companies to enter into these contracts, we have carried out an analysis and proposed a number of different criteria with the aim of making it more widely used by companies. That is why we have incorporated four improvements. The first would be that applications are already submitted with formal contracts, that there is a new formula for the selection of candidates to promote and facilitate the transition from the field of training to the world of work. For the support and management and monitoring of transition processes, we have defined new eligible concepts and have also increased the amounts of the longer-term contract grant to promote greater quality and stability. We have expanded the amount of money earmarked for these contracts. Similarly, a system of good practice information and pilot programmes is being defined in Lanbide, and we are also going to work and are already moving towards a system of evaluation and satisfaction. We are also carrying out a study on the economy of care, as a necessary starting point to establish specific actions, to improve professional qualification and recognition and to improve the working conditions of people engaged in this professional activity and this entrepreneurial activity. And we will incorporate a specific evaluation of the impact of the actions developed in the Strategic Plan 2017, to see what are the collectives that are also important to us and to you, such as people with disabilities, people who benefit from GIR or people over 55, in relation also to youth and gender equality, and how we need to keep moving forward. In addition, we have carried out a detailed study dedicated to the profiling of the collectors we have on the lists of unemployed in Euskadi, together with Sara de la Rica and her team, and the objective of this work is to provide a precise diagnosis of what is the reality of the unemployed in Euskadi in 2017. We need to know what we have, how we have it, so we can then implement it. Then, the study has been strengthened in relation to the unemployed registered in Lanbide. The first is the distribution of all unemployed persons in the three territories, by sex, age, maximum educational attainment and duration of unemployment. Secondly, a comprehensive profile has been drawn up of all the unemployed in the Autonomous Community and we have separated six groups for this purpose. Three for men, three for women. Depending on age, young people under the age of 30, between 30 and 45 and over 45 to 65. And for each of these groups, of these six groups, the following elements are shown: their distribution according to the highest educational level reached, Primary or lower, Secondary and Higher, Higher Vocational Training or university studies, the time that they have been unemployed, variable that we present in three intervals: less than three months, from three to twelve months and more than twelve months. Its average monthly rate of exit to a job, since we observe individuals repeatedly, we define that an individual goes out to a job if in the period T and the following month this unemployed person is occupied. For this, for each group, we are calculating the average monthly outflow rates to a job. And their situation also, lastly, as regards the benefits they receive: if they have any benefit, none, contributory, assistanceal or GIR. In addition, next Tuesday we will adopt a new Youth Guarantee call at the Governing Council, which is a European programme with the aim of facilitating and helping younger people to start their career in the field of employment. And these initiatives will be incorporated, as agreed in this House, into the next operational plan for the 2019 financial year. In view of the above-mentioned GNPs, which are from the current part-session, as you have said, and which we have carefully analysed, it is clear that we are in compliance with the agreements, that we are making progress, but that we still have many things to work on. And the goal that you and we have in promoting employment is a space where we have a lot to go and a lot to work on. Yes, we are concerned about the quality of employment, about temporality, about the wage gap, about youth, and I believe that the measures that we have already implemented at the moment plus the measures we have put in place, plus the evaluation, we will have them incorporated into the 2019 budget so that we go not only by reducing the amount, but by improving the quality of employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u57	Yeah. Actually, Mrs. Artola generous, I'm glad. I'm glad you're able to get in touch with this legal agreement, even if you're in the business business business business business, and you're serious about those proposals made here. that he had been studying and pointing at priorities. And I've seen Alicia a little on your word and I've seen other plans to be hopeful. It's true that I haven't yet a clear idea where you're going to lead us, what that space is. Or maybe you know where you want to go, but there's difficulty in the way because the way you're going isn't easy at all. We are faced with a state of pre-sistentity which has been established, and the paths which are marked here are difficult, and the revolutions of it are a very stable situation. The plans which have come here have come late, and this projection has not been and we have seen the difficulties of finding out what was coming and what was going on, and we have also seen the difficulties that were opened up. But now, if we look at them and get on the road, it's not a bad plan. But we need to consider that we're on 2017-20th strategy, and you're already making a statement here. There have been some changes, many of these changes are not great innovations, they are slight changes, but they will have their effect. You mentioned the possibility, but in the first choice there are many things to say and it's true that the first choice that's offered is still poor and that it's not likely to give them a chance. Or when you have marked the priorities in these local strategies, it is well to mark the priorities, but what this legislature required was a work plan for these collectives, and a strategic and distinguishing work. Perhaps those are accounts which can be deduced from your examination in Sara de la Rica. So that's good, too. But what happens is that there has been a danger throughout the whole of this process, because it must be said that certain decisions have been made about the job, in order to advance that field of employment and the politics of the job, which have upset the camp, and that agreement signed by Confebask. This arrangement has broken the space for the conversation which was already sufficiently touched, and has put us in great danger of the privatization of pretty employments, and all those which are here set up may be left empty, if they do not respond to the general interest of Confebask and the interests of the firms in Confebask. We need to make a projection. You mentioned it, too, but we need to make a projection from the public. We need to see what chances this country will have in years to come. The elements, which some see, which can be detected from the public, and which are still new, and which are not yet perceived. But that's the effort to create these new possibilities, and we have to force ourselves into this production. We need the interview back, it's essential. We must get it back, we must protect this conversation, and we must also create new alliances. That's what you were talking about about in the idea of making a social economy of quality. There's another big place for you to create new alliances. He asks for determination and demands public leadership. Don't let your department count on Confebask. It's summer, Mrs. Artolaland, and in summer, you know, even grades arrive, and, according to the Deustobarmeter, the town members of your employment police had been suspended by the authorities of this government. We'll say today that we give you a hopeful suspense, because it seems to us that this legislature has taken the initiative of this group to mark a direction that we've seen today that you've shared the way, that you've decided to do so in case you've had enough of time, but that you've planned to keep going through this way and move ahead, that you've got a chance to pick up that in the budget... So, in the recoverys, in September, we'll put batteries between us and create a new market.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u59	Eskerrik asko berriro, president anderea. Mrs Kortajarena, you and I do aim to improve employment. Employment at the moment is one of the biggest concerns of Basque citizens and, therefore, as long as there is a person in this situation, the policies we do will not be enough and, of course, I can understand that citizens do not know if we are suspended, but they do at least tell us that we have to continue doing more and we are in it. Retrieving social dialogue, of course, is one of our objectives and priorities. We did not break the social dialogue, what we intended was to continue to advance to improve employability, and to do so we made an agreement with the employer, with that goal. Of course, we never thought that it would have the consequences it had and, of course, make it clear that we are going to try to regain that social dialogue because we believe in it, because we understand that it is the only way to address problems, with solutions shared by all to move forward. We are also working in the field of the social economy and, therefore, I have met with the representatives of the cooperatives, with the aim also of not only talking to Confebask, because Confebask is a part of the employer or part of a group of entrepreneurs, but there are also other business formulas that in Euskadi, as you well know, are important and certainly for us too. We have never put employment policy in the hands of Confebask, and indeed what we intend to do is work with all the agents, both trade unions and businesses, with the aim of further improving in the field of employment. And on that path, I don't think we're very wrong because even though – it's true and so we recognize it too – we have to work on the quality of it, there is a substantial improvement in employment and the data are objective and there they are. Contracts are being encouraged and the objective of meeting this incentive for this first year has been far exceeded with respect to the objective we had set ourselves. A total of 1,868 jobs have also been started for persons under 35 years of age. In this year 2018 we anticipate that there will be 3,270 posts that will be filled after the retirements of the holders of public places of employment. In addition, the 834 young people who have been hired by the various types of local employment plans continue to have these opportunities to move forward, and both the framework programme for employment and economic recovery and the strategic employment plan follow up and analyse all the issues that have to do with the groups concerned: in the youth sector, in the women sector, in the area of the long-term unemployed... But there are data that are objective. The unemployment and youth rate in Euskadi in December 16 was 16% and in May 2018 it is 15%. We're doing things and we've got results that have to encourage us to keep moving forward. In 2018, we also plan to facilitate access to the labour market for 550 long-term unemployed people through comprehensive actions accompanying job placement. And as for the quality of employment, which is something that you and I are very concerned about and very concerned about, within what is the axis of the strategic employment plan, we have already been working closely with the Department of Justice and Labour and the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, because part of the quality of employment goes through the conditions that workers have, and for that we need to do an analysis and research of them. And also with the Department of Development, because it generates or facilitates the opportunities that entrepreneurs have in investing in Euskadi. With regard to this quality of employment, we are also carrying out a specific approach to the wage gap between men and women together with Emakunde. And I conclude by pointing out that we are currently carrying out this mid-term evaluation of the Basque Employment Strategy 2020, that our intention is to bring it to the social dialogue table so that it can be analysed and improved with the contributions that all actors have to make. And it will also be a good time to correct and put forward what we all think is appropriate to move forward in the implementation of the agreements that have been adopted here and of the objectives that we have set ourselves as a Government and as a society to move forward in the area of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, The Tinisha Guanche Suáz Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Eplegu and Society, DBEri, the bad trade of the institutions, and the double-chtime of violence." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u61	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Before I begin to show myself more absolute repulses towards the Machist violence and specifically the murder of Sofia, the woman found yesterday. I would also like to show my full solidarity with all the women survivors of macho violence, who in the light of yesterday's events are more alone and unprotected. You're not alone, we believe you. And now, I'm gonna ask you a question. A single woman, two creatures, a survivor of male violence, with a 20-month restraining order, takes over the RGI, has a creature, returns with her aggressor – as in almost 100% of the violence processes – she separates and never comes to live together. Lanbide removes RGI for a matter of mere bureaucracy, because the motive is also changing throughout the process. Ararteko's resolution and already firm judgment, by the way, contrary to Lanbide's position. And in the meantime 16 months without charge. How are you going to fix this lady?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs Guanche, Lanbide does her job and always understands from the correct enforcement of the law. In the case in which you ask us, there are two clear and serious breaches of the law by the perceptor. As part of Lanbide's usual treatment with each income-guarantee, on January 19, 2017, he was informed of the rights and obligations that it implies to be a recipient of income-guarantee income and, as a result, signed an inclusion agreement that includes these terms in his inclusion itinerary, such as any income-guarantee income-gatherer. Also, his advisor from Lanbide again quoted him a month later, on 20 February, to follow up on his situation, which he did not attend. In the face of this breach of his obligation, he was still waiting another month for some explanation to be given, which did not happen, and in March he was provisionally suspended from the benefit. He also did not report the change of his living unit, as he changed his marital status and had a child without notifying Lanbide as required by law. This person therefore made two clear breaches of the law, which motivated the interim suspension of the benefit. He only approached Lanbide's office when that suspension occurred. Initially, this person received the Income Guarantee Income, as it met the conditions set out in the law, and the subsequent status of a victim of gender-based violence has nothing to do with the granting of the benefit. Any person with two breaches of obligation is subject to an extinction of one year and may not apply for it again at that time. And Lanbide, in that case, has not put in place the sanctioning procedure provided for in the current legislation, and has simply applied the deficiency period provided for in Law 4/2011 for cases of extinction such as that in this case. In this situation, it is important to point out that the court interprets that the reasons for the suspension of the service, that is, the concealment of data on its situation, differ from the reason for the extinction and the changes that have occurred in coexistence, in the unit of coexistence, is what causes the resolution in favour of the applicant. The court judgement considers it a claim as a result of a formal defect, and does not assess the merits of the matter. In view of this situation, in cases where a contentious-administrative claim is estimated by the judges, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, through Lanbide, applies the judgment of those judgments by proceeding to regularize, according to the content of that judgment, the amounts derived from it with effect from the date that is appropriate as indicated by the judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u65	Imagine that you go to the doctor, with a serious and urgent health problem, for example an appendicitis. The doctor tells you you can't operate if you don't deliver documentation. As good as he can take them. He forgets some, yes, he has pain, his children demand his attention. Imagine that she's admitted to surgery and when they have her on the operating table they tell her that you've forgotten a role, and we just realized she's going home. You've lost the right to operate on him. He gets up and asks, but why? Well, it's actually because you have two non-compliances, or because you haven't come on a date. Clearly you have a year of penalty. He has lost the right to health. What's ridiculous? This is what happens in Lanbide. A subjective right recognized by law is violated. That is why the courts have condemned Lanbide for his bad practices. And this is institutional violence. For a moment has Lanbide bothered to see beyond the file number? We know quite well that any change is communicated among the obligations, but do they not realize that this absence of communication can respond to a situation of vulnerability? There was never a cohabitation with the assailant. There was never a euro on your part to cover the needs, and you did know that. Thanks to Lanbide, the late-reported birth of a baby puts a woman in an even more precarious situation than she was living. 16 months without income. Where's the proportionality? Where is the exceptional situation of those living under the scourge of macho violence? If macho violence is not a cause of force majeure, please tell me, Mrs. Artolazabal, what is it? And explain it to me because I don't understand it and I can get the pain and the anger. The pain and anger of the message we are sending to women who suffer violence. A message that they are alone, that no one is helping them and that reporting is not worth it. And we can't afford that, Mrs. Artolazabal. A message that says Lanbide is not an alternative for them. And that his right to income security is not such, and they won't be able to count on him to go out and break up with the macho violence. I insist, what are you going to do to repair these 16 months of survival without economic income? How long is this woman going to have to wait? It is not worth criticizing La Manada's judgment and reproducing decisions, Mrs Artolazabal, which, in essence, put the same problem at the centre. We cannot rely on institutions to break up violence. Because institutions are also patriarchal. And please don't repeat that the law is for all alike, because even a first-rate student of Social Work knows the principle of equity and policies of positive action and knows that treating equal situations is the greatest injustice. The Ararteko told you, and you had the chance to bounce back and didn't want to. Explain to me too, please, why. Explain to me why Lanbide's lock. This Monday they told you on the street, you and Emakunde. Please stop looking somewhere else. Let's put the women in the center. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Guanche, it is already the second time that we have come up with a case similar to this Parliament, and I also think that you are using in an inappropriate way – let us leave it there – a case which, of course, also causes me an uncomfortable situation but which, in addition, these people who are perceptors of GIR have a number of obligations to fulfil. If you are telling me that people who perceive RGI are exempt from law enforcement, then of course we are not the ones who are going to do that reading. What is clear and clear is that there was an appointment that this person could have attended because his advisor was concerned about his itinerary of insertion and employability, and he did not attend. Yeah, yeah, don't worry that we talk to people and we know, we're aware of their problems. And he missed the date, we don't know exactly why. Because what she recognizes is that she forgot to come, she recognizes that she forgot to come. I am not responsible for what income tax collectors do, because they are the ones who have the rights and also have the obligations, Mrs Guanche. What I do want to say is that these people are protected by a system that, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Marcia del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popilagoic Groups of the Environments, the Plantery, and the Chief of Housing Houses, the bad quality of water in the Uribe and the bad quality of certain Gechician areas, and the red flag placed on by the contagion of many beaches." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, the press said on Tuesday, June 12, after nine days: "The effects of the strong water trumpets recorded on June 3 in Bizkaia and northern Álava continue to be felt in the sandstones a week later. 11 beaches affected by fecal contamination and no one has given an explanation of the cause. The Department of Health of the Bizkaia Diputation does not recommend the bathroom. The bathroom can pose a health risk," they said. There is E. Colí bacteria and enterococci at levels much higher than permitted. Something failed in this warning, because surf and kayaking children's courses were allowed in the first days of these events. The Water Consortium says that due to the storm on June 3 the municipal sanitation networks collapsed and this forced the depurator of Galindo to relieve liquid, in order to prevent the system from overflowing. That flow was added to that which the rivers were already carrying, without receiving proper treatment. And the citizens were wondering, what's going on? There's been no answer. How long is this gonna last? Depending on the weather, if it rains hard, if there is strong wind or strong waves, it will be cleaned before. And Mr. Arriola, what answer does your department have to this question?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u70	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Madrid, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ocariz, you ask us why this phenomenon has been generated and you yourself have responded. I mean, the truth is, you've taken away some of my work from me in this rostrum. Because, as you well know, as in similar episodes that have occurred on other occasions, the recorded pollution has its cause at the points of relief of the sanitation systems intended to evacuate the excess flow resulting from the intense storms that occur earlier this month. Our sanitation networks are mostly unitary, and under normal circumstances they carry industrial urban waste water to the scrubbers along with other marginal flows, but when there is precipitation, the entire rain flow that collects archae and conducts joins the wastewater. And if the precipitations are especially intense, as was the case in several days, at the beginning of this month, the systems are not able to absorb all the volume received, so that they have points of overflow or relief through which the excess flow is evacuated. These reliefs are provided for in the discharge updates of hydrographic confederations and are also provided for in the 2006 European Directive on the Quality of Bathing Water, and thus this Directive defines short-term to microbial contamination for reasons that are clearly identifiable and that do not normally extend beyond 72 hours after detection. And this is the case that happened on the Vizcaine beaches to which you referred, where you had to ban the bath or recommend that people not bathe, because of the presence of bacteria proper to the faecal waters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u73	Counselor, 72 hours no, 12 days. The cause of precipitation. It is striking, once again, that your department blames precipitation, as in the case of nitrates, for these situations. Counselor, Erega and Arrigunaga, the only two beaches in Bizkaia where the blue flag flies. A quality badge that for 12 days has shared space with red flag due to fecal contamination, by collapse of the sanitation networks, counselor. Because the discharges from the city halls of the environment and the cleaning control systems are highly deficient and dangerous to health, counselor. But these facts are not new, Counselor. This happens every summer, or summer periods, which is when the Department of Health regularly does water checks because the rest of the year does not do water checks. So we don't know what happens the rest of the year. We know what happens in the summer. And every summer there's fecal contamination. For example, in September 2017, there were four days, not 72 hours, and the Department of Health reported that it had detected high rates of fecal contamination, also in this beach area. With Ereaga and the environment, 2016, 2015, 2014. Counselor, something would squeal in all of this. Neighbors wonder, and no one has answered them. How is it possible that a few days earlier it was boasting that Gorliz beach had achieved not know how many quality European recognitions and now they are with the flag for fecal pollution, waving the blue flag? How is it possible that we have the URA pylon hammer demanding in Álava a large unique consortium for water management like the mantra that takes care of everything and protects everything when Bizkaia has a consortium and we don't know? That's not a guarantee of good management, Counselor? Yes, it is a guarantee of occultism, of non-response, of non-transparency, of ignoring the citizen, who is paying him. And, Mr. Counsellor, in addition to the above, do you have anything to do with the empty works of the canal of Deusto to turn Zorrozaurre into an island and the mud movement that is taking place in this area and the characteristics of these movements and muds?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u74	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u75	Mrs López de Ocariz, you know that the sewage system is not my department's competence but I'm not going to shield myself from that. He asks me, and I answer him and I tell him what happened. I understand that on this occasion, as on other occasions, the competent entities have acted diligently, the problem has been detected and communicated to the citizenry and a recommendation has been made by the Department of Health that people avoid bathing in conditions where the waters have a detected contamination. The situation is continuously analysed and is being communicated to citizens in the light of the evolution of these analyses. Therefore, you have to understand one thing, in situations that have occurred from precipitation earlier this month, there is no system that can endure without relief, there is no system that can endure, without relief. And what you have to do is to be coordinated and in fact there is a communication protocol between the Bilbao-Bizkaia Water Consortium, the Health Authority and the Basque Government in order to be able to act and predict, to the extent possible, the actions to be done by public administrations. Naturally this protocol has worked, it is also working on a new protocol with the Busturialdea Water Consortium, which can also progress to the extent that sanitation works in this area can be carried out, to the extent that they are being developed, with the deadlines set. Of course there are actions that are being committed and that are going to be committed. More storm parks will have to be made, such as the one being built in Galindo, and progress will have to be made in separating waste and rainwater from towns and cities, etc. But, Mrs López de Ocariz, when a flood situation like the one we had in the first few days of this month arrives, it is impossible for the system to endure. Only 111,221 cubic metres have been evacuated in the Galindo-Lamiako system. It's equivalent to 40 Olympic pools. Hey, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "Appeal, Leire Pinedo Bustate EH Collectors to Ogasun and Economics Chief, the measures to respond well to the new billings EAE's. " Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u77	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. On the 12th of June, 2019, you presented the principal instructions. According to your words, you're trying to strengthen the euscal match for a permanent human development that will produce basic services and more quality jobs for all people. A round, challenging line, Mr. Chief. A very great challenge. We know this is the first public step of the new law of budget, and so it means its importance to us. The courses are important, though, in fact, they are almost the same as the last year, and I dare say they are quite general. But it may be remarked that these examples have four challenges before them, according to the words which you have spoken in the Appendix: demography challenge, the challenge of education, digitalization, and the challenge of internationalization. This is the most remarkable nobidade of the introduction of these budget media, from which, looking at the budgets of 2019, we want to hear your instructions today, Mr. Subaz. In the next budget, we want to know the sizes that are gonna be taken by fun to respond to the main challenges in this town. The Basque Country collected a few challenges in 2018 in front of the ancients, and you remembered. A advanced and learned people, with the need of a system of education of quality, making it their business to arrive at the level of the advanced countries of Europe. Industrial and innovation, asking for an investment made in I+G+B, which is so essential to the development of the economy that remains below 2% of the Bar Raw Production. The prevention of work, implying the necessity of placing high-quality employment in the nest. The classification of social differences, not only by abolishing the reductions, but by expanding and compacting the protection system to the desktop. To enforce social services to ensure the rights, by showing the necessity of strengthening the public services which are weakened by reductions. And finally, the record of generations, asking for the explanation of all public policies to build a permanent and just model of society. These were the challenges which this people has to make to win the future, the challenges which have to be made straight in the direction. And seeing that this year's funk has gone on the way to settle the challenges, we see there's a way to settle up with the hinges we've marked. We have worked in the legislature according to the hinges which have been established in the United States during the 2018th of the United States, by putting forward suggestions to the desktop, and by seeking firm agreements. By agreements around the Eplegue (which corrects the general policy, such as marks the path of the younger generation, or a set of long-continued tasks) by changing the direction marked by the monographicgraphics around the demography, or by agreements that require new ends in I+G+B. There are other themes to be strengthened, and that's where we are. The need to strengthen and strengthen the housing policy, which is in the right direction, but is in vain to complete its targets, where the means of maintaining social services and pensions are introduced, the need to increase public quality services, to abolish or change the energy model, and to make a retrieval bet. A lot of responsibilities that we made proposals. We've sometimes made interesting commitments to this legislation, but we're still waiting for the strong, undeniable steps of fun. As you can see, Mr. Counsellor, from Euskal Herria Bildu we have followed the path we set out with the challenges we set for 2018 and for the country's future. We note that different surveys show that they are among the main concerns of Basque society: unemployment, decent working conditions, pensions and a long time. At Euskal Herria Bildu we are concerned about the so-called "food things" for people's day to day, and we will continue on that, no doubt. Because we firmly believe in the potentialities of Basque society, because it is our duty and because it is our commitment to citizenship. You have defined four major challenges to be faced in the 2019 budgets, major challenges, many of them aligned with those already indicated by 2018 from Euskal Herria Bildu, which clearly shows us a way to make this a better country. Social ageing, poverty, housing needs, reconciliation, emancipation, education, R & D+i, quality employment, strengthening of public services, renewable energy, sustainable and efficient transport, and sustainable and public water management are some of the issues to be addressed without delay. There are many of these issues that we have brought to this House since Euskal Herria Bildu in search of country agreements, which we have sometimes also managed to achieve. These are challenges, Mr Councillor, which require political leadership and a proactive attitude on the part of all, challenges that require firm steps, a vision of the country and a clear direction, challenges that this Government must define itself against. The national point of view, the leadership and the clear direction to be the necessary means of resisting the hinges, political and economic resources, Mr. Chief physician. You know better than you do how important it is to have the power to make decisions. The tax policy which defines a large portion of the budget entries is not trifling. After all, it is essential to define economic resources to meet the hinges of this people, and for this purpose we must go deep in the way of independence. As in so many other matters, the seeking of consent may help our people to build a better and proper future without living under Madrid. Mr. Chief of Investigation, how are you going to deal with the hinges you've defined? By what means will you challenge those who are so great? Are you willing to agree to the right path that comes from Madrid to the reality of our economy and the needs of society as it advances in self-organization? You know, and you know he's talking about removing the community's debts. What are we gonna do there? We'll have to say something. What about us? Is there anything we can't get, or what? And what about the expense argument, Mr. Chief? There is a new government in Madrid, yes, which seems to make different economic policies, and in a short time it will have to settle the expense situation and see the economic direction of this new government. But the most disturbing thing about me is how it's going to look. What message will President Urkullu take next Monday to the meeting with President Sánchez, which is so important, and which limits the powers of budget? You have to put it in the garden to strengthen our economic independence, to defend the means here obtained in response to the needs of our society, Mr. Chief. And the tax policy. What can I tell you about the tax policy? As PP said over and over after the budget joint, will you be able to get back to PFS? Are you following the pathpage of those who have been with you so far? What's to be done? What about the tax policy? I know, Mr. Chief, that's a lot of questions, I know that's a lot of questions that will determine the economic direction of this fun. Either follow the course of your former traveling companions or make any movement to respond to the hinges of this town. Mr. Chief physician, you'll have to collect EH, as you always have, to respond to the hinges of this town, ready to move.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u79	Mr. President, members of the legislature, officers. Mrs. Pinor, I must confess to you, knowing that you are interested and that you are an expert in this matter, this interpelation has not surprised me. In fact, I think it's very appropriate, really. And if you'll let me, I'll tell you I'll really appreciate it, because from now on the government has to make a deeper process for political reflection and budgets, and I hope that the groups of this Chamber will do so, and of course your team will. I really appreciate the tone of your speech. Sounds good to me. Now, surely, this music would have to be written some lyrics to see if we were able to sing it together. But, well, this, I suppose, is part of a process. Indeed, as you say, Mrs Pinedo, last week the Governing Council approved the budgetary guidelines for the 2019 budget. It can be said that we have given the exit gun for the preparation of next year's budget. A draft budget that will continue the path that we started last year and that is results-oriented, to effectively and efficiently address the four challenges, as I said, that the country has: demography, education, digitization and internationalization. It will be marked by the alignment of the government program with the United Nations 2030 agenda, as reflected in the Basque Country 2030 agenda. We want to intensify, Mrs Pinedo, the Basque bet on sustainable human development that guarantees essential services to all people and sustainable growth that generates higher quality employment opportunities. I think it's an inseparable binomial, the result of a person-centred vision of the world. These instructions have four challenges before them: demography challenge, the challenge of education, digitalization, and the challenge of internationalization. After 2018 p.m. starting the course of strategic budgets, we'd like to focus on the results of this year. The basic service for all people and the high-quality employment options will be strengthened by the euscal wager for the bearable human development. These are not just words, Mrs. Pindo, the government's commitment is strong. After starting in 2018 the path of strategic budgets, this year is intended to deepen in the orientation to results. I have the firm conviction that not only is what needs to be done right, but we are going to do the right thing. To this must be added the firm step towards equality, since for the first time technical standards are laid down and I think it is something important, that the concept of equality must be included within the main objectives of each and every department. The demographic challenge is transcendental to the present and future of Euskadi. This same week, I had the opportunity to participate in a summer course organized by the Eustat, which highlighted the worrying demographic situation and, therefore, we will be involved in policies and public spending. Policies that include actions such as strengthening the model of health care aimed at the treatment of chronic diseases, facilitating the implementation of vital projects of people in the best possible conditions, improving the adequacy of Income Guarantee Income to families with children so as to reduce child poverty, promoting a housing policy that facilitates access to decent housing for the citizens of Euskadi, improving parents'access to childcare services, promoting the emancipation of youth and a long and long term. As for the challenge of education, I defend it as the best investment a society can make. I fully trust that freedom and equal opportunities depend largely on education. Education must be of universal and inclusive excellence, must ensure respect for plurality and freedom of thought and belief, as well as human rights and the defence of diversity. An education that brings together all these attributes is an investment in social cohesion and sustainability. Euskadi cannot afford to dispense with today's young people, who will be the greatest of tomorrow and will sustain future growth and well-being. Similarly, scientific research of excellence is a vector of economic development that every advanced society must cultivate and develop through universities, research groups and centres of excellence. Digitization is the continued bet of R & D+i, assumed in the smart specialization strategy RIS3, as a guide to achieving economies of scale that bet on the fortresses of Euskadi. We need them to strengthen their global positioning as the node of the knowledge society and place in the world that offers local responses to the challenges that are global. It is about continuing to advance in scientific and technological innovation, facing the fourth industrial revolution through the industrialization plan, and supporting the digital transformation of the company. Internationalisation, for its part, is closely linked to three other areas: public investment in infrastructure, innovation with the commitment, as you know, to grow by 5% annually in the public budget in R & D+i and industry. In addition, it is committed to addressing the complexity of the environmental challenge through renewable energies, the evolution towards a clean, sustainable and efficient transport model, and the vertebration of Euskadi in a more balanced and sustainable territory. We will shortly present a document on public strategies and policies, linking this analysis with the development of a multi-annual budgetary economic framework that will complement these guidelines. It will take place within a horizon, as I said, multiannual, which transcends the legislature. As you can see, Mrs Pinedo, a whole series of policies, issues and commitments which need to be deepened and continued along the way. And I am sure, and you have said that, or that is at least what I have interpreted to you, Mrs Pinedo, that you share to a large extent the political and strategic philosophy that we have been proposing from the government in these areas. The way you said it, I think it's quite possible and now we need to see what we're doing together. I was also wondering about specific things on LOFCA issues. I sincerely prefer not to go into these matters, because I do not think it is up to us and I sincerely do not think that I should do so. What the central government could supposedly forgive, forgive, as it was saying, in the terms of debt that the autonomous communities have... They have a financial system that is LOFCA, which solves their problems. When we had the chance last year, we solved our own. We have a five-year law for five years perfectly approved and since that approval the system works and the institutional relationship with the central government works with all normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azpiazu, you've started with a good foot. I was talking about music and lyrics and I've heard a lot of music today, but I haven't heard the lyrics yet. I hope I can hear you and you know that I will listen to you carefully, as I always do. But you didn't get past the music today. I told you, and I told you in my first speech, the fact that this time you have marked four challenges, goes a little bit along the line of what my colleague Kortajarena used to say to the counselor of "let's set a path, let's try to define a path". You have started by marking four challenges, four very important challenges and which, as I have told you, in a way are aligned with the challenges that since EH Bildu had already been marking him since previous exercises. But the important thing is not just that we have the challenges, the important thing is what economic effort we are going to make to carry out those challenges, to deal with those challenges, those challenges that Basque society is demanding on the street: employment, pensions, social policies, education, fundamental for the future of this country, family policies, etc., etc. What I have come to say to you is that we need new balances in the budgets, new balances to meet those new challenges that Basque society has. That's what we have, that's what we have for the 2019 exercise. And what I wanted to know today was where you were going in that, how you were going to feed those challenges because, éta zuk badakizu, just like niretzat obsessio bat da, baisa baliabideak bear garrantzitsuak dira éta horregatik nire gallera. I will not enter into other communities. I only said that there is such a thing as it, and that we may perhaps have to knock at the door some time, what happens to us. And I told you there's a financial argument, and there were some agreements, and you know there's a disagreement in it, but it's true that there's another way, why not? Why shouldn't we do a road as far as we're concerned and as regards deficiency, in order to respond to our economy? From the reality of our economy to the reality of our economy. And if there is, there is. Why don't we? This government will be bold to talk about it or say, "No, that's what comes from Madrid, and begin with aquaí lo que se puede leer"? No. Let's make the way. Eta nik askotan esan dut, the main objective of public policies is the well-being of the society they serve. That is the main objective of public policies. And today you have told me many questions about the demographic challenge, the educational challenge and so on, including health policies. These are fundamental issues, but the problem is what about the cuts, for example, that exist in poverty policies? They exist, because they can tell us what they want, but the reality is that today there are cuts in poverty policy. There are cuts in social policies that are, from some, too long ago, too long ago, and all that needs and requires a firm response from this Government. And when I talk to you about firmness, leadership and a clear course, you know that this is not new things, because you and I have talked about this and I have always told you. Because I think it's the way to make politics from one government, to have a clear direction, a leadership and not to let others mark the way for you because you, as a government, are the one who has to mark the path accompanied, that is, by all those who want to make the way with you. Hori da yan disudan garrantzitsuena. And I just want to finish one thing. You said politics was addressed to the results, and that's why I said: What will the government do to get these results? What's the government gonna put on the table to deal with these things? This subject, for instance, has been discussed, Mrs. Kortja's has put it on the table, and several new themes have been laid on the table about the handsomest employment. What's to be done with politics? How are they going to feed? What position will the government take? Or what direction will this government take on the theme of the retal energy placed on the table? What resources will this government lead to? That's what we want to know, that's what we have to work on from now on, and, no doubt, we know we're going to do it. We've always done it and we'll always do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u83	Pinedo andrea, he told me that he only heard music, that there was no lyrics. I think for the first time, tuning in the music isn't little either, is it? I am also convinced that the good progress of the economy will enable us to design a budget commensurate with the needs. Indeed, you know that we have recently revised our economic growth forecasts upwards and we are proposing for 2018 a GDP growth of 2.8 and 2.3 for 2019. Let's hope that next year I'll see some slowing down. As for employment, these forecasts give us that 17,800 jobs will be created this year 2018, 800 more than we thought in the previous forecasts, and that 2019 will create 13,200 full-time jobs. And that the unemployment rate will be below 10% in the second half of 2019. One of the strategic objectives of the Government will therefore be achieved. That doesn't mean we're gonna stop here. We meet a goal and continue to work for job creation. These data are, indeed, positive, we understand, for Euskadi. Macroeconomics can be said to be doing well. We have to recognize it and take advantage of its inertia and its impact on tax collection to do things. We know that there are still considerable problems in the micro, many of them arising from the recent economic crisis. And I recognize it, precariousness, we have said it on many occasions. Stop, still important. Social inequalities, poverty. He was telling me poverty. I read this morning a report which I am sure you have also read, an article in the press, which says that the risk of poverty in Euskadi is 8%, when the average in Spain, for example, is 21% and in Andalusia or Extremadura is 34%. No, no, I don't mean there's no risk of poverty here. There is a risk of poverty that is one third of the state's average and one quarter, for example, of Andalusia or Extremadura. I think that's a positive fact. Another positive development has also emerged, a report by Fedea that says that tax fraud in Euskadi is lower than anywhere else. It's also positive. So, let's get on the table, too. And that there is less fraud and that there is less poverty will, on the one hand, make it easier for us to pursue public policies. In any case, we will continue to strengthen social policies in order to correct these imbalances, which, in passing, I insist, are fortunately less and less. But it is a firm commitment of the Government. On the other hand, we must be aware and we must not forget, even if we like it more or less, that we must comply with the rules of stability of the public debt deficit. That Europe obliges us to do so? That we will surely get structural resources that will allow us to increase spending above the expenditure rule? We can also talk about this, but I believe that, despite everything, there is enough room to draw up good budgets to meet people's needs and to boost economic activity and employment. A budget that responds to the strategic lines I have mentioned to you, Mrs Pinedo. I wonder whether the political parties represented here will be able to take advantage of the economic situation and adopt budgets aimed at meeting the needs of the four challenges to which I have referred. I want to use – I have already, I believe, but I want to take this opportunity that you give me today – to make a call to the commitment to Euskadi by the political parties and parliamentary groups present here today. Are we going to focus the negotiation centered on the year 2019 and later or are we going to look back? Are we going to focus on stability and policies and people or are we going to let the political tide of our environment affect us? On the part of the Government, I believe we are clear: we are committed to ensuring stability and focusing on the present and future of Euskadi. Basque society, I think it deserves it after a serious economic crisis. And we have to allow it from politics. We are responsible for ensuring that this country has a budget capable of realising the needs that exist in our society. To make it clear, I'll say it in eucalyptus and rhyme. To admit priorities, we must all make our part and commitments. 'Euskion's all ready.' It's our responsibility, but it's our responsibility as well as that of this Parliament. I invite you, I invite you, Mrs. Pindo, and your team, to engage in engagements, when the growth and prosperity of our country requires us to continue this wager. To approve the budgets, we all have to put on our side, commit ourselves. The Basque Government is fully aware of this, it is our responsibility, but I also believe it is the responsibility of this Parliament. I invite you, Mrs Pinedo and your group, to do so, to continue to bet on the development and well-being of Euskadi, its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpation, made by Carolo Becero, member of the Podemus to the head of the Medical Department, to guarantee the health of the population in the face of the events of anatomical contagion." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u85	Good morning, señor Darpón. In your department's health plan, 2013-2020, the 5.6 objective is to ensure the quality of the environment. And in this environment it includes ensuring air quality, through, on the one hand, monitoring and monitoring of environmental risks and, on the other hand, through information to citizens. Our group believes that new protocols of action are needed today because there is no proper control and monitoring of risks, nor is there complete information given to citizens. Neither. In the quality of the air, you don't control the risks well, and you don't give people the right information and the whole. And the explanation is simple, the instrument you have is inadequate and that instrument is a network to control the quality of the air. This network does not measure the whole contagion, or measures it badly, or the results are not what you need, or the cabins are either removed or moved, without any concern for such judgements or decisions. And the problem with the air quality is in the street. He is in the street, Durangon, Eloron, strict, San Ignacion, Gueñes, Muskmen and Abanton, and it is necessary to give an answer to the citizens. And in this answer, the prevention is important in health, and it is better to prevent it than to cure it. And on the other hand, you are responsible for the health of the citizens. It's yours, it's your responsibility. The responsibility for ensuring air quality in Euskadi lies with the Department of Health, not with the Department of the Environment. Environment measures pollution or tries to measure it and makes the data available to the Department of Health. And it is Health's responsibility to ensure that air quality. It's better to prevent than to cure, you know it better than I do. And you also know that because the data from the World Health Organization are there, that pollution kills more than 7,000 people a year in Spain. Therefore, we assume that Euskadi is responsible for his aliquot share of these 7,000 deaths. However, in view of this situation, what we have is that the last Ecologists in Action report says that in Euskadi we exceed the limits set by the World Health Organization on several pollutants, that in other pollutants we are not making measurements and that we are also reducing the number of measuring stations in the air quality network. This air quality network, which manages Mr Arriola's Department and makes the data available to him, in principle, has multiple deficiencies, multiple deficiencies. On the one hand, I'm going to try to explain them to you in a more or less didactic and kind way, and I'm going to use some graphics, I hope you allow the license. On the one hand, I will tell you that the air quality network establishes the legal values of pollution but not the values of the World Health Organization. Look, these are some peaks recorded in Durango in June of the same year. This seems like a stage of the Tour de France, but it's the peaks of pollution. In green I have set the limits that the World Health Organization has set. In blue are the legal limits. The Department of the Environment at most... well, don't warn them, but at most, to warn them, will warn them when they cross the blue line. However, the World Health Organization says that there is already risk from the green limit, but you do not have the opportunity to learn about this, and this is an important issue, because the limits that matter to you are those of the World Health Organization, not the legal limits, which also. But in addition, the air quality network sometimes does not measure and sometimes measures poorly, there are faults in the cabins, there are invalidated data in the cabins of Petronor's environment, there are complete months of invalidated data is not well known why. And sometimes the air quality network measures, but the results are not visible. Look at this is another chart also from Durango. This chart has already been shown by my partner, Mr. Otero of EH Bildu. It begins to raise the pollution and, curiously, when it reaches the highest limits of pollution, the signal disappears, the signal disappears and again appears when it has dropped. From the air quality network more than once they have said that this is because we have to validate the data, that automatic validation takes an hour, and that if there is any problem, right, they do that validation, in cases where pollution goes up a lot, they do that manual validation. It took a month to do this validation. If you want to know the results of the Durango cabin, you can't know it, and if you want to know it, citizens can't know it either. But, in addition, the results that give you are average values and those average values are because the legal limits are set in average values, often yearly. For example, the benzene measured in Petronor's environment establishes that the limits are 5 micrograms per cubic meter in annual value. Well, that can respond to a chronic exposure, as you know, but not an acute exposure. In the Petronor environment, not 5 milligrams, peaks of 137 milligrams. In June 2017, a year ago, 82 micrograms, sorry. That is, multiplied by several times the limit of chronic exposure, and you are interested in both chronic exposure and acute exposure. And this is very important that we take it into account, because the air quality network gives averages that are often timetables, or daily, or annual. But, in addition, strange things happen, such as moving cabins around Petronor, just in places where pollution is not going to go, or removing cabins. And I'm going to give you an example of the area of Zorroza and San Ignacio in Bilbao. It is an area that has suffered multiple episodes of chemical odors, to the point that in 2009 a smell table was set up in which neighborhood associations also participated. This was in 2009. In 2011, the problem disappeared, and in part disappeared because the cabins were removed from both Zorroza and San Ignacio. The nearest cabin right now is in Barakaldo, in a sense that never gives the wind, which is the east wind, and the other is in the Alameda Mazarredo. Obviously, the Government's conclusion has been that there are no longer pollution problems in Zorroza and San Ignacio, which are no longer problems. And they say it in writing. "We have systems for measuring volatile organic compounds in Munoa Barakaldo and Mazarredo-Bilbao station," and they stay so quiet, but neighbors and neighbors continue to complain. There are other places, many places, in Güeñes, in Elorrio, where there is directly no cabin, there is no fixed cabin and then the mobile stations are taken. Environment calls them mobile stations. To put mobile stations the only requirement is that there is plug, and then you talk to the municipalities and you don't put it in the most suitable place, you put it in the place where there is plug. And sometimes, even in the place where there is plug can happen that doesn't give the pollution, or even gives the pollution and mobile stations don't measure anything. Look, I'm going to show you a very curious picture, because it was taken in Gueñes, about a year and a half ago. This is the mobile station, Mr Arriola, of the Department of the Environment. This was also taught to Mr Arriola at the time, because this station did a measurement campaign that gave nothing. That's what the vice-counsel for the environment said: "It hasn't given anything, it's all right." But it had such a layer of soot the mobile station, that the neighbors put "help." They put "help." They could write "help" of the toxic dust layer that this mobile station had. And he didn't give anything, he didn't give anything. With this I am obviously not making you responsible for this issue, but I am telling you that you are using the data from this network to assess the health risks of the population. Because your responsibility, that of your department, is to ensure that air quality is the right one, that public health is the right one. And today you have neither the ability to decide, nor what is measured, nor how is measured, nor when is measured, nor when is alerted. And this is very important. It's very important, because if you don't have control of this, you can't do a good risk assessment. They can't do a good risk assessment. And the good risk assessment is the one that gives, on the one hand, a clear and concise answer and, on the other hand, removes doubts to the population. Today we have a problem in the streets of Euskadi. In Güeñes there have been demonstrations of 2,000 people for air quality. In Durango 2,500 signatures have been collected. In Zorrotza and San Ignacio the smell table had to be constituted. In Elorrio they have a huge problem, to the point that it is being proposed that the neighborhood itself buy its own meter, because they are not relying on the measurements being made. In conclusion, we have a network that does not work well and that does not cover all the risks and, of course, you have something to say in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u86	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u87	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I'm sure, Mr. Becerra, that you want to guarantee people's health and that you're very interested in it. I have no doubt of it, but you may be sure that I also have a great interest in securing people's health and working every day for it. I assure you, Mr Becerra, that the Department of Health works every day to ensure the health of all people in Euskadi. To this end, many measures are being implemented, many programmes implemented, as well as policies promoted. The 2013-2020 Health Plan is for us the guide document for all of them. It is the fundamental tool for strengthening the Basque health system, improving the health of Basques and Basques and further increasing their quality of life, as well as overcoming existing health inequalities. For this we start from a fundamental premise. Health is a right of all people, while it is also a responsibility of all. In this way, the Health Plan starts from the need to incorporate health into all policies, and combine health and individual actions that mainly focus on Osakidetza, with population actions aimed at changing the causes of health and disease. And in this area, environmental conditions play a very important role. As you said, and I agree, air pollution can have an impact on people's health. Particularly in urban and industrial areas. We are fully aware of this. That is why the Health Plan includes an objective with regard to the environment, with specific actions in the environmental field, which you mentioned, and which we carry out in coordination with the Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, which is the department responsible for monitoring and controlling air quality. The health plan, in every political point of view, is that every group of equivocations, each in its own sector and in its area, collects the actions and measures that may affect health. In the case of emissions from accidents or incidents, the competent body would be the Department of Safety and, in our case, the Department of Health is responsible, as you have also mentioned, for ensuring the health of people. But in answering your specific question, let me correct you. The Department of Health is not the competent body to implement action protocols for air pollution episodes. The responsibility for monitoring and monitoring air quality is vested in the Department of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, as I have said. In any case, we are fully aware of the impact air pollution can have on people's health and therefore work in a coordinated way, from the cross-sectoral approach to health in all policies. In this sense, M. M.M. was engaged in his government program to continue to improve the quality of the air, according to the recommendations given by the Health World Organization. Not only this, but the environmental policy has taken upon itself the commitment to a low-seasoned society and to produce a green and circular economy, the basis of the welfare of the community. So, not only is it a priority to protect environment, but in accordance with the view of "real health in all politics," but also the welfare of the community is particularly attentive to the welfare of the community. In this regard, the environmental policy of the Basque Government is firmly committed to achieving a society with low carbon emissions, a green and circular economy, and resilient ecosystems that lay the foundations for the well-being of citizens in line with the health strategy in all policies. The European Union has developed a legislative framework based on Directive 2008/50 EEC of 21 May on ambient air quality and a cleaner atmosphere in Europe. Its first objective is to define and establish ambient air quality targets to avoid preventing or reducing harmful effects on human health and the environment. This legislation, as you know, has been transposed into state law. These standards set limit values for different pollutants in ambient air. These limits are set for hourly, daily or annual averages, depending on whether the main effects of the contaminant on health are acute or chronic. In addition, it regulates the actions to be carried out in the event of exceeding these limits. In the case of Euskadi, as you have also said, to monitor and control air quality, the Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing has the air quality control network, which measures the pollutants set out in the legislation, all the pollutants set out in the legislation, and makes it possible to determine air quality in natural areas, urban areas and industrial environments. In the event that the limits established by the current regulations are exceeded, the Department of the Environment is responsible for conducting a diagnosis of the causes and sources and for establishing improvement plans to restore compliance with the regulations. In order to provide an overview of the environmental state, the environmental profile of the Euskadi and the annual air quality reports of the CAPV are published regularly, where it is noted – and will agree with it – that the traditionally high levels of pollution have been greatly reduced, mainly thanks to the conversion of the Basque productive fabric and also to actions aimed at alleviating atmospheric pollution. So, while I fully agree with you that the impact that air pollution can have on people's health, I suppose you will also agree with me that the current situation in Euskadi in relation to air pollution is good. In fact, it is remarkably better than a few decades ago, when even a contaminated atmosphere was declared. And it is better today than that of other countries of the European Union, where air quality limits are systematically exceeded. However, as I have already said, efforts are being made to improve air quality, to a greater extent than the transposition of the EU directive and to a greater extent than the current legislation. And we are on the line of pursuing the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which today are recommendations, and in case you don't know, I tell you, it captures the current program of government, of the Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist government of Euskadi. Thus, the participation of the Department of Health through the Public Health Directorate in this area includes several actions in which I will take advantage to highlight the following. To gather information to confirm that air quality exceeds the planned thresholds to collaborate in characterizing the situation through the conduct of analyses in the public health laboratory of the Department of Health itself, to evaluate the health condition through the Epidemiological Surveillance Service, to interpret air quality data and to apply specific risk assessment methodologies, as was recently done in the case of Muskiz, Abanto and Zierbena and other areas of Euskadi that you mentioned and to establish jointly with the Environment the measures or recommendations for risk management with respect to the health of the population. All these measures, of course, in co-ordination and association with the Environmental, Lands, Housing Department, and Housing; always in favors of the health of the Basques, and of the quality of life. In this, as in other fields, you can always be better, but it is very important to know those specific moments, where in some areas the levels are exceeded, what measures are taken when they are exceeded, to know that there is no European Union country that in all its areas does not at some point exceed the defined levels. And above all, see what the trend is. And the trend of air pollution in Euskadi and the trend of air quality in Euskadi, if we forget about the political discussion, I am sure it will coincide with me that it is remarkably better, it is getting better and the air quality is more than acceptable, good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u89	You, Mr Darpón, have come to tell me that we are making progress on air quality, obviously. But if we were to follow an educational simile, I would say that it is insufficient progress, and I would dare say that in recent years we are seeing a regression. Because it is true what you say, that there has been an improvement over the 1980s, as it could not be otherwise. It's just that in the '70s people died of pollution at the time, now they die in delay, then they died at the time. But it is insufficient and this is not a political debate, this is on the street. Yeah. When 2,500 signatures are collected in a population like Durango, it's not a problem that I'm bringing here because I have that whim. When in Gueñes all political groups are behind a banner and 2,000 people come out in a village like Gueñes, there is a problem. So, and this is a problem that Ecologists in Action also notes, which says in their 2017 report, not in the 1980s, it says: "As a result of this situation 1.4 million inhabitants of Euskadi breathe an air harmful to health according to WHO recommendations", which, as you say, we are trying to achieve but we have not yet achieved. We didn't make it. And it says, "... being 870,000 Basques living in the only area that exceeds a legal limit that is the Low Nervous." We have people who are breathing air that doesn't have the right quality and in view of this, we obviously have to have a good part of the skills, that I'm not going to deny, it's the Department of the Environment. The implementation of air quality monitoring and air quality control protocols, but not the implementation of health protection protocols, will be the responsibility of the Department of Health. And you have to find a way for both protocols to be spoken, not that they are behind each other's backs or that they do not exist directly, or that they do not exist, because we only have today a protocol drawn up by the Environment, which is for ozone, there is nothing else. It is important what you have said that we are on the road to meeting but we do not meet the criteria of the World Health Organization. I'll take you back to the Tour de France, the stage of the Tour de France, and I'll tell you that between this line and this line there is 15% more mortality. WHO says, 15% more mortality. Therefore, it is important to meet the WHO criteria. Reducing mortality from the causes of air pollution by 15% is a very important objective and we have to put ourselves and, of course, we cannot put ourselves with the speech that we are doing very well. What does the environment do when, as you said, you have to analyse what are the sources of pollution? Look, in the case of Zorrotza and San Ignacio there are several pollution outbreaks, but there is one that was especially concerned about the citizenry, which was a company dedicated to the treatment of waste. In 2009, in addition to setting up the smell table, a technology was introduced in the company to give more strength to the smoke pen. So, what happened? Let the smoke feather no longer fall in Zorrotza. It's all over Bilbao. That is, in Zorrotza they no longer have anything to complain about and in San Ignacio neither, according to the Department of Environment. But the pollution is there. And what problems do we have with pollution, Mr. Darpón? That we often measure the particles, but we don't measure what chemical compound those particles carry. And then, today we have that in Gueñes they are asking to analyze the benzopyrenes of that dust that fell over the mobile station, because it is carcinogenic. That in Petronor, for example, his own department is asking, his own technicians are asking for a lot of chemical compounds to be analyzed: volatile organics, polycyclic hydrocarbons... They are asking that they be analyzed like a hundred and, today, the air quality network only measures three, only measures three. I mean, we don't have the air quality network that we would need to guarantee the health of the citizenry and that's why it's very important, it's very important that your department's involvement is greater. I'm not charging you with sole responsibility. I'm not blaming you for the responsibility alone, but I do say, yes, I say, that the stance, the position of thinking that everything is all right today is not enough for all this citizenship that is manifesting itself on the streets for a better air quality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u91	Mr. Becerra, as I said before, we work in this area with the Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing Department and the Medical Department co-ordinately. We have no doubt the effect which the pollen of the air may have on people's health. This is why the Medical Plan has received a specific purpose and several actions in this respect. In any case, we must note that today's contamination index is below what the Eukadin rules say, and that the quality of the air is better than a few years ago. I do not believe that I have said in this rostrum this morning that in the matter of air quality and air pollution we lack areas of improvement and that everything is fine, it would just be missing. I agree with you, we are talking about a frankly complex issue, where the period of a government would probably be absolutely insufficient. I have told you that at this time compared to our environment, with countries at our socio-economic level, we are acceptable and that, above all, the trend is very good and that the Government's commitment is not to comply with the current rules. By the way, a transposition of a European directive if it is not to comply with the recommendations of the World Health Organization, recommendations... which you cannot illustrate, will not have a third Turn, but I'm ready at the door. I do not think that any country in the European Union is fulfilling today. You participate in some state government as well. I'd like to know if in that government program you pick up what it looks like you're demanding from us here today. Probably not, and surely that's not implausible to Mr. Becerra. Air has been one of the most historically affected environmental elements in the industrial past of the Basque Country, and its potential health conditions have led to important social awareness, which is to be appreciated. And it is to be thanked when people in the various areas in which they live have a concern. For us it is a source of interest, you have no doubt, and both from the Department of Environment and from the Department of Health, we will start to respond. As I have explained, the Department of Health, in line with WHO recommendations, considers air pollution one of the most relevant elements. Well, to give us an idea, speaking of WHO health recommendations, you've taken some graphics but you haven't given the theoretical data. Look, the legal limit values of PM 10 and PM 2.5 are 40 and 25 micrograms per cubic metre per year, respectively, and the WHO reference values are 20 and 10, respectively, in the case of the first half and in the case of the second much less than half. In Euskadi, in the case of the PM 10 value, there is no population exposed above the legal limit and around 97% of the population at the PM 10 value would be below the WHO reference level. As for the PM 2.5 value, the average value in Euskadi is very close to the WHO reference value and therefore far from the legal limit. And again, considering this good development, I stress the situation of air quality and any further improvement, we are aware that it is a health benefit. The relevant departments will continue to work throughout the legislature to improve air quality. In this regard, I would also like to say that the Directorate of Public Health has been working on air quality and health projects for years, two European projects, APHEIS and APHEKOM, which have studied the relationship between air quality and mortality. We are also participating in the FIS MEDEA 3 project, which aims to establish the relationships between socio-economic factors, environmental factors and mortality data. Also a collaboration programme between the Environment and Public Health Council, which has carried out joint actions to improve the quality of data from the Euskadi air control network. Health risk assessments have been conducted associated with air quality in different populations, many compounds are being analyzed and we hope to see how more of those that you have pointed out here are being analyzed. Especially those who have limits in the legislation. We are also working on methodologies that make it possible to make specific estimates of the condition of air pollution in the population of Euskadi, in which today we have one of the highest life expectancy in the European Union and the highest in the world. Therefore, it seems difficult to defend that mortality affects us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Your time is up. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the public offering of Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u93	Good morning, Mr. Darpón. In general political terms, the so-called three errors: recognition, reparation and guarantees for non-repetition are often applied in conflict resolution. Three errors that can be applied in this topic if the issue of OPEs is to be resolved. One to confess, to confess there's a problem. We're surprised that this government has a problem and that it's impossible and that it has contradictions. Two, compensation, repair damage. Three, no more assurances. In these three axes, as is the case in medicine, if the first step does not go well, the next steps may not be properly followed. I mean, if the diagnosis isn't right, then the other stages that follow can't be done properly. And, Mr. Darpón, we have doubts about how you make the proper diagnosis in the public offers. In fact, yesterday you took several steps to protect several points, but a point is to create a group of jobs for studying the politics of the human resources of Osa, creating a team for changing the pattern, you didn't protect it. And we clearly see that in order to solve the problem, to prevent those irregular praxies which are supposed to have ever happened, not to repeat, not to repeat, that to Hosa, the "passes por el era, sí o sí" system, the model of organization must be changed. So, Mr. Darpón, what measures will you take, so that what's happening in the Public Job is not going to happen again?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mr. Darpón is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u95	President andrea, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuak, Ubera andrea. We've talked a long and broad way around the deadline these few days. As we have repeated it over and over, we are the Medical Department, Osarides, and IVAP, with the first interest to develop this period with all transparency and assurance. Hence we have taken all the measures which have been in our power to make this time of security. Mrs Ubera, you are absolutely aware that the Department of Health and Osakidetza are the main stakeholders that this OPE should end with all guarantees. And you also know that we have taken the necessary steps and will continue to do so in the future, and we will do so with complete transparency and in line with the points agreed yesterday in this House. Besides, I think I spoke to you personally before yesterday. With you and your group. You're asking me what measures we're going to take. Don't worry, you'll have to give me some time. I am convinced that this OPE had sufficient measures to guarantee, and that if there has been any problem it will have been for individual actions. Anyway, don't worry, we'll have time to see it and check it out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u97	You haven't answered me, Mr. Darpón. I asked him about the measures, about guarantees for non-repetition. Oh yes, Zein neurri hartuko dituzu berriro ore gerratazzen ari dena ez gertazzeko? I don't know. I don't know what you're talking about. To put an end to the model of impunity, we clearly see that we must shake hands with the political model of human resources, and that is what I wish to ask again to-day. I know it's not necessary to ask because you know the system better than we do. You know the system and you know how it works and how it doesn't work. And in this we shall be very obstinate, because we know that the essence is that, and if the essence does not change, nothing will change. And the problems will appear or not, there will be scandals or no, but nothing will be solved if the brain does not change. And that's why we're asking you to act responsible, to consume political responsibility. Because if you don't, you know better than anyone what you can find out, and it's your decision. Your decision is to pass as head of departments into history as irregularities have swallowed it up, to history, as the chief physician who has faced irregularities, and has set measures for reforming the pattern. You have two options. The decision is yours and you have to decide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u99	Ubera anderea, I am a much humbler person than what you pose me. I really didn't aspire or aspire to any history when I took office. I want to work every day for a quality public system, and I want my successor or successor and the citizens of this country to find a better service than I found. I work on that reference every day. I'll tell you again. This OPE has had different measures than others and I, since my mistake, was and remain firmly convinced that they should have been sufficient guarantees that we would not have to have this debate here today. But what's more, I'm also convinced that you should have thought about it, because before the public offer of employment no one said anything, when the bases on which this public offer of employment was organized and celebrated were agreed at the Sectoral Bureau. Even those unions that did not want to agree on the basis but did not talk about any additional measures, now criticise them. And this OPE had a trade union signature. It was signed by the Euskadi Medical Union, it was signed by SATSE and signed by UGT, and I am convinced, without a doubt, that they were convinced and will probably continue, that they had sufficient measures. However, all processes are learned. Of this, you have no doubt that the health system is going to be strengthened and, of course, we are going to make a very thorough analysis of what has happened and why, in the spirit of improvement and in the spirit of not happening again, that there is not even any doubt. As before, there have been a great many measures taken for this EPE's full support, and I will shorten the most important measures. This OPE has been agreed with the unions, for the first time it has had equal courts, it is the public offer of employment in which fewer heads of service, section – if the problem could have been there – have participated in the courts. It is the first time that the VATP has produced all the first tests of all categories, of the 86 categories. He's had a comprehensive security protocol for custody, photocopying and test delivery. All first tests, correction of first tests, have been carried out through an automated reading system that guarantees the objectivity of the process. As you can see, very diverse, new measures taken solely to ensure that the OPE is developed with the greatest guarantees, that the best candidates are elected on equal terms. That has been our goal since the first day and remains today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u100	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the legal members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head of the health department, about the supposed irregularity of the Osa-EMP and the criteria of their influence." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko. Well, counselor, we asked you two weeks ago about the OPE in Osakidetza and the irregularities in this OPE. We had an important debate yesterday, with a broad agreement, also supported almost in its entirety by the parties supporting the Government, and today we ask again about this issue. If I have to say, Mr Councillor, that I was surprised, this group was surprised by the statements made by you, who was accompanied by the Director-General of Osakidetza the other day, when you tried to minimize possible leaks and therefore irregularities in this OPE, saying that only 2.5% of the 3,335 seats were restricted. The question is very specific, Mr. Counsellor, what criteria have led you to make this statement, when you also know that some evidence has been suspended and obviously also the unions have put on the table suspicions about the existence of possible irregularities in more evidence? We want to know what criteria have led you to make these statements in which we understand that you minimize the irregularities that may be existing in the OPE of Osakidetza, without prejudice to the fact that there is an open investigation and that we do not know what the investigation is going to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u103	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuok. Madam Garrido, we do not take care of this matter; we are very sensible of the importance of this subject, and consequently we act with care, care, severity, and responsibilities. In this regard, we consider it essential to provide the information in a transparent and objective manner, and my statements were limited to describing the number of places that were paralyzed at that time, without any minimization. What were the paralyzed ones and what were the ones that continued? The truth is that today four research files have been opened in hospital medical categories. In addition, the Osakidetza Governing Council acted immediately and took the decision to request a statistical analysis of results coherence from an independent expert. The follow-up committee of the OPE has also been convened, where it was decided, together with the trade unions that signed the agreement, to continue with the outstanding tests because there are no risks and out of respect – which I believe we have a lot – to the thousands of opponents. In any case, information has also been given to all political groups. We had a meeting with the Ararteko. Osakidetza is at the disposal of the Prosecutor's Office. There has also been a meeting with all medical schools. Therefore, I insist, the public body Osakidetza is carrying out a rigorous and thorough investigation into both the organisational procedures and the tests carried out in this OPE. The results of each and every court are being analysed, and their continuity will be paralysed and investigation files will be opened in each of those where irregularities are detected. The Department of Health, Osakidetza and VATP are the first interested parties to resolve this matter as soon as possible and we will continue to work and do everything in our power to do so. I am not going to judge interpretations that you can do about something you read in a newspaper, about statements I make in one place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u105	Yes, Mr. Counsellor, but my job as an opposition is obviously to value the statements you made. And, well, we understood that it minimized any irregularities that might be on the table, obviously without prejudice to the fact that there may be cases or that more cases of possible irregularities may appear. But in addition, Mr Councillor, the interest is not of this group, that we are obviously a group that we are trying to safeguard, as it could not otherwise be, the interests of Basque citizens, but also by the good name of Osakidetza, and also by the very calmness of the people who oppose, who compete and who have aspirations to have a place in Osakidetza. And also because of the very tranquility of Basque citizenship as a whole, which also has in a high regard a service such as the service of Osakidetza, Basque public health. Yesterday, Mr President-in-Office, an important agreement was reached in this Parliament, which you practically approved. An agreement I have to say that also, forced by the circumstances, but I believe that it can also imply a before and after in a change – I at least understand it this way and so does my group – of position in relation to the attitude we have known in the previous days by the government. Yesterday's agreement clearly speaks of recognizing the existence of signs and irregularities, which have violated equal opportunities in access to public service. It urges the Government to come to the end, I think that is very important, that yesterday it be made clear and that there is a mandate from this House to the Government telling it that it has to come to the end in clearing up irregularities, in clearing up responsibilities, in transferring irregularities to the Office of the Prosecutor. Therefore, also transparency in another point, in the presentation of the external report that is being prepared in this House. And above all, finally, also a point that states that guarantees must be established in future OPEs in order to ensure transparency and the principle of equal opportunities. And, in this regard, the adoption of the necessary measures. I believe that you in yesterday's agreement, supporting yesterday's agreement, recognize issues that you until recently denied, and I believe that this is an important step, and I believe that this is a significant step forward and we appreciate it. And let us hope, Mr Councillor, that this agreement will be fulfilled, that this mandate will be used to fully clarify what has happened, and I hope that you will give the necessary explanations and those that are required in this Parliament too in the near future, which, as we all know, will be enabled in July to do so. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u107	Mrs Garrido, coincided with some of your appreciation of the rostrum. Let me tell you, the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party and the parliamentary group of the Basque Socialist Party, if I may, yesterday voted in conscience what they thought they should vote for. They didn't vote for anyone's rebuff. Second. I have repeated to you to the satisfaction that this OPE had sufficient guarantees and I keep saying it, because it had important improvements over others, and because I will never accept from anyone that the 26,400 people who work in the structural staff of Osakidetza, many with a place of ownership, have not previously taken it out for their competences and on equal terms. We are very tired of repeating, because we believe in this, that in Osakidetza, in addition to the fact that the successive governments that have been in this country have given it adequate funding, in addition to the fact that the successive departments of health and directions of Osakidetza have had a continuous planning, without doing in almost any legislature or in any new bill and account, I am absolutely convinced that we have the best professionals, that our professionals are better than the average of the majority of the health professions, not of the rest of the communities, but of any health system in the world, because in addition to technical competence and good means, they combine the commitment with their work, with the public health service and with something very difficult to achieve that it is the treatment, to be compassionate, in the place that it is facing. Therefore, you agree with me and do not doubt what has happened before. And in addition, you have supported public job offers at other times in other legislatures and I am sure that you have consciously considered that you are choosing the best. Me too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Time is up. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interadectation, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to Turism, commerce, and the chief physician of the consuls, about the "turism" rate." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u109	Yes, good morning. Before addressing the councillor, I did want to take this opportunity to express on behalf of my organization, by Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, our most absolute disagreement with the decision of the Navarra High Court to release the convicted in the case of La Manada. And now yes, addressing Mr Retortillo, as you know, on 28 September the Basque Parliament approved a non-transacted proposal for a law, with the support of the Basque Nationalist, Basque Socialist and Basque People's groups, which called on the Basque Government to establish a dialogue with Eudel, with the agents of the tourist sector and with the different Basque administrations on the possibility of implementing the well-known tourist rate. However, in the same plenary session, the original initiative was rejected to urge the Government to make a concrete proposal that would enable municipalities to apply this tourist rate. It was the result of a debate that we brought to this House on this occasion from my group, precisely to urge the Government to put in place the appropriate measures so that the municipalities that wish to do so can apply a tourist rate. Our initiative had no majority support in the vote, even though several spokesmen of those who voted against said that their groups were in favour of the possibility of launching this measure at some point. Almost all groups were open to the possibility of starting the tourist rate at some point. The same groups that govern the Basque Government, which govern the Gipuzkoa Diputation and the Donostia City Council, have expressed on more than one occasion that they would favour the establishment of this rate. But on that occasion we were told that only after those contacts that had to be maintained could the Basque Government address the decision on the tourist rate. As you will also know, in my coalition we have had a clear opinion on this issue for some time now. We are in favour, and I said so on that occasion, of launching the tourist rate. And we are in favour of putting the same in place as soon as possible, because we think that the measure is not new, it has been debated and analysed for many years. We know and you know perfectly well, that in our environment this rate has an important presence for a long time. In some places such as Paris, for example, it has been applied since the 90s of the past century. And it has always been done with good results, it does not have a negative impact on tourism in those places where it is applied and it allows a number of economic and social benefits that can result both in the sector itself and in the expenses that tourism generates in the cities that have this tourism most. Expenditures that right now mainly support the neighbors of the municipalities themselves, with particular relevance, logically, in the municipalities with the most weight of tourism. In our case, we speak in a special way of the city of Donostia, but also of some other municipalities such as Zarautz, Hondarribia, etc. The establishment of the tax in those municipalities that bear the most tourist impact in Euskadi would therefore be an interesting tool, in our opinion, to avoid that the public expenses generated by this activity ultimately fall to the neighbors and neighbors of these municipalities, who are ultimately paying fees for waste, cleaning, maintenance of urban furniture, etc. I do not know if you know that in the case of Donostia, for example, these rates have been rising in recent years. Residue rates have increased by one percentage point. 14 % since 2015. It is the highest rate in the entire Spanish State. The rate of water in Donostia has increased by 11% in recent years and the basic price of the urban bus, which is very important for those of us living in the workers' quarters of the Donostia belt, has also been increasing since the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party ruled in this last municipal legislature. In Europe there are most countries that have one way or another with this tourist rate, you know it perfectly well. This is a trend that it is becoming widespread at the global level and that it is of great interest because of the economic benefits it can bring to the country and, above all, because of the relief it can bring to the neighbours of the cities. This is a measure known and applied with good results that is being requested by two of the municipalities where the most presence and impact has tourism at this time in Euskadi. In particular in the case of Donostia, which has requested it on numerous occasions through agreements of the municipal plenary itself. Last time, just yesterday without going any further. At the request of our comrades of the Irabazi Donostia coalition, again by unanimity of all groups, they again said yes to the implementation of the tourist rate. We therefore believe that the Government should already be in a position to say that it shares that view expressed yesterday by the Donostia City Council again and to say that it wants the tourist rate to be put in place. We believe that the Government is already in a position to clarify whether or not it wants the municipalities that consider it appropriate to apply this rate in Euskadi. We believe that nine months since we debated here in this House it has been a reasonable time for the Basque Government to have spoken with different actors and to have been able to clarify this issue. That is why we are asking you today to know whether you are already going to push this action or whether you are going to continue to call for further study or for further consultation with the agents. We assume that the consultations with the agents, referred to in that GNP that was approved, have already been carried out by you at this time. And we would also like to advise, if the government is already clear on the need for this measure, to explain to us the Government's opinion on what it believes is the most appropriate formula for implementing in those municipalities that are claiming it. Because we have been able to hear this same month's opinions as to whether the measure should be implemented by the Members of Parliament, in this case that of Gipuzkoa, which is the one concerned, or by the Basque Government itself. Opinions found, among institutional leaders, in addition to the same parties, those that govern both in Donostia and in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, as well as in the Autonomous Community. We believe that they should agree between the three institutional levels in a clearer way. Because in addition, they are composed of the same colors and therefore should not be so difficult. Mr Ernesto Gasco, Lieutenant Mayor of Donostia, said last week that "a study commissioned by the portfolio headed by Mr Retortillo concludes that, since it is a tax, its implementation is outside competition, so it would be up to the General Councils to present a formal regulatory proposal". On the other hand, sources of the Guipuzcoana Treasury have recently explained that the competence to initiate this charge is vested in the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government. Gipuzkoa's own outspoken spokesman, Imanol Lasa, said that the Basque Government, from the direction of Tourism, has developed a project to enable legal frameworks that generate certainty in order to be able to charge new taxes or taxes linked to tourism. Something, what Mr Lasa has said, which is basically or not basically, what we asked for in the GNP that was rejected in this Parliament, which was finally negotiated between the EH Bildu Group and our Elkarrekin Pode. That's exactly what we were asking for. That's why I'm asking you if this is true. To tell him also that it seems that you are finishing or perhaps you have already finished, we are not clear, a study on this issue. I'm sure you'll explain it to me now. It also seems that the parliament is doing a new study. He's not the first. It seems to us very well that the studies are being carried out, but we believe that they have been dilated for too long and that this has not just been clarified, in this case I am referring to the Basque Government, whether you want the tourist rate to be implemented or not. We would like to know whether the Basque Government wants the tourist rate to exist in Euskadi. And if the answer is yes, we'd like to know what they're going to do to make it a reality as soon as possible. If the answer is no, I will transfer my group's intention to continue to insist and try to convince the Government that this is a positive step that should be implemented as soon as possible. What I would ask is a clear answer in this regard. Because we think, as I said at the beginning, that you must already have enough elements with the work that has been done to make clear the position of whether you consider it opportune that we already have those tourist rates with those characteristics, so that the municipalities that believe it opportune can implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u110	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hernández. On this issue, the question of the tourist rate, the so-called tourist rate, I believe that I have expressed my position on this from the outset, and I have also made it publicly. First, that it was open to debate, I did not reject it or reject it. In fact, from the conceptual point of view of the tourist rate, my position is favourable. But, at the same time, I have also said that from the point of view of government responsibility this position should be analysed at the same time in terms of the tourist reality of Euskadi. As I say, I have said this on several occasions, starting from that favourable position. It set some parameters that seemed to me to be basic to focus the debate. The first, that the reality of tourism in Euskadi is very heterogeneous and that, therefore, the position favourable to a tourist rate could not derive in a mandatory and equal application throughout the territory to overnight stays throughout Euskadi according to that heterogeneous situation. There should be scope for the decision to implement it to be municipal, but not regulation, which is not theirs. Secondly, the other premise, which I thought was basic and which is sometimes forgotten, is that of the destination of the income generated by the so-called tourist rate, in which I also felt it necessary to reflect on that destination. Because I couldn't let go of the very sector that generates them, whether in terms of promotion or infrastructure. Because I will tell you something, when we talk about taxation or the taxation of the tourism sector from the tourist rate we are only talking about one aspect, that of tourist stays. Because the tourism sector, be it the intermediaries, be it the tourist services, be it the transport, etc., etc., tax, has a taxation, all these services have a taxation, which are revenues that are generated from the tourist activity for the public arks. All these different aspects are already being monitored. We are therefore not talking about the taxation of tourism but about the taxation of tourist stays. And the last point I made in connection with this debate is that under no circumstances could the tourist rate be interpreted as a regulator or as a brake on tourism activity. Especially because it doesn't work like that. That is, if someone wanted to set the rate as a way of regulating tourism, regulating the volume of tourism, it seemed to me that they were wrong. That the fundamental approach must be to improve the quality of tourism services on the basis of such taxation and to support sustainable tourism initiatives. That seemed to me to be basically the fate of this rate. As you have rightly said, a GNP has been approved. The GNP initiative is May 2017 and is launched on 28 September 2017. He said that, in speaking of time and in speaking of priorities and urgency, when this GNP is being implemented, the Government is urged, first of all, to establish a dialogue with Eudel, because of the importance, also according to the premises that seemed to also agree with the positions of other groups in the House, the importance of it being a rate, let us say, of municipal establishment and that it did not correspond to all the municipalities. A dialogue with Eudel and, on the other hand, also or also with the sector and with other institutions, etc., in order to try to advance in the analysis and decision on the implementation or not of the so-called tourist rate. From the moment that the GNP is approved, apart from the public interventions, in which I have always focused on the same arguments, because I already tell you that at conceptual level I have a favorable position to the tourist rate, even before accessing my responsibilities of government and, therefore, had more or less clear parameters and even more when seeing the reality of tourism in Euskadi from my responsibility... He said that since then, indeed, I have had contacts with the sector, with institutions, with different institutional leaders, with those involved with the tourism area, with those involved with other areas at the municipal level, also information from other government departments and basically from the Treasury, also with the sector on this issue. In relation to the first point, which was that of the interview, about February or March I established communication with the President of Eudel himself. The most appropriate way to establish a dialogue with Eudel on this issue would be to establish a specific non-generic forum of Eudel, but specific to municipalities, or at least a representation of different types of municipalities in relation to tourism, which would allow the municipalities concerned to talk and reflect on this issue. That was about February or March. In that same month of March I decided, since, in fact, after all the contacts – and you have reflected some of them in your intervention – basically, what I have seen is a lot of ambiguity, a lot of indefinacy and a lot of confusion about the so-called tourist rate and in some aspects that are key when it is implemented, I decided to commission an expert report on the tourist rate, which is to talk about generic, first, what is the situation of the tourist rate in those Spanish autonomous communities that have implemented it and also in other European contexts, because in some are general regulations, in other cases are specifically municipal regulations. But let them also contemplate other elements, some of which I have spoken of. What's the fate? What is the margin for establishing the purpose of this rate? What are the powers or conflicts of fiscal powers that can be established between different administrations? What's the tax type? Because we talk all the time about tax, but it's a tax. And so on. In March I commissioned a report which is soon to be finalized. You have talked about the discrepancies that have appeared in the press lately, about what should be remembered by Mark Twain's maxim, when he said that the information about his death had been terribly exaggerated. There has been talk of a report, but you have not mentioned any statement from me, because there has been no statement from me about it, and I was the one who commissioned the report. And there hasn't been any, because the report I haven't received yet. Therefore, all those who have spoken of conclusions or existence, or who have asked, etc.... First, that request has not arrived, and second, it is impossible materially, because the report has not arrived, but as I say it will be in my hands by the end of this month. What do I intend to do with that report? Effectively convene that specific Eudel forum to deal with this issue, to reflect on this issue, once we have information, not from the ears, from the press, from impressions, or from debates in the air, but on specific information that also concerns the regulation itself in Basquedi and the competition system in Basquedi. That's what I'm telling you about, I've already talked to Imanol Landa, President of Eudel and Mayor Getxo, to establish it. I would also like to draw those conclusions from my own analysis of this report to the sector through the Tourism Bureau. In any case, and with regard to your question about the position or not that this adviser may have, I say to you that my commitment is to lead this issue, to carry it forward, with the necessary rhythms, taking into account the first aspect I told you about considering the heterogeneity and purpose of income. But I do show you my intention to lead this issue, to carry it forward, once you also have that information, and to do so also obviously in collaboration not only with the local institutions from that specific Eudel forum, but also with the sector, because I have found very contradictory positions. You have referred a lot to the case of San Sebastián and to the demand of San Sebastián, but I will also tell you that I have encountered other positions, even municipal ones, quite contrary. But my purpose is to lead the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u112	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u113	Yes, thank you for the answer, counselor. I stand by your position, even conceptually, at the tourist rate. It is true, and I also said it when we held the debate here in September last year, that we knew your views in favour of that rate. And that is why, on that occasion, I also said that I did not understand why we had not reached a majority agreement on this issue, because, moreover, the only group that at least in this House was clearly opposed was the People's Party. I'll take that and I'll take that you've said another sentence that's going to come to the end. I do not know whether we can interpret from here that we are going to have tourist rates in Euskadi, of course with the parameters that it has to have, and it is true that there is a broad consensus that it is the municipalities concerned that can apply it. And those municipalities that aren't logically interested that they can't apply it. Because we have several specific municipalities that are very interested, that are repeatedly asking for it, and that would mean for them, and in particular about the case of Donostia and, above all, for the people living in that city and in the neighborhoods of that city, an important benefit. You've made reference to the times. I said it the other time, and I wanted to tell you. We recorded that initiative in May 2017, and we are just waiting for September of the same year, because you know that there was at that time a heated debate on the subject of tourism. And I already said that we did not want the issue of the tourist rate to interfere in that other debate. And you've made reference to that. Of course, my group does not intend, when it brings to this House or when it asks the Government about the tourist rate, not that the tourist rate discourages tourism, no. What you are looking for is that you can apply a tool that in our opinion would be fairer for people living in cities, in this case in Donostia, which is doubling the number of tourists visits. And that generates, as I told you before, that local taxes are rising, the local rates that people pay every day in their neighbourhoods, with very important percentages of rise. 15% waste, 11% in water. That for people in their day to day is very important. And it is very nice to go down to the center of Donostia and see everything great and see the tourists delighted with the excellent scenery we have in this city. But people living in neighborhoods, in Altza, in Intxaurrondo, in other neighborhoods, are also suffering from these things. And it's not about going against tourism. But it is about adapting tourism with measures that also avoid negative consequences for people's lives and that can also generate greater inequalities. I also think that you, from what you tell me, well, you haven't just said yes or no to me either. I am going to keep in mind that you will come to the end with the subject of the tourist rate, but we did think that with all the studies that have been done, with the reports that exist, etc., the Government should have been able to be a little more clear in that regard. Above all, if you as a counselor have a favorable position to the tourist rate, you could be more clear in that there are no elements to say that perhaps, when we have the studies, we conclude that it is not good to have a tourist rate. I believe that there is no element to be able to say that and therefore I think that the Basque Government could clearly say that the tourist rate is good, that we are going to have a tourist rate in Euskadi, but that we are going to make the tourist rate appropriate to the reality of Euskadi, on the question of destinations, of what this rate can collect. It is true, and we agree, that a part has to be reinvested in an improvement of the tourism sector itself. But we are going to continue to make a great deal of impact precisely on the fact that it can have an impact on those expenses that originate and that the citizens pay, that the people of the cities pay. For us this is very important and it seems to me that both destinations are not contradictory. Now if the opinion that entrepreneurs in the sector have, it seems to us that well, it has to be taken into account, we are not going to oppose that. But we also ask you to be careful, because entrepreneurs in the sector have specific, legitimate interests, but they have some interests. And we have heard some statements, not from you, from Mr Denis Itxaso in this case, saying that this cannot be done without, say, the "favorable vote" of this sector. Man, I would ask you to be careful here, you have to take them into account, but here the government will have to defend the general interest and not that of a sector of part. Otherwise, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u115	Mr Hernandez, I have already expressed to you my commitment to reach the end, but also to everyone. And, therefore, let me not prejudge the final solution. I have already told you that my position is conceptually favourable, and from the government's responsibility, adapted to the reality of Euskadi. And for starters, I think obviously the sector must also be counted. Among other reasons, for what I have told you, that the taxation of tourism is not limited only to this question of the tourist rate per stay, but that the taxation also refers to all other tourist services, accommodation, transport, tourist intermediaries, etc., which obviously also tax and leave revenue in the arks. By the way, one question. I in taxation, the understanding of taxation that what I generate is left to me, I do not agree at all. When I was talking about the need to think about fate, I am telling you that destiny even in the supramunicipal sphere, because considering only tax in terms of local spending implies a vision of tourism that I obviously do not share, but even of taxation, which I certainly do not share either. I already know that your intention in substance is not that, but the problem is that you end up slipping that kind of interpretation on this issue. That is why I think it is so important that we also discuss the fate of income. And with regard to the differences between how municipal budgets are allocated, to the centre or to the neighbourhoods, when it comes to charging, obviously this question will also allow me to tell you that tourism cannot be blamed for this situation, that this is an old situation, that it is also a situation that affects municipalities that do not have tourism at all and that it is a question of how we use fiscal policy to distribute income, also, for example, at the local level. In any case, as far as the times are concerned, you told me... well, to separate it. Well, by separating it, you in January recorded the interpellation, this interpellation, and requested the substantiation of this interpellation on June 4. I tell him to see again – and in this case he won't tell me that there was an interference of mobilizations – I tell him to see the issue of emergencies. I already know that that is not because you have not worked, but because you have set priorities. My Department, besides tourism, also has other things apart from this tourist rate, it has other elements, and this, as I say to you, is my intention to lead it and bring it to the end, but obviously among the various issues that the Department has, precisely because of this situation of indefiniteness, since it was not at a certain time number one, there were other issues to be resolved, which were much more priority. I reiterate my commitment that, in fact, we will reach the end of and that there will be a serious discussion, because there has been in too many moments... You say there should have been time and studies and reflections for us to make a decision on this. Obviously not, because this study, which has been over-reported as Mark Twain would say, now everyone is waiting to see that study, what that study says. And when I say it to everyone, I say to him different institutions, different departments, that suddenly it seems that not everything was informed and analyzed, because they are asking me now even from the point of view of the press. By the way, this issue has also served – at least for my part – to corroborate that post-truth is not just a matter that is in books and congresses, but that it is practiced in information also, let's say, habitual, and in this case in relation to tourism, because even I did not make statements but, obviously, I did answer saying that the report was not and yet a ball was still created on a report, as I said, non-existent. We will have it at the end of this month, I will analyse it and, as I say, I will take those conclusions first to Eudel and secondly to the sector, and I will also later in the House share with the various parliamentary groups, or in committee, the conclusions that we are coming to, in order to outline that tourist rate and the possibility of that tourist rate and in what way and with what destination, in the specific case of Euskadi. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u116	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of the High Court of Jone, of the parliamentary parliamentary of the EH Collectation against the Chief of Work and Justice, of the Decree of the Juridical Help of Doa." Madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u117	Good afternoon and thank you, Your Honor. Thanks also to the chief physician, to be here today for the effort he had made, and to answer my question. And the question is very simple. All I want is to know is how the Decret is about justice, and especially when it will be. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u118	Thank you, madam. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Goirizelaia, the Free Legal Aid Decree is the formula by which the Administration guarantees every citizen access to justice, regardless of the resources available to them. As a result of the entry into force of the Law on Free Legal Assistance in 1996, a decree of the year 2012 is currently in force in our community. The subsequent legislative amendments have advised the drafting of a new decree, in order to adapt the normative developments and incorporate improvements. Improvements, to correct dysfunctions observed in the practical application, such as reducing the managerial burden, both for the Administration and for the schools and professional persons who provide the service. In short, the aim of this Decree is to achieve the maximum efficiency of the system of free justice and greater recognition of the professionals who exercise it. I answer your question directly, what is the status of the Free Legal Assistance Order? The need to include in the draft decree any amendments that may be required by Law 3/2018 of 11 June and which will take effect on 1 October 2018 is currently under consideration. The adaptations of the project come in memory or in articulation, or in both if necessary, because this Law amends article 6, third paragraph, of the Law on Free Legal Assistance of 1996 and, in relation to the benefits of free legal assistance, incorporates an article, 21 bis, on replacement of the designated professional. The actions I have indicated to you require that the project be reviewed and forwarded to COJUA, the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission, for the preparation of the relevant report. The referral will be made at the beginning of next week. This means that, without the very recent publication of this Law of 3/2018, the decree could have been passed before the end of this month, as it had already been transmitted to it and was planned. I am not going to describe the whole procedure to be followed for the adoption of a decree, although I can tell you that all mandatory reports give security to the rule. To say that it is a decree agreed with the legal operators and reports have been collected from the General Council of the Judiciary, the Basque Council of Law, the Council of Prosecutors of the Basque Country and the official schools of social graduates. The Administration itself has collected reports from DACIMA, Emakunde and Linguistic Standardization, also from the economic control office and Cojua, pending to give this legal validity. A process that becomes excessively long for the final approval of the norm, but that gives us the assurance that we put at the service of society a useful tool, modern, consolidates legal basis. In any case, in this case I am more interested in the substance, of course, than the form, and the content, of course, I think it is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u120	Thank you, Mrs. San José. To answer, madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u121	Counselor, with your answers I usually get in the way of stupefaction, hallucination, and sometimes I think that the counselor goes brown that she has to overcome, to come and answer some things. And I'm gonna tell you why. Because look, I asked you a written question and you answered that the Decree would come into force in January 2018. He told me in writing. I guess when you told me that you already knew that all these reports that you told me were necessary, I guess you had knowledge, by the position you hold as Justice Advisor, of the laws that came into force in 2018, I guess you knew that you were going to see all those changes and knew that with all that, or I thought, that the decree was going to be in effect in January. I asked him and asked him, and you told me here, put here, that he was going to come into force in July and also said, "You already know that." It's June 2018. It has not entered into force in January nor will it enter into force in July. And now he hasn't told me when, because now he can't tell me when, because he doesn't know what's going to happen. I'll tell you one thing, counselor. There's one thing about politics first, and I don't want to teach him lessons and I say it with a lot of respect: never promise what you know you won't be able to do, never promise what you know you won't be able to do and it's not in your hand, never promise what you know you won't be able to do and it has a direct connection with people's rights. And in this case, this decree is directly related to the rights of individuals, the right to free justice is directly related to all those persons who cannot access justice in any other way. It has a direct relationship with abused women, it has a direct relationship with how and how justice is to be administered, and you have promised me that it will be done, and it will not be done. And that's a problem. And then, I find something else. When you give me the explanations... Look, it reminds me a lot of a txistulari from Munguía, who says, "The same passacalle, that we're going down another street." And here, this is exactly the same, the same street pass let's go down the street as we go. The Department does everything right, it does everything perfectly, it has everything controlled, it knows everything how it works, but when it comes here to explain, there is no decree, there are no meeting points, there is no I don't know what, there is no I don't know what. And you, when you came to the Commission's first appearance, told us that this was a priority and you were proud of the amount of money you were going to spend on this. Well, we have a problem, because there's no decree. The delay in the entry into force of this decree causes the entire procedure to be delayed. There's nothing we can do in the last quarter of this year and we'll see what happens. The explanations will have to be given by you, Madam Counsellor, to the citizens who, because this does not come into force, will have their rights violated, in this case, by this action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u122	Thank you, madam. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u123	Mrs Goirizelaia, I think I have already told you in this rostrum, indeed, that in July it was going to come into force and it could not be. Law 3/2018 has entered into force that obliges us to make changes. But, in any case, I am going to take responsibility for what belongs to me not for a processing of a decree, which involves many departments, involves many organs and that some run out of time, others call for enlargements... I tell you, I'm responsible for what's mine. And with regard to that, to say that, of course, the decree will come into force as soon as possible, which will be revised once, and not to issue a decree and that it should be amended as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-22.u124	Thank you, Chief, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty minutes.
