ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u0	We'll begin the entire gathering with a minute's silence, the memory of Enrique Casas and Ferdinand Bues. [[Pause]] Before we start, I inform you that the second point has been left for another, so the first point on the subject list is: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH gatherings, the planning to promote public investments in the EAE industrial agency. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn, Mr. Casanova, is yours to present and defend the action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u1	Hello. Good morning, everyone. For the fourth time in a few weeks' time, we will discuss this legislature directly or indirectly around the fund of investment which the Government intends to set up, this subject has been discussed in several parliamentary enterprises, as I said in the last few weeks: We have discussed another proposition of the law, an interpelation, and an occurrence of the chief physician. Today, as I was saying, we shall speak for the fourth time about the same subject, but we believe that we shall make a contribution or progress at present, apart from disputes, because we come with an agreement, with a large agreement. It will be an extensive agreement for its protection, and for the protection of many political forces, and a vast deal of agreement with the council, because the brain of the subject is well and broader. It's true that this miniature cycle of discussions has certainly been the operation that the government performed in CAF in January to make an economic investment in this company. The operation, which could make agreement in the world, became at last a fairly controversial one, and if I say that it would make a peace in the heart, that is, I believe, in this House, and in this society, an extensive majority is on the side of public investments, and may be on the side of public capital industries. But there was a controversy about it, as we thought, as we said at that time, and now confirm it, though this was not the central matter today, because the forms were not adequate. I believe that we have seen several elements of this operation which have been concerned with us, and which consequently have been urged by so many of our enterprises from our part of the community, and by other members of the legislature, and that, at least in a short time, these enterprises are at an end, because I believe that we have arrived at a point of harmony, and even at a point of clarity. We realized that the important agents were not informed of the government plans, and that the important agents who have been summoned to share this private public funds did not know or hear of what was expected of them. We saw in the government that it was the default of this operation that the communicative needs were more than deeply connected. We also saw opposite statements from several spokesman of the Government, opposed statements about the dates and the characterizations of that principle. And that's why we expressed our concern at that moment, and the interpelration and the motion that came out of our concern. And I was saying that at last, I think, we've reached a point of infulxio in regard to this matter. In his time, the government said at one point of that controversy around CAF that he wanted to send a clear message to the government's engagement. We said that it was not the proper form and the reverse message: a message of not being clear about clearness, precision, and things. Baina gaur, today, I do believe that society and all economic actors are being sent the right message regarding the public-private investment fund that the Government has announced it will launch. A proper message, because today, through the agreement that we are going to adopt in this House, we are going to talk about this fund clearly, we are going to talk with rigour, we are going to talk with definition and we are going to talk with transparency, elements that, so far, have shone because of their absence. And so, bringing all this into this fund is the message of credibility that the Government needed to launch an operation that, broadly and broadly, and in the terms defined in the agreement that we have reached today, is supported by EH Bildu. Because at the heart of the matter is to invest public money in the industrial enterprises of this country in order to increase their roots and improve their management, an approach with which from the left one can only agree. And we also send not only that message of clarity, rigour, definition and transparency, but also the message of agreement itself, the very support with which this House is going to give this project of the Government today, is a strong message to the socio-economic agents, that they believe in the fund, that they are involved in the fund and that they see that this fund is not a bet of a party or of a government, but that it is a bet that can be defined in terms of country. As I was saying, today's agreement indicates clarity around a number of items that have never been so clear before. And, further, I believe that he carefully enumerates all the elements which surround the origin of this substance, and it exports clearness and accuracy in all these elements. And if, for the first time, we have to talk about industrial investments in this country, evidently the situation of the Arkbanks must be the starting-point. We have announced, or the Ark has announced, and here we have accused the impact of this decision, because the Ark has announced that he must perform a wide deviation of his investment industry. This process is in progress, and the result of this process will destroy a very important part of the Euscal capital which is held in hand. The trunk has announced the intention of spending more than $1,500 million, so that any discussion in public investments must have a position on it. And by this agreement, we ask the Arkbankki, and we know that he has legal and necessary limits, and that the European rule has been sharpened to increase the control of the banks for years, and that this has consequences in the freedom of the Arkbanks when he manages his wallet. But we ask with all our solemnity to limit this lawless process of perversion to the minimum legal and not to go beyond one millimeter, because we can't allow them to extract more than is necessary from the hands of the Euskal. We ask the law not to be strictly followed and beyond, and in this process of desertion, to examine together with the Basque institutions, the best means to transfer the capital into the hands of the rest of the Euscal, so as not to weaken our attachment to the control and to the country around our strategic enterprises. And we think it's a fundamental starting-point, we'd do a very bad business if we wanted to fill a barrel, if there's a hole in that barrel and there's more water than we can get out of that hole. It must, therefore, be a starting-point to ask in the Ark to limit this process of disinterestedness to the minimum. We demand also light to the Government, and demand the Government to bring its planning of private public funds to this parliament plainly and distinctly, and we add a time to it. We shall know before June, for once for all, the plan of Government, as far as the funds are concerned, and the dance of information which we have hitherto lived, the dance of numbers, the dance of dates, and, in truth, we shall have the whole plan defined on the table. We're also asking him to find an interview in that process with the socionomical agents...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u3	Gentlemen, it is another important element, in which we are always engaged in the general public interest by this agreement. And we know that if they're involved in an investment fund, especially private agents, there's been a few demands of income, and we think that the fund will be profitable. But it is not in the least the object of this principle to inquire into profitableness, and still less to search for income in a short time. The main object is to increase the enthusiasm of the troops, and even to assist them in the service. And for this purpose, travelrs or fellow-members who are entering on this ground must have a great deal of light to share in the nature and purposes of this substance, and we make it clear in this agreement. Another important element is the nature of the substance, the economic doctrine of the substance. We think we put a figure on the table, 250 million, and we understand it as a starting point. And we know that the government will tell us it's gonna be hard to get that number, but we think it's clear on a theoretical plane. Needs are much larger than that number, and the door must be left open if the capitalation of that funds is completing the argument, and if things go well, there is a quantity of it to go beyond 250 million, and the ambition of that substance to be much greater. We also demand that, in this agreement, a reflection should be made, when the new fund enters into force, because it is very clear that the origin of this foundation will be involved in the system of nature, and we must examine this system of funds from time to time, in order to appreciate its efficiency. The funds must be examined separately, if new funds are required, whether some funds should disappear, and whether to improve the course of a fund. And we also place this on the table, because we think it is indispensable to the origin of the new fruit. And one last thing which we demand in this agreement seems very important to us: As soon as the government buys industrial interventions, it will acquire rights to participate in the administration of corporations, and sometimes it will be a minor co-operation, which will also gain the right to enter the councils of administration in others, and not only by this fund, but by other grounds already existing and working. And we ask that these participations and the use of the rights to participate in, should be a strict continuation of the management. You can't repeat things that happened with Xey in our town, or things that happened with CEL. It can't be allowed to have a company with a public intervention driven to bankrupt and abyss. Government's presence must be a guarantee between a council of administration or the stockholders, to have some social standards in this company, to develop a general interest and a strong industrial policy, and not to repeat the notes we've lived in the past. That is why we believe that the implementation of this fund, with the definition framework that is given to the agreement that we have reached today, is a gamble or a turning point in this country's industrial policy. At least we hope so. We hope that this will be the opening of a stage in which the Government takes on more active and courageous commitments in the leadership of industrial policy. We welcome the arrival of this fund. We hope that this will be a fund that can be strengthened in the future. We also hope that this Government's commitment to public investment in companies in this country will not be isolated. We need a government that leads industrial policy, the countries of our environment, the reference countries in the field of industry have governments that act without complexes in the promotion and defense of their industry. The existence of public participation in industrial enterprises is no exception, it is something that works in countries in our environment, such as France and Germany, and it is something that we need to strengthen. They are countries that defend their industry without complexity, that invest in it, that support sectors, such as the shipbuilding sector or the steel industry, even when they are in difficulty. And we hope – as he said – that the creation of this fund will bring about a change in the policy of this government towards a more active vision and towards a more unemployable leadership. Because we need a government that leads the industrial policy, without invading the competences that are typical of companies, but assuming without complexes its own role of leading the industrial policy of the country, with ambition, marking challenges and trying to keep economic and business players in the right direction. If this is the beginning – as I said – of a more proactive policy, on the way you will find Euskal Herria Bildu, as you have found her with responsibility in supporting the creation of the new investment fund. If it is an isolated fact, here we have met and reached a good agreement. But as I said, if it is the beginning of a new policy, we will meet again and, for our part, we will come forward with a proposal in the coming weeks on a fundamental issue also for the future of the country such as R & D, a proposal that is already registered to reach 3% of investment in R & D, and we hope that the agreement that has been generated today can also be given in an aspect as vital as this, and from then on – as I said – where there is proactivity and public leadership, Euskal Herria Bildu will support industrial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u5	President, chief physician, good morning to all. The Union has not been completed for a month, and we've already talked three times about financial funds, and probably it won't be the last. We have been critics on our team and will continue to criticize the management of the government in this matter. So we can't support our funk and we can't vote for us today. They've come to a transaction called EHG, and the teams that protect YAY and we can't give our support until we get the information we're missing and we can clear up the dark information. Venture capital funds are the main tool of this country's industrial policy, and these venture capital funds have been managed, managed, opacity and inconsistently. Today, the Government has a range of funds in which there is no clear analysis, either of investment strategies or of disinvestment strategies. You don't know why you can leave a company like CEL just when it's going to break. It is not known why they are given 50,000 euros of R & D to Xey the year it will close. It is not known why General Electric is given 645,000 euros of the Indartu Plan and then General Electric returns and closes them. There is nothing known about economic performance, eye, I am talking about economic performance, not financial performance. There is no link between the losses of the funds and the number of companies that have been consolidated. There is no complete information, there is a quantitative evaluation, but there is no real qualitative evaluation, and there is no evaluation and therefore there is no intention to restructure existing funds, there are duplicate funds, there are funds that are not meeting their objectives. Nor is there any intention to regulate important issues such as investment committees, their composition and functioning, or the transparency that should govern public policies. There is, of course, no intention to regulate what is the representation of the Government and what is its mission in the companies involved, and, in the transaction to which it has arrived today and which will be voted, in point six, it is clear: "That Parliament urges the Basque Government to monitor the activity of the company and to ensure that this activity is properly developed from the perspective of general interests and industrial policy". And what has been done so far? Has this not been a principle that should have governed the government's policy in this area? Why have you been participating in Alfa Lan and allowed the directors, the management team, to take two and a half million euros into your pocket? Why didn't having 30% in the Xey company know it was going to close? Why did he leave CEL just when the company was worse? Not only do we lack information. There is information that is dark and doubtful, such as the information that has been transferred to us on the 250 million euro fund. A fund that is said to be 250 million euros, but only 40. A fund that is said to be public-private, but that all the money is public, there are no private investors. What kind of information is that? What kind of information is it that tells us that shares are bought from the CAF for their opportunity when it is public and notorious that they are bought for improving Kutxabank's solvency ratio? Therefore, we cannot support points three, four and five of the compromise reached until point number two is fulfilled, which says: "Let the proposal for a public-private investment fund which was announced in the first half of the year be presented in Parliament, and let us not continue to buy shares if we do not yet have a definition of what this fund is going to be like". When I speak of dark and dubious information, of course I have to refer to Kutxabank's portfolio of industrial holdings. Councillor Azpiazu tells us that it is a private bank, and yet the owners are three bank foundations that are under the protection of the Basque Government. The Basque Government therefore has a mission on this issue. And this equity portfolio had 4.6 billion in January 2012 and in December 2016 it has only 2.7 billion left. 2 billion in industrial holdings of companies that are not known where they have ended up. Some have actually come out in the bag, but where are the others? Are they in the foundations? Are they in private companies? There is no clear information on this. What portfolio does Kutxabank have today? What are you gonna do with that wallet? Is there a disinvestment plan? Nobody knows, we've asked, it hasn't happened. It is therefore essential to reach a conclusion such as that reached at point one of the transaction and it is that the Basque Parliament shows its concern about the process of selling Kutxabank's industrial holdings, and calls for the search for the most effective ways in collaboration with the institutions to keep these capitals in Basque hands. But today we act as if we didn't know, and yet Councilwoman Tapia has been with Gregorio Villalabeitia and needs to know that information. Surely Mr Azpiazu knows her too, why does this Parliament not know her? Why doesn't society know her? Why is it not known what Kutxabank is going to do with its 2.5 billion industrial holdings? So there's a lot of information missing. There is also a lack of transparency, and of course there is no consistency. Between what you're saying and what you're doing, there's a great deal of space, and that's why we don't agree with the industry policies that Euko would have done so far. The essence of this industry policy is the fund of investment, and these funds have hitherto been badly handled without concealment and without transparency. And we need more than fine words to change the situation, precise actions must also be put into action, which we are going to require commitments to-day. It is necessary to straighten out the dubious and erratic course of the industrial policy of the Basque Government, but this is not a one-day thing, this is not a transaction, unfortunately, and this is not a question of nice words. They're facts. They're commitments. And that is why our group today will only support three points of this compromise reached by the EH Bildu group with the groups supporting the Government, three clear commitments, and we will have a critical position to see whether these three points are actually being met. The first one. A clear request to Kutxabank and the foundations that are its owners so that the process of divestment does not mean the loss of roots of Basque companies that are participating today. A clear commitment to Kutxabank to launch its divestment program. Second. That the Basque Government present here in Parliament, in six months, the design of the fund for the uprooting of companies and that it design it jointly with the socio-economic agents. Thirdly, that the Basque Government should once and for all use its participations to ensure that the activities of the participating companies are carried out in accordance with the collective interests and not, as is often the case, in accordance with the interests of the management teams, which have nothing to do with the interests of the staff or with the interests of this country. Therefore, as I say, our support will be timely and critical to some of the points of this transaction, but in no way must it be understood as support, as support for the erratic and dubious industrial policy that the Government is following in this area. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u7	Thank you, President. Egun on. We are faced with an initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu which starts from an inquiry on 9 February, based, according to Bildu, on the lack of coherent and continuous planning by the Basque Government, and which did not include the purchase operation of 1.24% of CAF's shares. And while the motion now aims, according to the title, at planning for the promotion of public investment in enterprises in the Basque industrial sector, the reality is that the resolutive part has little to do with that claim, from my humble opinion, as it raises the concern about Kutxabank and the disinvestments. It has four points dedicated exclusively to the public-private fund of EUR 250 million, not to the planning of financial instruments, and has its motion a point dedicated to the actions to be carried out by the Basque Government through its shareholder participation. And the Basque Socialists, on this occasion, as we did a few weeks ago, we reiterate our commitment to support the Basque Government in enhancing the financing of SMEs, urging it to structure the investment fund of 250 million, so that it operates with an unequivocal industrial vocation, capacity for economic development and willingness to generate employment. We also call for the revision of financial instruments and industrial assistance programmes in collaboration with economic and social actors, to increase their effectiveness in consolidating employment, both present and future, by guaranteeing credit to SMEs and promoting productive investment in strategic and sustainable sectors. And this agreement of February 1st in this House, together with the government agreement signed between Basque Socialists and Nationalists, plus the government programme for this legislature and the framework programme for employment and economic recovery, and also the Industry Plan 2017-2020, ultimately constitute a whole compendium of agreements, commitments, objectives, lines of action, and, ultimately, a political planning, specifically of the industrial sector, of industrial policy and what are its components for the period we are in until 2020. And these are the elements on which the Socialists base our opinion, contrary to that expressed at the time by Bildu, both in his inquiry and in the Committee on Economic Development and Infrastructure on 6 February. Because there, in that committee, he criticized the improvisation of the Basque Government with regard to public policies on Basque industry, on its financial instruments of support throughout this legislature. And the Basque Socialists do not in any way share the expression of lack of planning. Basque industrial policy and its financing instruments may not be shared and supported, or unsatisfactory, but the Socialists do not assume that there is no planning, either in industrial policy or in the financial instruments that support it, that drive it or encourage it. The 2017-2020 Industry Plan called for the management of financial instruments and the creation of a public-private fund, and said the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure on 6 February, something that the Socialists, being part of this government, also share, and that is that the reorganization and modification is being carried out in part of the financial instruments, as well as the modification of the financing policy of the industry. And therefore, because there is a new economic situation, it has allowed us to face new situations and to be able to converge in an improvement of the economic situation at general level, also by the Basque Government, with respect to the previous legislature. The Basque Socialists do believe that public policies regarding Basque industry have been the result of such planning. It was said days ago that the European Union regarded our industrial planning as a model and that the International Labour Organization itself considered them well planned and well thought out in terms of financial instruments. And a planning resulting from a continuous trajectory over time gives stability to industrial policy, something which the Basque Economic and Social Council has also appreciated in the policy of the Basque Government. And financial tools are fundamental elements for the development of Basque industry and public policies. These well-defined, planned and well-developed public policies undoubtedly contribute to the objective of improving the economic sector. And the decisions that have to do with industrial financing are therefore neither improvised nor isolated occurrences proposed at the beginning of the day of I do not know what specific interests of a given situation. They follow a strategy and respond to the needs that have been presented over time, and they also respond to a thorough analysis of what funding instruments we need at this time, and the most appropriate ones that can be put on the table to support and accompany our companies. And the new public-private fund of EUR 250 million is intended to ensure, on the one hand, the growth of our companies and the root of them; it is designed for companies with technological potential and presence in global markets. And, as the adviser also said, the Government establishes the reordering of financial instruments by two premises, the one of opportunity and the one of necessity. Opportunity because we are in a new legislature, with new plans under way and a new economic situation or situation different from that of the previous legislature; and necessity, because if the needs of the industry change, the instruments, the financial tools must adapt to the new circumstances and, therefore, the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure and the Department of Finance of the Basque Government have a wide range of instruments that meet the different needs. That is why it is also important to review in depth and reorder the instruments of different funds that we have, to cover precisely those different niches of action and to detect those in which we are not participating, but always following the path of what has been approved in the Industrialization Plan. That is why the Socialists welcome the fact that the debate on the financing and public investment of companies in the industrial sector in Euskadi today finds a number of factors complementary to the debate a couple of weeks ago in this House, in which we take a political stand on Kutxabank's disinvestments, which it announced in 2016, and which it is carrying out so that they in no case exceed the regulatory limits established by Europe, because we understand that it is an important element to take into account in the economic field of Euskadi and in its most important sector, which is industry. We also agree that the public-private fund will be presented in the first half of this year, something to be advised also announced on 6 February, and we were informed of the status of the fund and the Government's claims regarding the partners. Therefore, a compendium of information that the adviser already established on that occasion and that today has found fit, adaptation, in an amendment of consensus and in agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu. And, as I say, I am pleased with the agreement, I welcome it, but it has little to do with the title of the instrument planning motion or the financing of Basque companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u9	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. Ever since my fun announced the creation of a new public private fund, it's been repeated in this parliament. He appeared at the board, even at the whole meeting, by means of the interpenetrations and the consequent motives, and finally in the discussion of the present day. I'll announce to you that we've made the middle course. This has given us a chance to let many points of view come to an end in a vast agreement. This should be useful for us to end the discussion and row where we all agree. The fact that we have been in this Chamber from the very beginning of the law is, on the contrary, that everyone is important to him. Since the Government had already announced in its legislative programme the creation of the new public-private fund for industrial investment, all parliamentary groups had issued opinions on it, which they had raised when such a fund became more concrete in the Industrialization Plan, discussed and approved in October last year. This Plan contains several resolutions on the famous fund and we have already held, among others, the debate on whether to subsume in other pre-existing funds or whether, as has definitely been clarified, it should be a new, independent fund with its own criteria and objectives. On the one hand, in the compromise that we have presented today, we have agreed that the Government should explain to us, when it is completed and in a parliamentary committee, what the fund definitely consists of, who its partners are and how it conforms. Although the counselor's last appearance already showed us that she was working on the matter, even commenting that they have already contacted some EPSV and some financial institution, which in advance already point out good disposition. That is to say, we are working seriously, and sooner we will know its structure in this House. On the other hand, the Government is asked for something that also seems logical, that the new fund prioritizes the general public interest and the roots of companies, which, by the way, is already described in the Industrialization Plan. The government has never been misled by anything other than the public interest, the country's interest, the building of a country. That, too, is pointed out in the transaction, without renouncing profitability. I insist, it is an irrefutable goal if we want such a fund to work, to serve what has been created and to be accompanied by private partners. As the proposed fund seems to like it, we have agreed to ask the Government, once it meets the target of EUR 250 million provided for in the Industrialization Plan, not to stand there and try to make it grow. This proposal does seem very important to us and is illustrative because – and this must be emphasized – we also agree that investment funds are a good way of doing industrial policy, their main way, and that it is also the collaboration between public and private money. This section of this transaction has the relevance of supporting the Government's policy, of telling it that it is doing well and that, to the extent possible, it is deepening that path. It is also true that the emergence of this new fund will require a thorough reflection on all the financial instruments available to the Government. And, for that reason, the signatory groups propose that the Government carry out that reflection. Which, by the way, was already discussed during the Industrialization Plan and, shortly afterwards, was also commented by Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia the day she appeared to explain the entry into CAF through Socade. It must be done without a priori, but it must be reconsidered whether the number of instruments available to the Government is sufficient, excessive, cover all possible flanks or whether there is any uncovered. In short, a reflection to debug leftovers and cover gaps. And finally, we ask the government, by taking advantage of its investment in different companies through its various funds, to do so by accompanying them and helping to make the best decisions. I am sure the government already does, but now it will continue to do so knowing that Parliament understands and asks it to do so. Maybe it's not necessary to say "Fuck you." In fact, it's his will to do it, to put it in place, as the new funding of Eukong's industry is being structured. But the importance of this medium is this: I mean, we're just suggesting that we're laughing and that we're helping him in his niceties, in this case his industry in politics and so on, we're all getting on together. I am sure that in an essential part of Euskadi's industrial policy, such as that of structuring public industrial investment funds and creating a new large entity with private participation, that this path along the path of the agreement of the parliamentary political forces, will be seen with good eyes by the socio-economic agents, business organizations and trade unions, all this will be seen with very good eyes. I know that this is not a blank cheque to the government either, and I know that we will still be discussing from our different points of view other aspects of Euskadi's industrial policy. But I have the feeling that today we have taken a very important step towards establishing an agreed basis for working on the financial instruments in support of Euskadi's industrial policy and basically the essential work of establishing tractor companies in Euskadi, which will help to create new industries and create new jobs. And this is to start well, in one of the pillars of Euskadi's industrial policy and this is to allow the agreement to continue on other aspects of that policy. When a text like today is negotiated, I believe that the most important thing is to highlight what we have in common with an economic and political objective, and to leave for other debates what can differentiate us. Therefore, I understand that today is the day to demonstrate the agreement, that we are already going to have many other disagreements, even today we have had them, like that of Elkarrekin Podemos, although then it turns out that its own political group in the Congress of Deputies in Madrid invites Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia to give a conference on industrial policy, and I think not to criticize it, but to the contrary. In any case, I would like to take this opportunity, of course, to invite all the parliamentary groups, so that, on the basis of an agreement at the level of public and public-private industrial investment funds, we can continue to make progress. Do not hesitate to make efforts for the agreement, do not hesitate. The companies, the workers and the country, I'm sure, will thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A group that hasn't announced any correction, Popular, Monsieur Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the third debate in three months on the same subject. Because it is the same debate that we had in the Industrial Plan in October, in which this was already being discussed; it is the same debate that we had in the past plenary on 1 February, in which this was being discussed, and even today, in the compromise, there are some points that we have already adopted in that debate. And perhaps the novelty is that, in the end, groups that voted against the Industry Plan, or that 15 days ago did not support the compromise amendment that was adopted in this Parliament, because today it seems to them that it seems good that this fund is being created, of which we are happy, that more people and more groups are joining, or that it seems good to you. Perhaps the only new thing we see is that the Government is being urged to bring the Plan to Parliament in the first half of the year, which would not be six months from now, the first half of the year would end in June, it is almost the end of February, and therefore it is not six months, but we hope that the Government will meet that deadline. And when you present that fund, I guess we'll see if we all agree on how it works or how it doesn't work, or how it's going to work or how it's not going to work. We, of course, have already voted almost all of this here in the Industry Plan, we have already voted on it the other day, on 1 February, and, therefore, it is normal that we also vote today. Now, they're going to let me at least show my surprise about the first point of your transaction. And I show my surprise because you, the groups that support the government and the EH Bildu group, join Kutxabank with the foundations. And they're not the same. And they urge foundations to do the same thing as Kutxabank, and it's not the same. It is not the same, and I say to myself: foundations have no problem with holding shares in companies, whether industrial or non-industrial, and have no limit, and they do not put Europe or anyone else. Moreover, when they were created, I remember that the approach was that it was good that these foundations, in addition to having Kutxanbak shares, had holdings of other companies, because that diversified, let's say, the revenues of these foundations and guaranteed them better to be able to do their social work. And man, let's see, I'm starting from the base that this first paragraph of the transaction is not going to change, but I don't understand why foundations are urged not to divest beyond the mandatory, when they have no obligation to divest, but, theoretically, the agreement was the opposite, that is, that the participations that Kutxabank had were passed to the foundations. And the fund that was now being created was supposed to be not to replace the foundations in that reinvestment, to say the least, but to invest in other assets. And that's why I'm surprised that at this first point, he mixed Kutxabank with the foundations that control the boxes, saying those foundations that don't invest beyond what is legally allowed, when the foundations have no legal investment problem. And, finally, I hope that it is a mistake of the groups that have signed the transaction, that it is an amendmentable one and that, finally, we all agree, let us all agree that the foundations that control Kutxabank themselves may have and may be involved in participations in Basque or non-Basque industrial enterprises, which they deem appropriate and, of course, give them greater benefits in order to maintain their social work. And in everything else, I repeat, of course we were already in favour of the fund, that the other instruments are being reviewed already in the Industry Plan and, therefore, we continue to maintain the same thing that we have maintained since October. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u13	I'll start at the end to reassure Mr. Damborenea. The agreement we have reached specifically talks about the divestment process being carried out by the Kutxabank banking institution. We are not talking about banking foundations being immersed in any process of disinvestment, and you have said, and you are right, one thing is Kutxabank and another thing the banking foundations, but they have a relationship, a meaningful relationship; the banking foundations are the owners of Kutxabank and, therefore, they will have to say something about the things that you do or stop doing Kutxabank. And, therefore, the appeal to bank foundations is not so much that they do not divest, that they have not expressed intention to divest, but that, as owners of Kutxabank, they ensure that, in fact, the process of divestment is the minimum required by European legality and, in addition, that channels of communication are established with the Basque institutions, so that in that process we do not end up losing control over the capital of the companies from which Kutxabank withdraws. I believe that, therefore, the matter is quite clear. There have been some attempts to undervalue the agreement that we have reached today, to say that what is said here was already said on other occasions, but here it is being put for the first time black on white and giving the seal of a parliamentary agreement to things that had not been done so far, starting with the beginning and for which we have just referred. It is the first time that, with this solemnity and within this framework, Kutxabank is asked to do this process with the preventions and limits that are being pointed out here. I also have doubts about the position of some parliamentary groups. In the case of Elkarrekin I do not know whether you are in favour of this fund being set up, in the course of the various debates that we have had the doubt that I have left is that, what is the problem, because clarity is called for, and here, indeed, we are asking for clarity. Transparency is called for and transparency is called for in this agreement. It calls for social partners and, in fact, here or there is a call for social actors. There is even doubt, the intention has been expressed not to vote on the fourth point calling for an extension to the 250 million. And I do not understand from a left-wing perspective why a government should be asked not to make public investments in industrial enterprises. In fact, I would venture to say that it is a little counter-current to the cycle of neoliberalism prevailing in our environment, that a government, precisely instead of betting on privatization – even if it is through this light, which is not, in fact, nationalizing companies but is by the way of the most obvious legality – enters to take part in industrial enterprises in order to guarantee their root in the country, that is, with a public service functionality, and in addition, to ensure that the management of these companies is carried out according to parameters of general interest. I do not understand from a left-wing point of view what objection could be put to this approach, or why we seek to limit the amount of this fund or do not support the possibility of extending it, because that does not exempt us or oblige us to stop criticizing the industrial policy of this government. I have criticized the industrial policy of this government on numerous occasions. Only in reference to the issue we are dealing with today, regarding the purchase of shares of CAF: in the first non-law proposal that we discuss this House, throughout the inquiry and during the Councillor's appearance. And I will continue to criticize the industrial policy of the Government in all those aspects that it considers necessary to criticize. But my role, and I believe that the role of political groups, is not to criticize industrial policy from the point of view of urgency, to criticize because it is, but to criticize what is not agreed with. And if the government has put on the table a background that from a left-wing and progressive point of view is good for this society, we can, as we have done so far, criticize the forms, we can criticize the indefinition, the obscurantism, the lack of clarity, the contradictions, things that we have criticized over time. But when the opportunity arises to, in addition to criticizing, take part in correcting those aspects that are criticized, then I believe that what makes no sense is to continue criticizing what is manifested purpose to correct. If in the future we were to find that the agreement that has been signed today is not being implemented in any of its aspects, in fact, there we would again take the whip out of criticism, but if we understand that we have contributed to this fund being made more clearly and transparent, and dedicated to what has to be dedicated, which is to ensure the general interest, I believe that we have achieved an important achievement. As mentioned above, when we come up with an agreement under the arm, I prefer to underline the virtues of that agreement and to underline the points of meeting between the parties that we have reached that agreement, because I believe it is the most positive and constructive way of doing things. Actually, here many times we disagree, sometimes vehemently, we come to shock, but other times we come to agreements and when that happens we have to put it in value. That does not mean, in fact, that if industrial policy continues to present the shortcomings that we believe it has presented so far, we will not be as critical as we should be; but in respect of this fund there is a framework of understanding. When the proposal is presented – we have managed to put in place a timetable and form for its public presentation – we will see if those aspects that are not covered by this agreement and on which...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u14	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u15	... we feel –bai, oraintxe bertan – we feel free to give our opinion, whether we agree or not, and in that case the debate will be reopened but already on a concrete proposal that will quantify the funds, that identifies investors, that marks the deadlines, the legal forms that will be given to them, and, above all, that which does not appear in this agreement, because we will reopen the debate again and it will be possible to coincide or not. But it is important that the country and society be sent the message that this fund has broad support and does not respond to a partisan policy, but rather responds to a country policy that this government and this administration believe, bet and invest in their industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u17	I, Mr. Casanova, do share the spirit that prompted you to present this motion, 100%. Indeed, as a party, as a coalition of the left, I cannot be against a government investing in companies that can either be in difficulty, that there is no talk of this, or they may need to be rooted, I completely agree. And I can also agree that a specific fund is created. It is true that our group has said that those who already exist should be studied first, but a priori I am not against it. Indeed, our group will pronounce itself when the final design of that fund arrives, but right now we do not have that design. And the problem of the transaction to which you have come has left it perfectly summarized by Mr Telleria. He said "this transaction allows us to tell the government that it's going well, that it's going well." Mr. Telleria and I, our group disagreed with that. The Government is not doing well, the Government has a specific, inconsistent and erratic funding policy. It is incoherent and this transaction, moreover, incurs a double incoherence. On the one hand, Mr Tellería also says that this fund must be created without a prioriism, and yet at point three you are definitely talking about incorporating private partners, with which a group of leftists does not necessarily have to agree. And at the fourth point it says you can extend your amount, if we still don't know if we're going to spend what's there. Are you in favour of expanding the Bideratu Berria that has helped four companies? In theory, yes, but if it has only helped four companies, the first thing that will have to be analyzed is whether it works or not. And point five says, "Create the background and then reflect on those that already exist." No, if our group says it's the other way around, first think about what's already there and then see if we have to create the funds. That is why we do not support points 3, 4 and 5. Not because the spirit of his motion is not laudable, it is. And indeed the points that we are going to adopt are those which contain three clear commitments for the Government. Commitments that the government is obliged from today, and in that I agree with you, to fulfill. If you don't fulfill them, don't think I'm going to blame you, or the responsibility, as the rest of the groups will surely do: "No, you agreed on February 22, 2018. You agreed, don't regret it now." And they'll tell you until 2025, I'm sure. Our group isn't going to do that. What our group is going to do is call for the three commitments we are going to support to be met. And there are three clear commitments. One, ask the banking foundations to please present here the disinvestment plan Kutxabank has today, to know whether those companies in which they are going to disinvest will continue to be rooted in Euskadi or not. The second point, clearly, is that the final design of the new fund is presented in six months. And indeed, when that design is presented, if we agree as a group, we will definitely support it, because, as you say, a fund that is going to take part in companies, is a good fund for the country. And thirdly, clearly, that the Government does something that it has not done so far: that, with the participations it already has, it is involved in the management of companies so that these companies meet their objective, not only business, but also the objective they have for the country. And that is our commitment, so we are not going to make a radical opposition to this compromise agreement, but obviously it is going to be critical support for the points that we believe are reasonable. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u19	Yes, thank you, President. The Basque Socialists welcome the agreement that we have been able to reach today, because we understand that it is also support for the need for public investment in industrial enterprises. And in the question that Bildu made at the time, and which motivated this motion, Mr. Casanova said, "we want to know what the Government really intends to do in this strategic area, we want to know what deadlines it envisages for this, we want to know what dimension this fund is to be given, what characterization, when it will come into force...". And we believe that society has the right to know and to exchange views on the subject and to have a political debate. And that is achieved with today's agreement. We all hear in committee the position of the Basque Government in this regard too. We were informed there that the industrial investments in companies dedicated to entrepreneurship were 60, with an inverted amount of more than 21 million euros. Investments in development of all types of companies with all kinds of funds, this (...) was 39 and amounted to more than 60 million euros invested. In public funds such as this, in Sustapen, in Basque, in Lanpar, 80 million are invested and public participation is thought and worked out and has been developed with the corresponding analysis in the investment committee. And participations have been made in sectors from aeronautics, automotive, bioscience, electronics, steel, ICT or any other sector. And this investment work intends to continue with this public-private fund of 250 million euros, without limit. But the counselor also told us: "I wish it was 250 million, it's going to cost you, it's going to be a challenge." Well, if it can be more, better than better. And that is also achieved through this agreement. And we believe that industrial policy must have stability, must have continuity over time. And the financing instruments that accompany it drive and encourage it, must also have a continuous trajectory over time. This is not an obstacle for these instruments to be reviewed, they must be rearranged on the basis of modifications, also of emerging and ending needs. It is what has been done now, it is what is also set out in the Industrialization Plan 2017-2020. Therefore, if the lines of work are defined in industrial policy, if funding is well planned, as has also been recognised by other bodies at European and international level, what remains is to be aware of the need to evaluate these instruments and know the drift they are taking, whether or not they adapt to the needs they are trying to meet and, if they are not adapted, rearrange them, revise them and rectify them, which is also wise to rectify. The important thing for the Basque Socialists, therefore, is to have financial instruments, those financial instruments that will enable us to promote and strengthen the competitiveness of companies. And today, with this agreement, we have tried to take a step further in our understanding of a political agreement on industrial action, and we understand that we are deepening that agreement which we adopted two weeks ago in this House as well. For my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u21	I'll scream. Very briefly. First to ratify what Mr Casanova said about the foundations. Foundations are appealed, and if one sees the original of the amendment submitted by EH Bildu, they speak of the foundations as owners of Kutxabank. We talk about foundations, we don't tell foundations that they don't invest, everything counts. You know it's not like that. Another thing is that in the transaction because that piece disappears, but it appeals to the foundations for that reason, simply, it is not... And in any case, Mr Becerra, there are times when you get tired: as you self-qualify yourself from the left, you requalify me from the right. Look, on this subject you are neither left nor I right, and to the covenants you come because each one gives in. The problem is when by the postureum, for what they will say, one does not want to be with the other and on subtleties walls rise up. Okay. And then the effort to be made of Lluis Llach de L'estaca's song "stirem per qui, estrem per allà", is becoming bigger and bigger. And you put yourself in a position and put others back in such a position that it takes a lot of effort. In this case, with EH Bildu we have made an effort, but smaller, because no one has wanted to keep the posture of not wanting to be. We wanted to be because they unite us, regardless of political positions, that you will know what they would definitely be if we started to deepen. It has brought us together the possibility of moving forward in building tools to build a country, that's what has brought us together. And I come here to say that that's okay and that reaching agreements is okay. What's not worth doing here is I'm from here and you're from there: raising the wall. But then in Madrid, which you don't know about, I invite you to come and explain to me what you're doing because I like it, that's what you can't do. In any case, I will insist that the agreement is good and that this agreement should be something that allows us to move forward in other areas of industrial policy, and do not hesitate that we will not put ourselves in a right, nor in the centre, nor in mid-pensionism, nor will you place ourselves on the left. With the idea of building a country they will have us during this legislature ready to look and deepen the industrial policy of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Basque Popular, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, we will accept the interpretation that both Mr Telleria and Mr Casanova make of the first paragraph, but it will be with me that the foundations, in addition to the owners, are foundations, are institutions, and have their own capacity to act and, in this case, let us say that the Basque Parliament has more capacity to urge foundations than the Kutxabank itself as a bank. Secondly, I do not underestimate the agreement, I give it the importance that a group like yours, Mr Casanova, should join the agreement, because on 1 February we voted for the constitution of the fund, which is repetitive of what we voted for in October. And on 1 February we also voted to review the other financial instruments: that is what is being proposed and voted on today. But perhaps the problem is that we are repeating and repeating debates and votes at the same session and, of course, it is not your or my fault. It will be the fault of the one who gives way to us voting the same thing every 15 days. In any case, we very much appreciate that you now agree with what we have already been voting on since October. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u24	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Like I said, he'll vote for it in points if there's no problem. Therefore, since the discussion has ended, we will vote first, second, and sixth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] What? Those A ver tickets. No, a few. Three. I am now. After the vote, the result was this: the votes I gave you... Is it now? You can't vote right now, but do you have the light standing or burning? Don't you have any light now? Please come back in. No, the light. Clever. I am now. But the light, do you put on the light? The light's still? Yeah. That's because it's wrong. Well, I don't know what the vote was anymore. That's it. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white; 1; abstation, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u25	So the first, second and sixth point has been accepted. After that, we'll vote for three, four, and fifth points. We can vote. [[Pause]] Yeah. Well, put more down. Now all the lights. We'll vote for you. They say he showed up. Okay. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites, 11; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u26	So the next three, four, and fifth points have been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, the members of María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munai, the members of the American laws of the Basque Group, the future of the Expedition of the Commercial Commercial Commerce. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz has the word to suggest and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion as a result of the inquiry that we presented on February 2, regarding the future of Ikusmer, the Observatory of the Commercial Distribution of Euskadi, as it is called in its decree of creation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u29	It was said at the beginning of its creation, back in 2006, in this House, because this initiative was driven by this House... the Government was urged to set up a body capable of providing rapid and up-to-date information on developments in the Basque commercial sector. It's true that it's been a long time. I'm not going to repeat the tour of this observatory, because I already did it in the interpellation, but the reality is that today Ikusmer, the Euskadi Commercial Distribution Observatory, is in limbo. Or not. We don't know. Mr. Counsellor mentioned technical issues that were not in line with the original proposal, but he also acknowledged that there has been no impediment to the technical secretariat of this observatory, with the supervision of the trade management of each government, because there have been several governments that have been in the course of this observatory, saying that the Department's Trade Directorate and technical assistance, which is part of the observatory's competition, have been scheduling and coordinating their work through monthly meetings, with annual plans, and there are the results. Results recognized by the sector, well valued by the sector, recognized by other autonomous communities – it has been a model in other autonomous communities – recognized by research centers, where they have used their studies and their work. He referred to the fact that the creation of a new Department of Tourism and Commerce and Consumption, while it has statistical operation, more in the field of tourism, probably makes it mandatory to create a statistical body for the whole Department, for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. And he said that he had been forced by the Structural Decree to create a specific statistical body for the Department and this had forced him to rethink the Basque Tourist Observatory. Of course, one goes to the Department's Structure Decree and, indeed, in the Department of Services one of the functions of the Director of Services is the direction of the Department's statistical activity and the specific statistical body. But it is also true that one goes to the Directorate of Commerce, and one of the functions of the Director of Commerce is to supervise the Trade Distribution Observatory, and in point two he says that the Trade Directorate is attached to the Commission of Large Trade Establishments, the Consultative Commission on Trade and the Trade Distribution Observatory. This was March 2017. Then, at that time, the Department was very clear that there would be a statistical body and that it was maintaining the Euskadi Trade Trade Centre, Ikusmer. We do not know what has happened since then, so that this distribution may seem timely, so that in the meantime the observatory has disappeared. Rather, as I told you, this observatory has had a complex transit during 2017. Complex, because they joined late, the Technical Secretariat could not start working until July; complex, because first they told them that they were going to be re-attached to the chambers of commerce, then they were going to disappear, then they were going to be taken back into account and that their activity was going to resume, and, in the end, we do not know where they are. Because in the interpellation the advisor told us that, of course, instead of continuing with the inertia that there was, which is what is in the Structures Decree, nothing else that separates or makes a statistical body for the entire Department, but the Observatory is in the Structures Decree. It says that, in the face of the creation of this own statistical body, and instead of continuing with inertia and having returned to what was done, and in this situation, its criterion, and the reactions it receives from the sector in the elaboration of the work of the Strategic Plan and the Master Plan for Trade, what we open up is a reflection on the statistical body of creation and information. And I'm already perplexed here. Because we'll talk about the Department's Strategic Plan and the Trade Manager Plan on its day, but what we were told here on Tuesday is that they haven't been involved in this plan, nor in the trade manager plan... Finally, they have participated, yes, they have been called to a meeting. Okay, to a meeting, to a meeting where there was a trader and 39 people who were not in the trade sector or very side-by-side. It is collected, yes, it is collected, don't worry, Mrs. Corcuera, calm, don't worry, this is the reality. But something tells me that there has been no connection, because it says that the sector in the elaboration of the work of the Strategic Plan, the sector has told you this. The sector was unaware of what the Government was doing, he said. He totally doesn't know it. The Trade Master Plan is not yours, they don't assume it as yours. It's a model plan, it's good for the trade here, it's good for the trade of any autonomous community, it can even go to other countries of the European Union, perfectly. It's a model, laboratory plan, it's not personalized, it doesn't feel like it's the business sector of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and they don't feel it's because they haven't been part of it. Notice that they approved this plan on 26 December, and on Tuesday they did not know it. Hey, they called you on Wednesday, we're gonna introduce you, see what detail. And then he said, in the end, the advisor, he ended up saying, "The functions remain in force, we have not decided – let's say – to eliminate Ikusmer", we do not know whether we are going to eliminate it or not, we are there, "but I think absolutely necessary and, of course, we will do so in the shortest possible time, a thorough reflection on the necessity and usefulness of this body". I don't know if you're referring to the Trade Observatory or if you're referring to the statistical body, because it intersperses and mixes, and then you call the statistical body a whole to then differentiate. Do I keep the structure that's in the decree or what do I keep? What are we staying with? Is this decree worth it or is it not worth it? Is it okay or not? The truth is that in the decree of structures they are perfectly differentiated, the Directorate of Services will be the competent one in the statistical body and the Directorate of Commerce will be awarded this organ, the Observatory of Commercial Distribution, and will be responsible for the management of that observatory. What has happened since April, when this decree of structure is passed, until today? What happened? There's been a current, a bad air, a full moon, what happened? Because, really, it seems that at the time they had clear ideas and today we have this Observatory in limbo and the truth is that we do not know what the cause is, because the cause has not been justified. The cause was to make one's own statistical body? It is already in the structure decree, but the structure decree also maintains the Commercial Distribution Observatory. What happened in this meantime? Let them tell us. We have tabled a motion, which is broad, because we want you to pick up the value of this observatory, the work that has been done during these years, and therefore at the first point tell us that: "The Basque Parliament recognises that the services provided by the Technical Secretariat of the Observatory go far beyond the mere generation or collection of statistical data, managing a vast repository of trade knowledge, collecting information generated by other bodies, public or private, producing and managing own trade knowledge through analysis of the information detected; conducting situation and trend surveys, producing reports and studies of their own and designing sectoral and spatial observation instruments of the Basque Autonomous Community, as well as disseminating and disseminating trade knowledge through programmed activities, and hence the need for such a service." On the second point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to reactivate as soon as possible the service of the Technical Secretariat of the Distribution Observatory, a service with a high appreciation by both the various actors that make up the Basque commercial sector, chambers of commerce, urban trading platforms, trade federations, local development agencies, technical offices of commerce, etc., as well as the user shops themselves of this service". In the third point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to implement within the objective of 'Creation and knowledge management' as set out in the 2017-2020 Master Plan, a knowledge development programme for the distribution sector in which to enclose the Commercial Distribution Observatory, Ikusmer, because it is in the structure of the Department and should be included and, if not, you modify the structure decree – we said – in order to achieve an optimal use of the knowledge accumulated by the people who have been serving the Technical Secretariat of the Observatory in recent years". Finally, on the fourth point, we say: "That the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to bring the Technical Secretariat of the Trade Distribution Observatory before the Trade Committee of the Basque Parliament each year, in order to present its vision of the economic situation of the sector in the Basque Autonomous Community, to present the activities that have been carried out during the year in support of Basque trade, and its action plan for the next 12 months". That is, to have a reality of the activity that this observatory, an observatory that remains in the structure of the department, and I will have to believe that decree, because they have not changed it therefore, where are we? From the Socialist and Basque Nationalists Group they have tabled an amendment, which is birds and flowers. Okay, well, they're goals the observatory can do, but they're missing something. Do they believe the decree? Is the decree valid? Or do they amend the decree? Because they also had to put a point here: the decree is amended. An amendment to add and delete a paragraph has been made from the EH Bildu group. We fully agree, because the point of the amendment to add EH Bildu says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to take measures to avoid the precariousness of the workers of the Technical Secretariat of the Trade Distribution Observatory, and to seek the stability of the working group, so that their rights as workers are respected and that their knowledge is used to the best of their ability". It is true that its wording is much better than what I have somehow wanted to convey in the motion, but it has done much better, much clearer, and therefore I like the text and of course we will vote in favour of this addendum amendment. And in the deletion amendment we can also delete that paragraph, because it actually has or may have some complexity. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to maintain this tool, which, if modifications are to be made within the Trade Distribution Observatory tool, can be made, which can be adapted. I can understand that I have to have another system of work, but it seems to us a tool that has been valid, and there are inertias that can be valid today, and there are inertias that are not. And inertia is not to destroy what is there, inertia will be to modify, improve it, be more useful to the sector, and that is where we are. Of course, in the answer of the councillor one thing can be said and the opposite, but I am left with the decree of structure, which is what we have today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The turn of the teams who have issued the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u31	Yes, good morning again. We are talking about what should be the mechanisms for the collection and processing of information in the field of the trade sector. And I'm gonna start by telling an anecdote. A few months ago at a conference on industry 4.0 a company, a startup, presented itself as a company specializing in the monetaryization of the last stretch of the data value chain. Look at the most complex name. I don't remember the name of the company, it happens to me like the one that asked for acetylsalicylic acid because I forgot the name of aspirin. I remember the length and not the short, because I think this definition gives us many clues about the type of society and the type of economy we are living in. An economy in which the data count, the information counts, the data have value chain, and it seems that, as in the pig, the data takes advantage of everything. He said a long time ago the popular wisdom that information is power, and we have come to a point where we define our own society as the information society. If information has always been relevant, it becomes even more important at a time when change is constant, change is not an option or something that happens periodically, but change is the new paradigm. And, therefore, it is important to have the compass well tuned to detect the trends of that change and know how to adapt, and to do so, to equip or be endowed with optical knowledge, both retrospectively and prospectively: to know what has happened, what is happening and what can happen and is more likely to happen. This is generally the case with society and economy, and especially with good information in the sector of commerce, because the trade is now at a crossroads. Even if the changes are on all tables, these changes in the trade sector are disruptible and the entire sector is being compromised. 16 percent of commercial settlements have disappeared since 2009 to 2016, especially in the great capital capitals. The amount of autonomous people working in the sector decreased at 10%, age has increased to average people who handle shops, and now it's 48,8 years old: the shopkeepers are more and more master. Besides, new phenomena occur, e.g. electronic commerce, or the uncontrolled explosion of the trading stations which some parties are entering. A very important phenomenon, a time of change in trade. So also in commerce it is essential, I should say, that it is vital, to have exact, accurate, and good knowledge of what has happened, what is going on and what is to happen. If we talk about what tools we will rely on to obtain the processing, management and optimal use of vital information for the future of the trade sector, we are faced with a sort of dilemma. If it was a boxing match, we could present it as follows, we have two options: To my left, Ikusmer, a dual instrument consisting of an information-gathering apparatus and a comprehensive data-processing and analysis body to make it useful for the trade sector. He has 10 years of experience and has so far achieved optimal results, valued as much by people close to the trade sector as by other agents in our country and outside our country. And to my right we have the government's offer, which today is easy to summarize. The Government's offer is nothing. On the one hand, Ikusmer and, on the other hand, nothing, because the Government has said that it has to reflect. A part of Ikusmer, the forum, the observatory, was in limbo, had been unconvoked for years. On the other hand, the Technical Secretariat continued to support and do its work. The Government said it had to reflect and, therefore, said that there was a need to stop. As the Government reflects, the Government seeks to stop the world, not to happen things, not to need information, not to operate Ikusmer or its Technical Secretariat. But what happens is exactly the opposite. It is the Government that stands by, and the Government is standing by to reflect without doing anything. Meanwhile, the world continues and the needs of the trade sector are becoming increasingly critical and acute. This proposal from the Government to replace Ikusmer for nothing as long as they think about it is a kind of deadly leap. But I'm no longer jumping dead without a net, but I'm jumping dead without another trapeze to cling to. Therefore, it is a guarantee of an insured trumpet. It is an authentic cobbler to quarantine or, rather, to dismantle what exists so as not to replace it with anything until something new comes to mind. We have clearly, and we have already stated that the existence of changes in time of life, and that the cancelling of inertia in times of change, is a laudable thing. If the government wants to defeat the armies, we'll be protected by those good intentions. Changes, a constant examination, a improvement, all of which is highly plausible. But what's unacceptable is what's happening, and it seems that what's going on doesn't do anything. We are ready to be brought here by the government to improve the conduct of the viewor, or to place an organ, instrument, institution, or whatever it may be. We are prepared to appreciate without any prejudice whether this proposition really improves what exists or not. Baina gaur eguri hori ez da existitzen. Existitzen closes because the government is thinking. And when we talk about closure, the part of the technical office, we're talking about sending the workers home and stopping their work and production. We defend the visual standard, and, as we say, we open the door to rate something better, but in principle we believe that the pattern is adequate because information is produced and the information is subsequently studied on another organ, and consequently the criteria are marked for the improvement of the trade sector, or at least at least for the formulary of the Vimera. Madame Lopez de Océriz quoted the Decreta of the Description, and asked whether they will change it, but it is not only that they have to change that decree, but that the decrees which created the inspector of force have been changed, and which, it seems, ought not to be fulfilled or the government does not intend to fulfil. We believe that this double system is effective, and besides, it gives this observatory very interesting features. The credibility of the information obtained is great because the sectors are responsible for this information. It's more useful, because this is how they can look for information and data specific to the sector. The sector is powerful because they share the management of the organ and the observatory, and moreover it guarantees the independence of the observatory, because we often believe that some services can be given without externizing the structure of the Administration, but in this case the view of the view must also furnish the inclosures of the several policies which the government does, and consequently prefer the organ which is outside the structure of the Government, which has the public protection, but which has the character of mixed, and which has the internal influence of public. Ikusmer is not a chiringuito, it's not a place where people are fingered to collect large wages, the typical department for friends, with many chiefs and few Indians, and a dubious functionality. It's exactly the opposite: it's small, it's efficient and it's independent and it's also cheap. The Basque Government in the previous legislature publicly welcomed the value of Ikusmer's work, saying that more was being done with less. Undoubtedly, and that is clear to us, Ikusmer, like everything else in this life, is perfectable, but it is not indispensable until an alternative is presented that improves it, and that alternative, today, does not exist. There is no such thing, and we were able to see it in the Council's response to the People's Party's inquiry, and we can see it again in the amendment tabled to us by the groups supporting the Government, and look at it when the Council began its inquiry saying that in 30 seconds he was going to clarify the issue, because he raised a certain expectation in our group, but obviously not in 30 seconds or in a quarter of an hour he was able to really say what he wants to do with Ikusmer, because he probably doesn't know it. What you do know is that you want to load the Technical Secretariat with a pen and send its workers, who have kept them in absolutely indecent conditions from a work and personal point of view. And, through hard work and great dedication, they have maintained during these years, despite institutional abandonment, an instrument that has provided a valuable service to the trade sector and this community. Por drop, if you have anything better to bring in and argue, we'll see if we agree or not. It may be disputed, but what you now plan, whether in the reply of the chief physician, or in the correction of the chief physician, is nothing, and we think of it as there is motion, and we must protect ourselves from the increase of Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, and we shall do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Look, said the Councillor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption on January 25, 2017, when he appeared in committee explaining the strategic lines of his Department, that the fourth fundamental axis raised in the matter of trade, although it is not bad for tourism either, is that of data and information. "And one of the elements that, of course, has the potential for improvement – and I am literally reading it – is the situation of the data we have to analyse the situation of trade in this case, but also of tourism and its evolution. "No good information, no data... it is difficult to make decisions and, therefore, this is an important space to consider, that of data and information. "The world, moreover, is now at the door of a data revolution and we need to launch initiatives to accelerate digitization in terms of data production from trade. "We need to reconsider the production and collection of data on the sector, which we usually use to effectively help institutions and the sector make decisions. "At present – I am still reading – we find discontinuities, data that are followed for a period and then they are interrupted and we find a confusing combination of data produced with different methodologies or from different sources, and we also find a poor adaptation of the indicators to the analysis of the current situation of trade. "If we say that trade has to be innovated because we are at another time, etc., sometimes with data what happens is a certain dictatorship of an old model of analysis of reality. "This area of data is cross-cutting within the Department and it is necessary to develop effective ways of collecting, updating data sources, systematizing what is, critical analysis of what is, to see if some things have ceased to make sense and we can consider other ways of measuring or using other sources. "And it is also important in this data revolution to look for ways to merge different data sources to go to that information and data complex that is actually the future. "This is an important axis, that of the data, a priority axis in the Department, in the design of policies or in the direction and direction of the effort to improve the situation of the sector that, having knowledge, will be able to make the best decisions." This was said on January 25, 2017, as a strategic line of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. And now we're going with Ikusmer, the Euskadi Trade Distribution Observatory. Because the proposal of the People's Party in its motion comes to say, in the four paragraphs of its motion, to recognize the work of the Technical Secretariat of Ikusmer, to react to that Technical Secretariat which completed its activity, Mr. Casanova, on 31 December 2017 and there is nothing to dismantle. The Technical Secretariat completed its duties, terminated its contract on 31 December 2017. And it is said in the motion of the People's Party: "Let a contract be made to the same person who has been carrying it so far and who will also appear in Parliament." And the Basque Socialists say no to this proposal. And I'm going to explain myself. We consider that there are anomalous situations in relation to Ikusmer today, because Ikusmer is created by decree in 2007 as an observatory of commercial distribution and the start problem is generated because it is created by the department thinking of having its own organ, which is what the 2007 decree says that it has its own organ, with its own human and material resources. And this is pointed out in the current provision. It was noted in 2007, but also in the amendment of the 2012 decree. The first final arrangement does not disappear. So, as I say, we continue to have an observatory that does not have its own human resources, because it is taken out for concession. Because in 2007, because of the circumstances then faced by the Government, such human resources costs could not be met, and it was therefore appropriate for chambers of commerce. And those chambers of commerce propose a certain person in 2007. But the Office of Economic Control comes to say in 2010 "no, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you cannot establish a person at the Ikusmer Observatory by an agreement with the chambers." What's going on? That you have to take him out for a public contest. And from there appear the tenders in the year 2011. From then on public tenders are made. The public contest's out. Here, the adalides of the non-outsourcing of public services now turn out to be in agreement that it should be drawn up for procurement and tendering, that is, indirect management. That was already the case by decree, but under the circumstances of the Government, which I am not going to criticize, it could not be carried out with its own human resources. That was in 2007. Today is the year 2018. And, as I say, with one of the strategic axes on the part of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. And, as I was telling you, the contract ended on December 31, 2017. It has not been extended. It hasn't been renewed. The Technical Secretariat is not working today. Okay? It doesn't work. He doesn't have a contract. And, this situation brings us to this day, that we are using our own resources, because the Department itself has commissioned a table of command for the subject of trade to a statistician who carries the affairs of tourism. Therefore, that no one is alarmed, there are data, the information is being processed, monthly reports are being made and will be made, that is, that trade and the sector and, in addition, the Department itself will have and will have information in this interim until the specific statistical body is created. So that there are no misinterpretations. I mean, there's information, there's information, there's information. But the Technical Secretariat does not work because it has no contract and therefore cannot work. That's it. What the counselor said, and who here is trying to manipulate in some way, is that, in the end, the counselor says that for not being carried away by inertia. Man, counselors, counselors, everyone we've been in public administration, what we least want is trouble, listen. Mrs López de Ocariz, what we least want is management trouble. But logically, when one has a responsibility and assumes a responsibility, and in his department's strategy is the issue of data, he is announcing in January 2017 what he intends to do. I mean, this is gonna take a walk. What happens, you asked me, in the period that goes on like this, between reflections, not reflections. It happens that, in 2017, since the creation of the Department's Structures Decree, until the Technical Secretariat begins to work with the hiring that was provisionally awarded in December of the year 16, there are six months of inactivity of the Technical Secretariat. It doesn't work. Do you know why? Because they were involved in a series of appeals in the bidding. Therefore, there is no Technical Secretariat, no extension of the Technical Secretariat, there are six months of inaction of the Technical Secretariat until June 2017, that is, after the Decree of Structures of the Basque Government, until December 31, 2017. What has happened in this interim of inaction, of resources between the bidding companies? That there hasn't been a complaint. Look, it's not formal, not informal. Not officially, not unofficially. Neither on the part of the sector, nor on the part of any parliamentarian in this House, nor on the part of anyone, anyone. No one has thought about why there were no reports from January until July 2017. No one. So let's put things on their fair terms and don't pretend to be alarmed. You said, let's recognize Ikusmer's work. Look, they've charged for the task they've been awarded, it's that they've charged. It's just that I don't understand what you want to be put on, what kind of medal you want to be put on because someone fulfills the task for which you have been hired, no more or less. Secondly, you said, of course, that there is no alternative here. Of course, there are alternatives, just that you didn't want to hear them, or at least you didn't hear them, and when you read them, you didn't want to take them, because there was an alternative. The Councillor has already said that, not only are we reflecting, but we have tabled an amendment to create a specific statistical body. Of course we have presented it, because the ultimate goal is to achieve an observatory as God commands, but not one that has not progressed, that has not progressed sufficiently. You said, the amendment is birds and flowers. But like birds and flowers. No, you were wrong about the amendment, because you have an approach. Then the means will be put in, because you know perfectly well, because if you read it, the Councillor's inquiry, you will see how the Councillor said, lacks a report to the specific statistical body, lacks a report, that of the Basque Statistical Agency. Otherwise, and as soon as that report is available, it is launched. But you don't, you say that these are birds and flowers, that we have been invented by the Basque Nationalist group and us. And thirdly, you can't destroy a tool, but it's not about destroying a tool, it's about a contract's over, and if there's a new approach on the part of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers, they have a perfect right to say how they want to organize themselves internally and how they think it's better, how they think it's better to have an observatory for trade today and the future, and not yesterday, the year 2007. That is what has been intended with this amendment, and what I am surprised about by Bildu is that he enters the rag with an amendment, enters the motion of the People's Party saying that he joins, adds a proposal, when in that proposal you say: we are for the outsourcing of service, for the hiring of service. In addition to compliance with labour regulations that involve all public procurement, in which there are supposed to be wage conditions, because contracting comes at a price, do you want to tell me how we establish a job stability in a contract that can be for two years or for five years?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u34	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u35	Or do you know contracts for 50? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u37	Yes, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. I don't know what's going on here today. I don't know if it's the state of trade, whether it's the state of the sector or of the big date right now. But I'll try to make a little mark, because I think it's important to hear from what we heard. Basque statistics system, I think we should put that on the table. The Esquimic Autonomia Eremia is in full possession of the statistics for his needs in production. And for this purpose, the statistics of Euscal Autonomia Eremia to form and organize, in April 1986, a law was admitted to this Basque parliament. This is the first statistical law which was admitted to the State of Spain. It was by means of this that Eustat, the autonomous organization of the Administration, was created. This law sets three main aspects of the statistical activity. On the one hand, he sets up the general scope for plans that concern the operations of the statistics, and for executions. On the other hand, it fixes the order required to specify, design, modify, and extend these operations. And finally, he regulates the duties and statistics to give information as they ought to be, for the information-givers give individual data under the protection of this secret. The statistics you have to perform every moment, they're based on statistics, and it's about to be legally accepted by the Eukko MU. These plan sets how many statistical operations the euscal statistics organization will perform in a four-year period, including what organizations these operations will perform. Statistical plans are based on the annual statistics that RedMork accepts every year. In these rules, as well as in each case, the statistical function is defined, such as its end, whether it is performed, which are the informers, which organization will produce, when the results will be published, and so on, how much each period will cost and so on. Aurrera joango naiz. Hori Statistika Legaren inguruan dagokionez. Baina gero dekretu bat daukagu: Decree 180/1993 of 22 June, regulating the statistical and specific bodies of government departments. The specific statistical bodies of government departments have been discussed here as if they were an occurrence of someone at a given time. But no, they are regulated by a decree that develops this first law – of 86, which I was talking about – by means of a decree in 93. This decree, which regulates the specific statistical bodies of government departments, says how they have to act, says how they are structured organically, says how information is provided in these statistical bodies, talks about how statistical secrecy is regulated, and also says in the First Additional Provision what happens in the absence of these specific statistical bodies in the departments. Well, I read: "For government departments to be able to carry out statistics and actions included as their own in the Basque Statistical Plan or in the annual statistical programmes, it will be essential that they have a specific statistical body". Therefore, we are faced with a need to have a specific statistical body in one department, which is also newly created in this legislature, bringing together areas of other departments. Therefore, I come to that point to which Mrs López de Ocariz had also arrived, which is the decree establishing the organizational and functional structure of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. Well, in this Decree, which is of 11 April 2017, the collegiate bodies are in fact attached: the Commission for Large Commercial Establishments and the Advisory Committee on Trade. It is interesting, because we can make a parallel between this Consultative Committee on Trade and the plenary of the Trade Distribution Observatory and wonder if there is any kind of parallelism or even duplicity. It is something that I believe must also be reflected on, the Trade Distribution Observatory formed by the plenary, is quite coincidental with the Consultative Committee on Trade, and the Technical Secretariat, which are not specific individuals, is an organ of that trade distribution observatory. And also, the Euskadi Tourist Board. These are the organs, but it is that all of them are created by decree, so they have to be in the Structure Decree, because if they are created by decree they have to be there. From there the department begins to work and can be reorganized and propose modifications to the decrees, which I suppose we will see. But in addition, Mrs López de Ocariz has also said that the Directorate of Commerce is the one who is the guardian of the Trade Distribution Observatory. But there is also a Second Transitional Provision in this Department's Structure Decree, which states that in transition the functions of a specific statistical body are assumed until the decree establishing the specific statistical body of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption is approved. Reference is made to the previous one, which came from the previous departments in this case, which was created on the occasion of the Department of Industry, Tourism, Commerce in 2006. In other words, the transitional nature of this area is assumed, as long as it is created. Indeed, in the interpellation, Mr. Counsellor told us that they are working on that statistical body that is being processed. It must be approved by decree, because this is required by the previous decree and the law of statistics, because here we have a normative architecture in order to ensure that data, information and statistics are consistent and reliable and meet all the necessary statistical standards. They are drafting that decree establishing the statistical body, and it is missing the report of the Bureau of Statistics, I think it is up to the Eustat. Well, all this normative architecture that I comment on and think it is appropriate to bring here, and that I also think it is very well armed and that allows us to face the times that come in a coherent way, with criteria and with the necessary modifications that I do not exclude, are within the so-called code of good practice of European statistics. All of this is armed in a tangle that I think it is important to make clear. It is true, too, as Mrs Corcuera has rightly explained, that, at one point, the Office of Economic Control did not recommend the agreement with chambers of commerce, and that is why it is drawn up by competition. The Technical Secretariat is not drawn by competitive examination, the work to be done by the Technical Secretariat over time is taken out. But, indeed, if we are setting up a specific statistical body of the department, we should take into account how the department will function once that specific statistical body is established, which seems to be coming soon. We have therefore tabled an amendment in which we come to say that we urge the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs to develop this specific statistical body for the necessary centralization and coordination of statistical operations, to develop a diagnosis and analysis of sources of information and to establish a comprehensive model of data production. But all of this is part of this whole institutional policy mix that we already have, and that I think is valid, and that is why we need to put value on it, and what we need to do is to complete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u38	Thank you, Miss Oregi. Together, the Podemos team, the team that introduced any correction, Mrs. García, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President, good morning to all the women Members of Parliament. The subject before us today is the situation and future of Ikusmer, the Euskadi Trade Distribution Observatory, which aims to assess and analyse the Community's trade dynamics. We do so through a motion tabled by the People's Group. As Mrs López de Ocariz and the other previous parliamentarians have already explained, Ikusmer was set up in 2007 as an initiative of the Basque Government's Directorate of Commerce, with several lines of work. On the one hand, collect and disseminate information that is of real interest to the various actors in the sector, which would include the public administration itself, the Basque Government, municipalities, local development agencies, technical trade offices and trade associations. On the other hand, its activity focuses on the monitoring and monitoring of the situation of the sector, collecting data, news and studies of its own elaboration or carried out by external companies, organizing days and events of interest, and using as the main communication tool the website where all this information is collected and all this knowledge is disseminated so essential to recognize the state of health of the trade in Euskadi. This tracking of the trading system makes it easier to take a more accurate picture of what trade is like in Euskadi, and, more importantly, to know what Basque consumers are like. Ikusmer was born as a result of the reflection and work carried out during the process of creating the Business Competitiveness and Social Innovation Plan of the Basque Government for the years 2006-2009. Within this Competitiveness Plan, there are three areas for work: cooperation, business excellence and knowledge management. The Trade Observatory is based precisely on this latter objective. According to Decree 56/2007 of 27 March, Ikusmer's main objective is to analyse the evolution of the sector so that we can take action to achieve these objectives. Ikusmer's mission is to monitor the trading system in the Basque Autonomous Community and to capture existing trends at state and European level through the production, compilation and evaluation of statistical information aimed at improving the competitiveness of the business fabric, improving the effectiveness of institutional policies, and consumer satisfaction. The vision is to be established as an international reference in the compilation of information on the commercial distribution sector in all its fields; all this with a public service vocation marked by the rigour, transparency and professionalism of technicians close to commercial reality and related experts in this field. Within Ikusmer's activity, we can differentiate between structural work and short-term work. The first is based on the trade barometer and the demand barometer, as well as on the working groups that are regularly being held. Also, the work of a short-term nature is one that arises from the immediate need, as may be the research on recurring topics at the time. Similarly, Ikusmer is the new one responsible for the six-monthly preparation of the Basque Trade Report. One of these studies is the barometer of trade that analyses the four-monthly reality from the point of view of traders, where surveys are carried out on some 1,500 owners of commercial establishments, 1,200 of which belong to the retail trade and about 300 to the wholesale trade. They are given a series of interviews and questionnaires with different structural variables, such as the age of the sector, the level of training of traders, the area of sales, the legal norm, etc., but they also analyse sales, the influx of customers and the various sales campaigns. The other side of the coin is the barometer of demand, that is, to analyze in a semi-annual way the evolution of the behavior of the Basque consumer through the confidence index of the Basque consumer ICO, to gather the opinions of the consumers asking and consulting through a series of interviews and questionnaires to about 1,600 consumers who reside in Basque, thus allowing to know the changes and trends in the habits of consumption of Basque citizens. The usefulness of the conclusions arising from the conduct of both studies has been positively assessed and their usefulness has been recognized by the majority of operators in the Basque commercial sector over the past ten years. A couple of days ago, without going any further, the different associations of Euskadi merchants who attended the Committee on Tourism, Commerce and Consumption expressed their satisfaction with the Observatory as a useful tool for detecting the different weaknesses and strengths that the sector has. In 2012, the Basque Government amended the decree regulating the Basque Trade Observatory in order to give it a more agile operation. The changes were manifested in its internal structure, which became two organs, the Plenary and the Technical Secretariat, and in the composition of the Plenary, which reduced the number of vowels from 30 to 24, without reducing the representativeness of the sectors involved. In addition, a work plan was drawn up, in which not only were the data and actions of the sector reviewed in the past, but, as a major novelty, were to be analysed in which direction trade was moving towards the future. Among other issues, the aim was to analyse the perception of citizens of campaigns to promote and support trade, as well as to prepare a specific report on the sector's own financing needs, as well as its assessment of public aid. Until 2010, Ikusmer was managed through a private agreement, with a contribution of 390,000 euros from the Basque Government. That year the model changed when a public competition was called. With these changes, Ikusmer completed a transformation process in 2012, which allowed this body to become a reference source of information for the commercial sector of Euskadi, according to the Basque Government itself. The Department of Industry, Innovation, Trade and Tourism of the Basque Executive decided on this instrument. However, now they seem to have suddenly changed their mind. In 2014, with the renewal of the web, Ikusmer is consolidated as a reference for the consultation of information on the commercial distribution sector in all areas. It seems to us that the arguments in favour of maintaining Ikusmer as an effective and efficient body are many, as we have already reported, so that the Directorate of Commerce, the Department of Tourism, Consumer and Trade and the advisor himself, Mr.Retortillo, have decided not to include it as a working tool in the Trade Master Plan 2017-2020. For Elkarrekin We can direct participation and representation of all the collective actors and associations in the sector is fundamental to consider the Basque Commercial Distribution Observatory as an indispensable working tool for the future and evolution of Basque trade, a tool that works and whose usefulness is contrasted by the Basque commercial system community, is valued and is a reference in other communities and internationally. In the plenary of Ikusmer are represented bodies such as the Basque Government itself, the Association of Basque Municipalities, business associations of commerce, the Association of Large Commercial Distribution Enterprises, the Association of Supermarkets of Euskadi, the Territorial Trade Federations of Euskadi or the Confederation of Associations of Traders, Hostelers and Service Companies of Euskadi. In turn, there are also representatives of the Basque city trading platforms, consumer associations in the Basque Country, trade unions, the Basque Institute of Statistics, chambers of commerce, the Basque Competition Court, the Basque Competitiveness Institute, the Basque Foundation for the Promotion of Quality, the Basque Innovation Agency and Basque universities. For all this, we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the People's Group and by EH Bildu, because we want the work of the Technical Secretariat of the Observatory to be recognised, which goes beyond the collection and processing of statistical data, to restore Ikusmer's activity and to include this tool in the Trade Master Plan 2017-2020, respecting the stability of the working group already established and, of course, not forgetting the rights and conditions of women workers, as well as we also see the need for the annual appearance of the Technical Secretariat in the Committee on Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs to present both the work carried out and the action plan in the following months. In this way, we do not share the need to create another specific statistical body, as proposed in the amendment by the groups that make up the Government. We do not understand why there is already a reference tool that has the consensus of the different actors in the sector, such as Ikusmer, and whose performance has been positive and satisfactory, now you want to rethink its continuity, get rid of it, create a new body, because I think you do not know it either, and we are concerned about what reasons you hide behind this decision, which suffers from lack of transparency and waste of resources, which precisely the Department of Commerce does not have. The Basque trading system wants to continue to be able to count on Ikusmer and you decide against everyone, from the whole sector, to create a new body that makes specific statistics. What is the real purpose of this movement? What interests do you have in mind? This whole thing smells pretty bad to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Well, when I get to this point, I have to cut it off and then we'll replicate it from 12:30 a.m. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and thirty-five. The meeting resumed at twelve-thirty-two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u41	We'll go back to the whole meeting. Now, we're going to take the answers, representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. l'Espez de Ocarariz, your word is yours. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Corcuera, I was saying, "important axis, the data", indeed, very important, that is why we are here, that is why we are here, and because of the desire for power already expressed by some and which it turns on the street. Because you know, Mrs. Corcuera, when you rule and want to do things you have to go forward and put them forward, not through the back door. Don't do anything, as I was saying, that's why we're here, because we think the data is very important. He spoke of the Technical Secretariat, yes, a lot of respect for people and a lot of thanks to people who have worked in complicated years. Different companies that have won the contest and hired them, therefore, we believe that they are people who treasure a high knowledge and that also has value and we want to recognize it despite you. I expected nothing less from you, Mrs Corcuera, a socialist spokesman: who has been paid for you, you who are born with the patina of workers' rights, and is pleased that you have been paid for, but what happens? Did you have any doubts? Was there also any doubt to pay them? That they have not been thanked for the work they have done. You haven't even been thanked, you've been sent home by the back door, Mrs. Corcuera. And, look, they're mixing an interesting statistical body with a knowledge management body, but because they're interested, because they're interested in not clarifying, they're interested in confusion, for what I've told you before, because they're doing things through the back door. Because we say this at the first point of our motion, that one thing is the generation or collection of statistical data, and another is the management of trade knowledge, collecting information generated by other bodies, public or private, producing and managing own trade knowledge through analysis, conducting trend situation surveys, preparing reports and own studies designing sectoral and spatial observation instruments of the Autonomous Community, as well as disseminating and disseminating trade knowledge through programmed activities. And hence the need to have the management body, which you are talking about in your plan: one thing is the statistical body and the other the management body. And, in fact, we ask the councillor what Ikusmer's future was and what Mr Casanova has already recalled, "but in thirty seconds I answer them", listen, waiting we are, not one thing, nor the other. I am not saying that it is not valid, that the functions are still in force, but I do not know whether – let's say – we are going to delete Ikusmer or not. No, you've already said it, it's already suppressed, it doesn't exist... So please agree, ladies and gentlemen. The trade sector needs certainties and at the moment the sector is very concerned, we were able to see it and see it on Tuesday, I think it can be said louder but more clearly not, and I refer to what we were told, and we were left with the documentation. Local trade, traditional trade, needs help, does not have the economic strength or organizational structure of large multinationals, nor can it compete in prices, nor does it have the means or the knowledge to face the future. And, they said, but we assure them that we are in it, all that is in our hands do not hesitate that we will try to improve it, after all, we play our future and our jobs, but we also need their protection to make the retail trade a competitive and enriching activity that provides added value to our streets, our municipalities and our cities. But they also said that the knowledge they had of the Trade Master Plan generated a lot of doubts. Firstly, because it raises a situation for them, a model of associations which has nothing to do with the reality of this Autonomous Community. That's why I used to tell him that this is a plan-table, that I don't know what it's for, I don't know where it's for, but it's not for here. And I'm so sorry, but the model isn't good and they tell us. And they have not known much about what is contained in the Trade Plan. Finally, I would like to recall – because this is going to follow – what the Directorate for Trade's powers are: to promote the improvement and modernisation of trade distribution structures and processes. Promote them, not implant them. Promoting the implementation of quality processes and trade renewal, as well as promoting targeted programmes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u43	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u44	... to the realization and reduction of costs. Encourage implantation. And ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm hearing bells that this isn't going this way, it's going the other way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u46	Well, yes, it's true, Mrs. Corcuera, I think you've had some rather unfortunate expression. And I think it's so obvious how unfortunate some of your expressions are that I'm not going to emphasize them, because I think you yourself will realize that you may have exceeded yourself. In that sense, to say that they have collected and that for that reason they do not deserve any recognition, man, the work always deserves a recognition. Well done work, more recognition. And the work well done under the indecent conditions to which it has been subjected to the staff of the Technical Secretariat, as it requires much more recognition. He also said that you have not loaded anything, you have simply finished the contract and you have not renewed it. Man, a practice that has been carried out over the last few years, to which suddenly they put an end without giving any kind of explanation, obviously, is to carry something. You have uploaded this, this website, all the services that were provided and all the services related to the realization of this website and the provision and management of this data carried out by the Technical Secretariat of Ikusmer, which we do not know today who will perform; whether it will be the statistician of the Department or who will gaitas be the one doing these functions. Because in the interpellation the adviser repeatedly suggested that the Technical Secretariat was being confused with the Observatory, and here we are not talking about the observatory and that team of experts from the world of trade and other areas that should then be responsible for managing the data and information produced by the Technical Secretariat to become useful tools for the world of trade. And that's not arranged with a statistical department or a statistic inside the department. The working conditions, and I return to the working conditions of the staff, no longer in reference to the comments you have made, but because I believe that not only do you owe them recognition, but you owe them an apology. They are owed an apology for having subjected them for so many years to a succession of precarious contracts. It's true that these people and workers can't be fixed, they can't become officials, but public administration has means to ease this instability and to do things differently. And to commit competition in another more stable manner. And, further, the end of these professional careers is perhaps to-day that it may be final; It has been absolutely unacceptable that the department has not treated these people sincerely, has not informed them rigorously of their future, has not informed them of their plans, has given them contradictory messages, if not false, when they have not been hidden from these people when they were asking about their future. I believe that, in addition to recognition, they deserve an apology. And we say it again. There must always be an opportunity to improve, if you bring us a full planning to tell us how you want to improve, we are ready, we are open, and maybe your planning will be more useful than it is now. We don't have any prejudices. We don't have any prejudices. What we see is that everything changes for nothing, and we are not ready to admit it. The question of what the government wants to do can be made as long as the Secretary Technic works. Same thing. And for the last year, when at least this transition is made, until we receive a new proposition, keep the work of these people and the future. And then discussions. And if you have the ability to implement potential improvements, then we'll talk about it. But now it was: first cut, first shut up, first end up with the project, then put on the "Closed for reflection." Cerrado por reflexion. And that's not the way to do things. You say that the first lesson anyone has ever been in public administration is not to be entered into the clinics, no meterse en líos. Well, here it is true that we feel something that makes us think badly. otherwise we do not understand how things can be done so ill, and how a problem should not be made by principles. I'm saying over and over again, if this works and you show us a serious planning in a few months, I don't think anyone's going to be in trouble. Baina zuek uste dut jarri duzuela the cart in front of the oxen, the dismissals in front of the reflection, dismantle the existing in front of presenting what is proposed as improvement, and in short, make a dip that nobody at this height understands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u48	Thank you, President. Let's see, I have intended to take this debate on a fair footing. From what you can see, it must have been misinterpreted because it matters. First of all, nothing is breaking down. There's an alternative. There's a job option that's the one running the department. Ikusmer was seven months out of business, the Technical Secretariat, on the issue of litigation in relation to the award, and I can assure you that neither the sector complained, nor the sector received any doubt, concern, suggestion, call it as they please, no comments or complaints. Neither of this Parliament, nor of parliamentarians, nor of anyone in the field of politics. The 2018 Budgets were passed on for an appearance. Nobody said anything, Mr. Casanova. No one complained about the removal of the 2018 Budget Observatory. So let us not try to be more papists than the pope. Let us not try to claim for the sector something that even the sector itself has not claimed. Mrs López de Ocariz, read the speeches of two days ago, from the whole trade sector. But who supported Ikusmer? Who? When? How many did Ikusmer support? No, what they said was that it was right that there should be studies, that studies should be carried out. And that is why I assure you that studies and reports are still being done, that they are going to continue to be done and that, in addition, there is an item for studies for commercial distribution in the Budget. Therefore, nothing is paralyzed. There will continue to be studies. What's not going to work is Ikusmer's Technical Secretariat. Understood? So let's not mess things up. I would also like to say that – let's see – I have read you the fundamental axes and the fundamental axis of the data issue, which the department already outlined on 25 January 2017. We have been worried since then, but now there is a proposal. You don't want to take it. Why? Because your motion is much better. Look, we're going to recognize an extraordinary, wonderful job that the sector doesn't say, but we're going to recognize it. No, no, What I've told you is that the job for which those people and those companies bid, that job is paid, as it was in the contract. And things have to be paid for. I don't know what kind of work... What does your motion propose? Give a finger to the contract. What does Bildu's addition propose, who have been smarter? They have taken from you the final part of the third point, that of fingering. That's what happened. That's what happened. And with regard to working conditions, these indecent conditions have been experienced by the people who have worked for the Technical Secretariat. And why didn't you guys ever do anything to keep the public service from carrying out those kind of contracts? But how come you complain today when you have an organism, which first suits and then has been hiring through the Administration for more than five years? And there's never been a complaint. So, we don't create problems, they don't generate problems where there's been no problem. Do not become, Mrs López de Ocariz, a lobby for a phone call and let's all put ourselves here stupendous of death saying what barbarities we are doing with the Trade Distribution Observatory. No, I don't admit it and I don't share it. And you will have the support of the votes today, but you are not right about the debate or the speech, and you know it. And you from Bildu, who are constantly saying that the public administration has to have its own human resources, that it doesn't get out and that it doesn't manage things indirectly, today you just give a lesson to all your colleagues from some union that also gets really great from death with these things of public procurement and it turns out that you come now to tell us that yes, that it is managed indirectly. And they've also been ready there, and they've taken the finger off, which the PP had already put on. So, finally, I think we can really subject the debate to what matters, and it is that the commercial sector has the data, has information and has enough studies to face the challenges of a day and a morning, in the medium and long term, which is very complicated for them. And that's the work of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption. And that's why the counselor was worried since January 25, 2017, when he explained the Department's strategic lines and you have it black on white. Another thing is that they don't want to read, because they know how to read, then how they interpret it is another matter. So, I'm telling you that on the Department's agenda is trade as a first concern and before we've already been the Department with the trade sector. Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz, of course you have. And of course you know him firsthand, and you don't misunderstand and say that they didn't participate in the master plan each and every member who was the other day Euskomer, Euskaldendak and the three zone managers said they had participated in the master plan. Listen to him, check the video, read it and see how everyone has been at the meetings of the consultant who made the Plan Director. They will not have the conclusions in their hand, but participated in that Master Plan, participated, Mrs López de Ocariz. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u50	Yes, good morning, again. I'm not going to repeat everything we've been saying before and what is the fit all of this has, which I think is obvious. I'm gonna start a little bit because I don't know if it's the beginning or the end. The First Final Provision of the creation of Ikusmer, also quoted the other day in the inquiry by the advisor, said: "The operation of the Observatory will be attended to with material means and human resources available in the Department". Well, that's what is contained in the decree of creation and then for reasons that I think have already been exposed here between the other day and today, because those tasks are taken out in competition, they are taken out in competition and they are taking care of the work in support of that Technical Secretariat, because I think we are confusing what they are put in, what they are jobs and what they are people. I think that these are different things and that it is not good to mix in any case, and in this case neither. Well, for those reasons that have been explained, these tasks are outsourced over a number of years, but there comes a time when, with the creation of this specific Department, which in turn requires the generation or creation of the specific statistical body, because they are thus bound by the different laws and regulations that I have previously explained, the Department decides to assume that by its own means, as the decree had ordered from the beginning, and also to get to work with the specific statistical body. I therefore reiterate once again that I believe that the path is the one set out in our amendment and that is why we will support it, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. So together, Podemos, Mrs. García won't say a word. [[Silent]] Now that the argument is over, we will vote first, and then we will put the amendment to the Book of EH. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u52	So, it's accepted to remove the correction. Next, we vote for the rights to add EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u53	So the add correction has been accepted. And next, we vote for the original text of Carmen Lopez de Ocarname. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u54	So the original text has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: "Grow up the proposition as a parlamentary group, about the steps that must be made to render a good member of the Osacinology. "Another proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together about turning Donostian Onkological into a public hospital." In turn, Mrs. Blanco, representative of the EH Collect team, has the initiative to present and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The word cancer of fortune often reveals itself around us, and most of us, who are outside this room today, have lived our contact in one or the other with this accursed disease. I, as a citizen, would ask, what would my dream be? Getting a 100% cure for this disease. What do I expect as a member of the legislature and what would I ask? The best professionals, the most effective research, the top-end technology, the preventive preventive prevention of cancer, the early diagnosis and the best treatments. Are we on the way to get all this? We don't know. This last month, the health department has talked a lot about cancer, the life hope, or the ideal plan. But we cannot ensure that we are on the way to attain these opposite objects. However, if we share these challenges, it's not a small one. No, I didn't. Today is not the day to discuss an institutional statement against cancer. The topic we've brought today is ideal. But what's the Onkological? It's a lot more than a building in the gym. The ethological has been a reformer, and must remain so in the prevention of cancer, diagnosis, treatment, investigation. A high school that has a public and social goal, even if it's strictly private. It is clear that if we want to be refrections in ethology, if we want to be of the point-point, we must use all the resources we have in our possession. And the ideal can't stop philosophy and beyond this point of view, because this center is necessary because it has a lot of potential. But the Medical Department has refused to integrate the Onkological into the Os share. Over and over again have been accepted to ask for different initiatives in the legislature to begin the interviews of the Onkological to integrate into the public network of the Osacre, and he has not yet completed the written order in the parliament. I have not come down to this rostrum to tell you the story of Onkologikoa, because that information is public and well known. I have come down to ask once again for your integration into Basque public health. You may think that we have not been in a hurry to discuss this issue, because, of course, we recorded it at the beginning of this parliamentary term. I'll tell you before you tell me. We also referred to last year's convention in this GNP. But everyone sets their own paces and, based on different variables, decides when and how to discuss their own initiatives. And that's why we thought today was the perfect time. If at some point we talked about the commitment of the functional integration of this center in the radiotherapy oncology service, in the radiophysics service in the two hospitals, at least on the paper, integration, by the way, which should be completed by last year, the truth is that we have made little further progress. And from our point of view, functional integration should culminate in structural integration, real integration, total integration. What we're dealing with today is a 23 million each year's concert, a potential resource, completely exploited by us. What we have in our hands is that a attractive building paid with the money of the people of Gipulia is and that the excuse of deficit exploitation has been used to establish a privatization dynamic, logic. We're not very clear what sleep is. Mr. Uria once said he was an alien inside the Onkological. Others say it's a brand. Seriously, we don't think we need a brand to collect private insurance patients. So I agree with Uri. this thing, Logi, is only an alien eating more and more private space in this hospital. True, in that center things are being done that have nothing to do with oncology, which is precisely the end with which it was created. It's a shame because at 200 meters we have the Donostia Hospital, which precisely would have to be taking advantage of those spaces in a more efficient way to relax waiting lists, to take advantage of resources. And at another 200 meters we have Biodonostia. That is why, today more than ever, we believe that we must insist that Onkologikoa should be 100 % integrated into Osakidetza. The solution we planned on our initiative was not traumatic. We were planning a path, we were asking for conversation, planning and steps with the Ark Foundation to integrate the Onkological, while we were asking for a functional integration with the Donostian Ospital. That is to say, the interaction of common protocols, the execution of this functional integration, forming a team united with the teams of work in the two hospitals. Flexibility and acceptable request. In the end, it's just an initiative, or just a part of it. But the agreement wasn't possible. So we went back to the first point with Mr. Uria: We've signed middle-class, more precise and shorter. We didn't want to break the consensus. We did not want to break the agreement between the Socialist Group and EH Bildu on the publication of Onkologikoa last parliamentary term. Because when a political group defends for four years such a clear position, with such conviction, because we don't have to believe, we don't have to think that in a few months they're going to take a 180-degree turn. And I insist, there has been a will of agreement on the part of the two proposing groups. We have worked on a compromise amendment that was almost impossible to deny, we have been flexible to unsuspected limits, we have been more flexible than Mr Eguiguren by distributing leaflets on NATO on the Walk of the Shell Do you remember? NATO yes, NATO no. We have been more flexible than Mrs Red with fracking in terms of farms, drilling in the historic territory of Araba. Much more flexible than her, because she took a position in Mr López's government and the opposite in Mr Urkullu's first parliamentary term. Therefore, as I say, flexibility has had a lot, always in the spirit of seeking an agreement, and we are very sorry, seriously. But in the end you, the Socialist Group, the same people who yesterday declared themselves in favour of any publication, have today turned their backs. And we can't be any more flexible because we've been trying to find a deal. It's the last part of your half-way in your seats in the legislature that you and we supported. And by that half-way, we're wondering if we can negotiate with the box the Onkological center and integrate it into the Hosa-American public net. Light and precise, as I said before. Therefore the position which we choose to-day will be very clear: I don't know if it's the funcological publication or not. Of course we will protect this signed medium. But we'll vote everywhere else, that's what I'll tell you. No half inks. No half inks. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, have had a well-wrapped gift in your hands, but you did not want it. So now they're going to have to position themselves seamlessly. Position yourself and explain yourself. Horretarako 10 mintu dituzeu eta arrita mandiz jarraituko dugu zuen interbentzioa. We're going to tell the Popular and the EAJ very low on this first round. We know each other and we know what your position is. The corrections you introduced are similar: Intentional expressions, following analysis, purpose to advance, etc., etc. We've been waiting to do everything you want to do, to obey the orders of this parliament. As I have said, the time has come for light, which every one sincerely believes in defending, and in the second round, more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u57	Bakartxo andrea, lehendakari jauna, Sailburuok, Health Advisor, egun on guztioi, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. I will try to repeat as little as possible the speech by Mrs Eva Blanco, and the debates that have taken place on this subject over the last few years, and the oral question I asked the Health Adviser on 15 December on the financial situation of Onkologikoa de Donostia, which he did not answer, although he made some reference to the weight of the people. It's really not a topic that wants to bother anyone. Nor is it an issue in which we seek that, beyond the normal debates between the PSOE and the PNV in their government pact, the free and independent thoughts of each group are developed according to the coherence of their ideas and positions. It only encourages us to work on this issue again, the financial sustainability of the center, the Onkologikoa hospital and the improvement of services through integration and coordination processes, for patients and patients undergoing cancer treatment. Guipuzcoans and gipuzcoans, of the Autonomous Community and of Euskal Herria, who also go to Onkologikoa. This is a subject to speak seriously, this is a subject of weight. Of importance in the health policies of this government in this legislature. And when I speak of weight, I speak of the weight of deeds, not the weight of words. Words that are repeated over and over again by the head of the Health Council: Basques and Basques always know that they will have the Onkologiko. The Euskadi Comprehensive and Functional Cancer Care Plan has always had the Onkologikoa, and in four or five months it is prepared. "It is a fundamental reference for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients in our Autonomous Community." These are the words, and their real weight, small, let alone none, that we know at this time. The weight of the facts you already know, 2013-2014, the Basque Parliament proposed by majority to initiate the process of publishing the Onkologikoa. It has been proposed on several occasions, by a majority and by consensus among all political forces, to present a functional and comprehensive care plan for cancer patients in the plenary of this Parliament or in the Health Committee. This Parliament has not been heard repeatedly. Mr Councilman, you do not listen to this Parliament, and you sometimes get upset because we say things that do not agree with your plans. Because the real weight of the facts is ultimately the real priorities of the health policies that this government is developing, that does have weight, and not little. To know the health priorities in the facts of every day, because the role and use of the media, the so-called published opinion, that no public opinion, increasingly endures more and more what the Department of Health puts on it, especially in this field of so much weight for people of care for cancer. What is overweight is not listening to Parliament. What really weighs is not listening to oncology professionals. What we are tired of precisely, as heavy as it is, is that we propose again and again, at least in the last five years, a matter to which the adviser has no intention of inflating his tooth with courage, with criteria and with firmness. It prefers the easy, the light, from the point of view of the actual weight of the measure. The supposed functional coordinations between the Oncology Service of the Donostia Hospital and the Onkologikoa Hospital, which, by the way, are not being developed with the necessary weight needed at the moment, as well as the functional coordinators, with the plan of prevention of breast cancer for women, which we know exists. More than 80 years ago the Onkologikoa was born with the vocation of being part of the public network of the Basque health service. We propose that before the end of this term the Onkologikoa be part of the public network of Osakidetza for all purposes, integrating and coordinating all processes of detection, diagnosis, treatment, teaching and postgraduate and research on cancer in our land and consolidating its reference role in this field. We know it's not easy, we know the Basurto Hospital experience in Bilbao. As in all complex matters, we need intelligence, management capacity, democratic sensitivity, adequate budgets every year and, above all, political decision-making. Logically, a publishing plan must include timetables, route itineraries, protocols, plans of different types, such as the approval and size of the staff, such as establishing the appropriate organization of the role to be played in the network of hospitals, updating diagnostic equipment and technology. I was returning from Sahara and I was called by the doctors at Onkologikoa Hospital to tell me that the radiosurgery unit has become obsolete, it does not work, it has stopped, there is no budget for its renewal and the patients at the moment, also Gipuzcoans and Gipuzcoans, are being derived from the hospitals of Cruces and Basurto. We want to say with respect and firmness that the weight of this decision is important, because it can have the support of the whole parliamentary arc if the councillor really takes it with the necessary boldness. If you want your management work, your health policies to be respected, your opinions to have a bearing on our political debates and our views, you must take decisions that are echoed by the majority of this Parliament. We are the representatives of the people, we are the democracy in Euskadi, we and we represent the opinion of the people. The private sector of health care is there, it has its own weight, and today it does not have to talk about it, but public money is there too, the money of all of us and of all of us, and if they stop investing the 23 million, already twenty-three and a half, by agreement in the Onkologikoa, this could go bankrupt sooner than later. We are for the financial sustainability of Onkologikoa for all the gipuzcoans and for all the gipuzcoans and for all the inhabitants of Euskal Herria. We are not to indirectly promote privatization experiments whose benefits and fate we do not know, proposed by Madrid consultancies that disembark in Donostia as an elephant in a cacharrería. We are about to put our health centres on the stand, so that they have adequate funding on the public network, so that people feel comfortable with their health system – hey, hey, don't pass it on, you feel it – that they feel more comfortable because we can make decisions. To be effective, transparent and to listen and respond to the views of professional, trade union and political agents, we propose the publication of Onkologikoa. Do not listen, counselor, to those who advise you to delay the decision. They're gonna get him in trouble, in a dead end, while they get profits from the Onkologikoa facility, which we all pay for. This decision is a good matter of weight in this legislature, of quite weight. If the councillor does not have complexes – complex in the sense of complicating his legislature – and does well, we will support him. And the comrades of the PSOE have to reflect on what is a free and independent thought in a political pact of government. We do not propose anything other than what Mrs Eva Blanco has said, an exact text to what Mrs Blanca Roncal proposed in previous years. We are not new to these issues, we pick up the issues that have been discussed here before. My children tell me the other day, "Who's in charge of Parliament?" "In Parliament he sends the president." "No, in this Onkologikoa and such." "In Onkologikoa have some weight the PNV of Donostia, the Batzokis of Donostia, the Gipuzkoa Buru Batzar, I don't know." And I asked Egibar, parliamentarian Egibar, and he said, "No, this is where Jon Darpón sends, the Socialists and the whole world, because he has his plans and he doesn't think it's right that the others have other plans." And it is that Parliament is for the plans to be contrasted, for the priorities to be contrasted, what is Parliament for? We don't want to bother anyone, but you have to think about these things, it can't be that every time you look for your own political coherence you have a grudge in the government. If the councillor makes decisions that have to do with what the Onkologikoa staff says, with what the social partners say or with what we say some humble political groups, we will support him. And if the Socialist Party, instead of messing with the PNV, is simply and simply consistent with its own criteria, which it has written in the Donostia City Hall, in the Gipuzkoa Parliament and in this Parliament, we will support it. But don't get us into this mess. We're talking about very simple things. Don't get us into a mess of absolute incoherence, and let the counselor lead matters where he's not spending hours. He says in five months he's gonna put on the table a functional cancer plan. Let's see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. The president, chief physician, chief physician of the Medical Department, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Uria, what is of course important to the People's Party is coherence, which is what we are going to maintain today in this plenary, at this point, and our position is going to be, of course, the position we have always held and we have also shaped, we clearly reflected in the last parliamentary term. We may say that the Oncological is a reference in different parts of theological care: in prevention, in indulgence, in diagnosis and treatment. And that value, having a reference, I think we should admit it, and it is clear that the value is there. Onkologikoa has been and is a center of reference, diagnosis, research, prevention and treatment of cancer in Donostia, and, of course, it is necessary to recognize its value and it is fair to recognize that value. We all know that Onkologiko is the property of the Kutxa, which assumed the social work in 1952. It became a foundation in 2010, Onkologikoa Foundation, a non-profit foundation, whose activity is limited to tasks of public interest. It fulfils a public function, even if its ownership is not public, as defined in 2010. Twenty years ago an agreement was signed with the Medical Department and it's clear that he plays his part in health especially in Euskandin and Gipuzia. For more than 20 years, an agreement has been signed with the Department of Health. In this sense, it plays an important role within the Basque health network. The Convention is extended each year and has the possibility of being extended for five years. The agreement guarantees funding to Onkologikoa by the Department of Health. Therefore, under this agreement, Onkologikoa takes care of patients, not only of Gipuzkoa, but other places in Euskadi, which derives from Osakidetza. But it is also true that it treats patients who come from private or private insurance. Therefore, we believe that the value of Onkologikoa and its role, played as complementary within a unique oncological model that is towards what has clearly walked functional integration, should be highlighted. In the view of the Group of the European People's Party, we are obviously faced with two entities with different ownership. But we consider, and have always defended it, that they are absolutely complementary institutions and that the way must be collaboration, coordination between the two entities, in order to provide a unique, homogeneous and integral care to patients with oncology. The planning of the oncology activity should also be carried out in a coordinated and joint manner, which is what it has intended and has been the object of functional integration. But I think it should also be remembered that the decision on functional integration did not follow a mere whim, but was the result of a process of reflection by a working group with professionals from both centres and with the Health Department itself, which, at the time, already reflected the experts, the oncological care professionals, to identify possible areas for improvement. And it was concluded that the best option was functional integration and those conclusions, as you all know, are embodied in various documents. We have defended and continue to advocate that functional integration allows for more comprehensive, more homogeneous care for patients with cancer, while allowing the use of public resources in a more optimal, efficient and sustainable way, and at the same time trying to avoid duplication. To this end, a timetable has been established for the entire functional integration process, which includes various aspects which, moreover, the adviser has been explaining here on many occasions, in the Health Commission. Radiotherapeutic oncology integration, hospital radiophysics, single management of waiting lists, distribution of patients between different centers according to the pathology and greater value that each center could bring, integration of information systems, single registration of patients, establishment of single treatment protocols, incorporation of professionals in single tumor committees. I believe that, in this sense, the potential of each of the centres has been exploited in order to move towards that more optimal, more homogeneous and more comprehensive treatment. In that sense, our position is the same, we have not changed, Mr Uria, Mrs Blanco. I also have to say that the Socialist Party maintained a position during the last four years of the legislature, but it was not the same as it did when it had responsibilities as a government, because it did not move forward, and the previous advisor to Mr Darpón was Mr Bengoa of the Socialist Party, and we all know that it did not move forward towards the publication of Onkologikoa, nor did we have any initiative in this Parliament on this issue. The issue arose precisely when there was a change in the government and the Basque Nationalist Party was again occupied by the government in a coalition pact with the Socialist Party, in which the lehendakari is Mr Urkullu. That is how things are and everyone will have to account for their positions and, if necessary, their changes in positions and what motivates them, if they want to do so; it is obviously in their right. With regard to the initiatives put forward, there is a compromise amendment. We are obviously going to stand against it and I think it is no surprise, Mrs Blanco, Mr Uria, the position of the People's Party. Let's defend ours. We would have liked a compromise, because we understand that the starting approach with the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party is quite similar, although there was a difference. We were talking, as did the amendment by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, about ensuring funding and sufficient and stable funding, in order to guarantee this provision, a service of comprehensive quality. But we were talking about something else that we thought was important and we reflected it in our amendment, which is an analysis of the whole functional integration process and also see how that whole integration process has gone and the evaluation of all the aspects carried out in that timetable that was established. We shall abstain from the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, believing that there were points in common and for the sake of the compromise amendment to come out, but, well, I say that our position is a position of coherence and, therefore, I do not believe that this intervention gives rise to any kind of change, of suspicion in that sense in any of the other groups. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u61	Yes, thank you, President. The issue we are discussing is not a new one, it has been discussed on numerous occasions in this House, but it has also been discussed and voted on in different institutions in Gipuzcoana, in addition to the different pronouncements of each other. The concern to have a reference center in treatment, research and service in oncology is shared and defended by the different political groups here or there. The qualification of Onkologikoa as a milestone in Basque health is also not questioned. The assessment of professionals is the same or very similar to that of all of us here, and the perception of citizens is positive and optimistic about the centre. Therefore, the desire for this centre to continue its work is not in question. The two initiatives that we are discussing together today concern two issues: on the one hand, the conversion of Osakidetza into a reference of oncology and, on the other hand, the request of Elkarrekin We can publish the Onkologikoa Hospital of Donostia. The Socialists defend, today and always, a public and quality health service that guarantees the right to health of all people. That's what we've always defended. And in recent years we have manifested it a few times. On December 18, 2014, Blanca Roncal, a socialist spokesman in this matter, said in a textual way: "The Socialists recognize, however, the existence of concertation. Of course, we recognize the existence of important health companies that play a complementary role when the public network does not arrive." "But private management companies should not be fundamentally and almost exclusively supported by the public system. When this happens, when their support is with public money, it must be integrated into the public network, so that the planning of services, the management of services, the function and the mission, since the support is through public services, is also public responsibility." This was our position that day, and today I repeat those words and we share them. We recognize that this is a complex issue, which directly affects citizens, which has to do with the budget, but not with the service, because it is not questioned. And that while we all share the work that is done there, we find the disagreement in the management approach. We say in advance that a change in management is more than complex, that in no case could it be from today to tomorrow, that would involve countless efforts, ranging from the budget to the situation of workers and their integration, without forgetting at any time the guarantee of the quality of service, the maintenance of research and the commitment to be referents in this field of health. We are convinced of the public service and in this matter we defend the monographic nature of cancer treatments and control of the resources allocated. Furthermore, we are also convinced that Onkologikoa is a reference in the research, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer and, in addition to being so, citizens perceive it, and a fundamental and quality centre that provides confidence to those who must come to it. At this stage of the debate, we all know the positions of all political groups. We could revisit and explain the history of the Hospital de Basurto, how it was, what it was like after a very complex process that was not without difficulties. We could continue to repeat all the debates already held, but, in our view, it is important to respond to the initiatives we have on the table. As we said in April 2015, society has evolved a lot since the Onkologikoa began its journey in 1952 through the social work and support of public administrations, as well as the municipal and provincial savings banks. Today, the priority social needs are very different from those of health care, since health care is assumed by the public authorities. That is why we understand that the steps to take are important, and consensus, collaboration and complicity are necessary to move forward. One aspect that appears both in the original initiatives and in the compromise amendment is functional integration, an issue already discussed, agreed and even launched at the time and with which we agree, which is why it appeared as one of the points of the amendment tabled by us. All that has been said so far does not conflict with the compromise amendment signed last December to EH Bildu's GNP. The text proposed the desire to guarantee a quality and reference service in the treatment of cancer research, to advance functional integration and the commitment to develop the Oncological Plan. We share these three points in their day and we share them today, and I understand that most of those who are in the House today also. And, on the other hand, we stand by what was signed in the compromise amendment concerning the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative, in which we insisted on the development of the Oncological Plan. Today we are going to stand up for our amendment as a whole, because it reflects all these points that I have indicated at this time. Obviously, we were presenting two, we are going to vote first, the first amendment tabled, which is the first amendment tabled in the register, because that is what the procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the House proposes, and therefore, that amendment will be voted on in full before the initiative of Bildu, because it is the first amendment registered, and if it is approved, the second amendment will fall to the whole that we are presenting together with the Basque Nationalist group. However, I believe that this first one is broader, it captures much more clearly the question of protocols, the importance of these functional integration protocols, to continue providing that quality service and to be a reference in cancer research treatment. And, on the other hand, also the need for the Basque Government to develop this Oncological Plan based on the analysis of the current situation, which will mark the goals and strategies of all the oncology resources of Euskadi. I think we have to take steps, step by step, in an important way, not beginning at the end, but following the whole procedure in order. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u63	Good morning, everyone. I'll try to build this part of us up in construction mode. It's not a new topic. Another congressman mentioned 2013. that they had been employed in the course of the year about this enterprise, and had several other undertakings discussed in this case, or upon this subject. But I think it's important to clear up our attitude. For here words and actions have been mentioned, and I should like to add the results too, because the results are very important, because they really weigh with what Mr. Uria said, because they are reality itself. And in that sense, I think it's very important to notice that a few days ago we had the opportunity to recognize the study of "Esquekadin" survival in "2000-2012 cancer." Some will say, and that with regard to what Mr. Uria also has said, Opinión may be publicized. I don't know if that's what it's going to be, but in doing this study, it's partly a team of professionals and professionals in the CIBER, which is a lot of groups. And why do I think it's important to mention this study in this case? Because the main effect has been since 2000, the survival of cancer has generally been very significant, so I mentioned that it's very important to talk about the results. In this study, among other things, it was said, or inferred that more than half of the patients who have suffered cancer five years from diagnosis. In order to be more specific, survival has been raised in five to six points. Besides, it confirms that in Spain, and in the European Union, the survival is greater than the average in the Euscal Autonomy in Spain. And I do not wish to enter into the deeper or more accurate analysis or reflection about this study, which is not to-day the subject, but I think it is important to establish the subject or our attitude. For it is very significant, and may be remarked, from the consequences of this study, what the commitment to the health department and to the members of the Osar is to prevent cancer during years and now. And, as the Chief Darpón has confirmed, it is the main commitment or purpose to continue to fight against cancer, to give the best attention to the goodological patient, to reduce the death rate, and to increase the survival of life. And that's the main goal, and I think we all share this great goal. This study, therefore, must, in addition to the giving of these facts, give occasion to estimate of the strategies or planning which have hitherto been developed to prevent cancer, and also to know the efficiency of the Diagnostic andrapeutic progresses which have been developed during the years of disease and the development of the Osalist. In fact, this study shows that in the past years we have progressed in the medical treatments of cancer. Fortunately, the cancer is becoming more and more frequently a chronic disease, and this has been possible, on the one hand, for the betting on prevention during many years, for the early diagnosis. Even from new treatments, and also from the progress of our research or investigation, which gave us occasion to struggle against custom therapy and cancer. And lastly, by the continual effort of providing and investing the means, and also of arranging and ingratiating professional members. So we'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to give our thanks to all these professionals, to the Oscars, to all those professionals of Onkological, to thank us. But at the same time we want to ask the Medical Department to continue this engagement and the boarders. For today, unfortunately, cancer still remains a disease which has too much influence on our society. So we want to ask the health department to continue to bet on quality attention to the good patient. That is what we demanded in our full correction: In the integral way, for the prejudication and custom treatment. To do this, to hold up and strengthen the programmes for a nice preventive and observation and an early diagnosis. And in this sense, we applaud, or wish to mention, the recent announcement of the chief physician's initiative, namely, that before summer, the program of the premature detection of the child-house or of the Cervix cancer will be set to work. Thus, as we have been shown by the data of this study, the planing is indispensable in order to achieve the best results in the artology, in order to continue the improvement of the results. In order to make use of these means as well as possible, from the present state, in order to determine what ends and strategies should be made for the years to come. And that's exactly what we were asking for in our corrections to do, and that's all we need to think about, agreeing with the health department's initiatives and strategicities, and then to join in the Integration of the Basque Plankological Plane and cancer. That's how it's been recorded in our party's election program, statewide, and that's what we asked for in our correction. And, Mr. Uria, you mentioned the response that the head physician of the health department gave you. Well, I think that's what Darpón's chief told you about that. The Euscadic Onkology Plan In Inthegra will receive many fields and various furrows of work, and will be considered also by the Oncological, in which we must examine or see whether the contribution of the Oncological is to be the part or paper. But he made it clear, and actions and results have shown that theological is very important already in our health system. So, as it is also in our corrections, we insist on continuing to penetrate into the functional integration of the Onkological and the University of Donostania Hospital, as we have hitherto asked for. We remember the doubts that arose in the preceding law, and in some words the red alarms were opened to the privatization of the gates, with the intention of selling the Oncological to someone. At last words are carried away by wind, and actions and reality remain. It's been five years since we discussed the initiative, and now stability in Onkologically prevails. As far as financial stability is concerned, stability as a work charge, progress has been given in conjunction with the University Hospital at Donosts, progress has been advanced in functional integration. But the most important thing is that the sick people who get cancer continue to be primary in both hospitals. And that's what we're trying to emphasise, connected with the study we were talking about at first. That's the most important thing, and, in the opinion of our team, the priority. In conclusion, so far as the head of the Medical Department has expressed itself in the line and our programme, it is our principal aim, in order to obtain a single standard of charity for the land of Gipulia, which is always integrated with the care of the Euscataology in our system. In fact, that's the best way we think we can afford to pay the best attention to the patients who have cancer. So we're going to support our correction, we're not going to protect PP's correction, because we think the health department is engaged to introduce this plan into the Chamber, and because we think it's not compatible to exhibiting it and bringing back the report or analysis you're talking about. So just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. By answering round, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u65	Thank you again, ma'am. I'll start at the end. Mr. Orbe, you've been talking about a study for eight minutes, talking about an investigation, well, it's a share, but it's only a couple of minutes around the Onkological, or it isn't here. And it's around the publication that's right in the middle of the process, not a single one. But, as has been said before, we know what are the positions of each. Mrs Garrido defends functional integration, but she does not talk about structural integration, which we believe also carries the other. And it's also our intention. Well, he was saying something in his amendment to the whole, but, as always, I don't know how many months for the government to come to explain to us how we do it, what a potato they're potato. Well, look, Mrs. Garrido, another legislature, four more years. In its amendment it said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to fulfil the commitments made in relation to Onkologikoa. I do not know whether it refers to the commitments that the Government has made to Onkologikoa, which have already been made, or to the commitments that have been made in this House, because they have been several and unfulfilled, as I said in my first speech. Mrs Sánchez, welcome I do not know if the Health Committee welcomes the debates on health issues. In your speech I see that you have defended public health, but how well you conceal it, how well you conceal it and what breaks you have had to do from one side to another to try to save the situation you have here. Of course you agree with many of the things that have been adopted in this House, that is precisely what I want to underline today, and you agree with our original GNP, you agree with Mr Uria and you agree with the compromise amendment that we have signed, what happens is that you cannot say it, but you agree. What swallows they've got! Look, I'll remember a few words from Mrs. Castelo, who's very close to you. At the fiscal plenary held just now, Mrs. Castelo literally said: "And therefore, when she talks to me or is asked coherence in the positions or in the topic this, I usually look for data to know if others have or are not legitimized to call me incoherent." Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, five minutes of diving on the website of this Parliament are to blame and I will list Mrs Roncal's initiatives the last parliamentary term: an inquiry, an oral question, five written questions, two requests for attendance, three requests for information, a motion and several GNPs, with the position always clear and in favour of the publication of the Onkologikoa, that is yours. Later, the same positioning in those of this group, which were also quite initiatives. You have appointed Mrs Roncal, you have referred to some of her words, I will quote others. Mrs Roncal said: "The Socialist Party has always spoken publicly about its approach to Onkologiko in favour of integration into public health. Whenever he had to speak, he voted in favour." He voted, yes, it's coming to my hair. Program of the Socialist Party in the year 2016, elections to the Basque Parliament: point six, Sanitary Infrastructures, creation of new centers, Gipuzkoa, incorporate the Onkologikoa Institute in the Basque Health Service-Osakidetza. Mrs. Castelo, do you think I have enough arguments to call them incoherent? It seems to me that yes, quite: inconsistent, incongruent, contradictory and all the synonyms that come to mind. Today we are truly legitimized, for that and for much more, you alone have put the gold medal to incoherence. And if today the Onkologikoa is not in the Basque health system, if today the Onkologikoa is not integrated in Basque public health it is thanks to the Socialist Group's ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to Mr Prieto, thank you to Mrs Mendia, thank you to Mr Pastor, thank you to Mr Andueza, who is not here, but I wish you much encouragement to explain what is happening here today to your people in Gipuzkoa, thank you to Mrs Castelo, to Mrs Red, to Mrs Corcuera, to Mrs Sánchez and to Mrs Romero. Thank you all and all of you. And if anything becomes clear today after this debate, there are two issues. One, which has broken the agreement that the last legislature had, which has broken the position that there was on the publication of the Onkologiko, has become meridianally clear. And another thing has become very clear, that in the government the owners and lords, the mistresses and the masters are on this bench, because you are lackeys and lackeys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u67	Mrs. Solité, President, chief physician, señor Darpón. I thank parliamentarian Orbegozo for his efforts to explain to us the results of the cancer care that Osakidetza systematically provides to our population. They always thank each other. I have been evaluating the cancer program for 10 years, we know the results, we know the excellence of the work, we know the protocols and we know the functioning, at least, of all the hospitals in Bizkaia, but we are always grateful for the effort you make to legitimize what we already know is legitimized. What we don't know is how much more the Department of Health is going to put into Onkologikoa when they begin to finish the periods of amortization of the state-of-the-art technology it has. We're done with the Radiosurgery Unit, which is out of date. Because with 23.5 million with an annual deficit of about 4 million, it doesn't work. An extraordinary investment has to be made in Onkologikoa, I suppose the Health Department takes it into account, for technological replenishment and to maintain the point of diagnostic capacity that Mr Orbegozo very well explained, the point of diagnostic, therapeutic and early detection capacity. That is a problem that Onkologikoa has: the need for an extraordinary, not small investment. I understand the problems socialists have in organizing their pact. I just want to say that they don't tie our heads very much and that we can reach agreements on social policies. Coherence of thought is an essential part of this Parliament, because, if not, we all go a little crazy and crazy. We don't know how to bargain and with whom to bargain, because there are hidden powers and powers,—no, man, no, the CIA is recording everything, that we already know. No, hidden powers, no. The Department of Health that leads Dr. Jon Darpón, because he's here, has a management style that we don't share at this point. We do not share their deadlines, their priorities, or how they deal with public-private collaboration. Or what does Mr Orbegozo, or Mrs Garrido, think? Is managing the public and private in partnership simpler than managing an integrated public network? With what examples in the public sector? With Tolosaldea? What examples do they have? They know that public-private collaboration in the health sector is always unfair competition with the public sector and always loses the public sector, because the private sector by definition has profit interests, profit interests, always. Jota man, don't talk like that, don't get involved in 11-bar movies. Always. All international assessments, in the UK, France, Germany, Holland, Madrid, Valencia, always lose the public sector, because it is always decapitalized. More investment, more financial sustainability, integration plans, welcome be all, Laura Garrido, enchanted, companion; Orbegozo, enchanted, welcome be. Functional integration plans: if we agree, if this GNP had a consensus vocation, it did not intend to create an unnecessary controversy, neither of a political nature nor of a technical nature. Controversy is created by incoherence in covenant processes. I was commenting with parliamentarian Iturrate, who always gives me guidance on these issues, that Onkologikoa is not in the pact, such as the right to decide. And says MP Iturrate, point four, Uria, point four that you haven't read. The Onkologikoa is not in the pact, he says, yes, but he talks about facilitating government action, Uria. Facilitating Government action is for Onkologikoa to enter the functional network. How far do we want to pull the rope to organize the need for free thinking in social policies? Managing the public and the private is always more complex than managing the public. We know the results of the cancer work, so far we have nothing to say. And the only thing we ask is that what has not been achieved today, which was to egg, because we are going to try to make an effort, not only the Socialist bench, which has its own reflection, which I suppose will be important, especially with its people in Donostia, with its groups; PNV of Donostia militants, PP of Donostia militants, PSOE of Donostia militants have clear the theme of Onkologiko. I don't know who we represent sometimes who we are and who we are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u69	Yes, from the seat, if you'll excuse me. Mr Uria, you will know your voters very well, and we try to know our own. But not only our own, but also the whole of the Gipuzcoan population and the whole of the Basque population, who are the ones who benefit at the end of the oncology services that may be available in our autonomous community. We do believe in public and private collaboration, but because we believe that from criteria of efficiency, sustainability and quality, and, in this case, assist them, it is a formula that has worked and is working. In relation to the process of functional integration, this has not been the result of chance. I referred in my first speech to the fact that there has been a process of reflection and to the decisions which affect and which are relevant and which cover technical aspects of the areas concerned. Here there was a working group composed of expert professionals from Onkologikoa, Donostia Hospital, the Department of Health, and in this process of reflection it was concluded that the best decision was this functional integration. This from the publication of the Onkologiko is relatively new, Mrs Blanco and Mr Uria. In addition, Mrs Blanco, you who are very rigorous in reviewing the hemeroteca, you know that this story of publication appeared, I do not know whether by chance or by conviction, the last legislature, that in the previous legislature there was a socialist councilman who did not speak here at all about the publication of Onkologikoa. I therefore believe that this debate is relatively new, for us it is not justified and I believe that functional integration in the terms in which it has been raised is good, it is producing results, and I believe that it is playing with experiments, which are also relatively new, that we do not know where they are going and that they are more in line with criteria, in some cases merely opportunistic, or with mere changes of position, because I believe that this is not the way forward. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u71	Yes, Madam President, from the seat. We believe that, in any case, the Onkologikoa is in operation. Its operation is guaranteed, its service is guaranteed and it is a quality service. He's performing a public service right now. That's obvious. We haven't changed the speech. Mrs Roncal has always defended the publication of Onkologikoa Hospital and we continue to defend it. But you have to follow a proper order. It is not the first step to take, it may be the last, but first you have to take other steps, such as functional integration, perform a protocol correctly, make that oncological plan where a schedule is established, where it is done in an orderly way, and at the end you get there. It can't be the beginning. You want to put the roof on a wall and let that roof fall. No, sir. You have to follow the steps and the last step is that. But first we have to make progress in functional integration and in the oncological plan in order to achieve that end. In that we have not changed our position from the beginning. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I'll also try to take the second intervention with the build-up. And I don't know if I've spent eight minutes explaining that study, but I hope I've followed it. For, as has been said, words, actions, and results are one thing. And it's clear that you're not interested in the results. That's clear. You have not yet explained to us how much better it would be with the proposal you make to the people in the minkology. We're waiting, we're waiting. We'd like to be able to hire that. You're involved, as I said before, five years ago, since you introduced this initial initiative, and you're stubborn because you don't think of it. You introduced this initiative just for politics. Just politics. As I said to you, you do not at all explain how the attention of educology would improve. She doesn't come at all. And, on the other hand, you use them to cut each other's wood, and, with a little tasteless style, I must say a little bit of it with ill taste. But where are those red carpets left, those red carpets to prebate? Where are they? Is the Onkological? Is the Onkological at least five years from now on on, the Onkological is on the line? That's not reality. That doesn't agree with reality, Mrs. Blanco. And when you mention that the Onkological must be included in the public health system, or must be integrated into it, has it not already been inserted? Isn't it true that the users don't go to the Onkological or the Onkological Hospital or the University Hospital? Don't they go both as long as the professionals decide? Isn't that integrated? It's another thing you're talking about: Publicization. But you'll have to explain to us how a privilege would be so dangerous as to make a private thing, or in other words: If you want to publish something, it's because it's private, right? So we'll have to consider that second part, too. In making this integration you require, we must also consider that second part, because he has his rights and his interests. In any case, I think it's a very bad technique if we want the Medical Department to buy or exploit the Onkological department, I don't know if that's what you plan after all. I think it's a very bad technique to sell something to someone who doesn't want to ask and sell. For then the price will be even greater. I'm not going in there. I don't think we're about that right now, when we're thinking about it. But, well, I think we ought to be honest with ourselves. The situation of five years ago isn't exactly the same as we've got today, the beds haven't been emptied, the Oncological hasn't been emptied, and then one of them has to come from there and buy at a cheaper price. That's not the current situation. The oncological is better than ever, functional integration has progressed, and services to be given to the people are of a higher quality than ever. So what we've just said, we won't protect the middle zone, and we'll support ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, and together the half-correction of the Podemos teams. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u75	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u76	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of the Basque Socialists as a whole. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Abstations 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u77	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentarian Society made, is to refuse the homages made to members of the terrorist organization or to persons connected with the activities of that institution. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Sémper, representative of the Basque Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u78	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eguerdi on guztioi. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen. As you know, a while ago, a few weeks ago, the People's Parliamentary Group put forward a non-legislative proposal in the register of this House in the face of facts that seemed to us to be deeply despicable and rejectable, which consisted of the following, in a summary way. Over the past year, more than 70 tributes and receptions to ETA prisoners have been held in the towns and cities of Euskadi, once they have been released from prison and served their sentence. In 2018 alone we already have four tributes celebrated and four receptions celebrated to ETA members. This fact, this event, could not afford to go unnoticed. They are tributes and receptions with the usual scenery. Corridors in the old parts of our towns and cities. Halls with ikurriñas, with the flag of everyone, honoring and receiving murderers. Receptions in municipal halls, where the mayor's chair is handed over to those who have been released from prison. Receptions in the squares of villages with minors, with children, with whom you all know, as we know, who will share and who will be the protagonists of the Euskadi of the future. In short, the occupation of public space to pay tribute, to exalt and to applaud those who have done so much harm to Basque society, who have reaped lives and who have also projected a deeply negative, rejectable and despicable image of Euskadi. In this regard, we would also like to acknowledge and recall the work of the group of victims of the terrorism of the Basque Country, of Covite, in the enormous and fundamental work that it is doing to make these facts visible and so that they do not go unnoticed and do not fall into oblivion. Throughout the macabre history of ETA, over so many years and so many decades of suffering and pain, of so many victims, of so much blood, of so much confrontation, in short, of so many jirons caused to Basque society as a whole, I don't think anyone can deny that this one had a majority position against ETA. Sometimes politicians, sometimes parliaments, sometimes institutions, were not all likely up to that majority rejection. And on too many occasions we were not up to it by uniting all of us with the same force, all of us with the same firmness against terrorism. But it is an indisputable and unquestionable reality that the vast majority of Basque society has always been against terrorism. He was always against ETA. In parallel, the terrorist gang ignored. ETA has always ignored that society to which it intended to save. Because it's worth remembering these things. ETA not only killed on behalf of a political project, it not only killed and killed on behalf of a hypothetical independence, but it did so on behalf of all Basques. ETA every time he pulled the trigger, every time he put a bomb, every time he kidnapped someone, every time he was afraid on the street, someone was chased, it was done on behalf of Euskadi, it was done on behalf of the citizens of this country. ETA never listened to the majority will of Euskadi, so ETA harmed the victims of terrorism and today they deserve once again, and this plenary has been a reflection of that, our recognition and our memory. By the way, extended today, let me also, Jorge Díaz Elorza, member of the Ertzaintza murdered also with Fernando Buesa. And today, once we have been able to overcome the darkest stage in the history of Euskadi, once we have been able to defeat the ETA of the pistols, who ignored the majority will of the Basques, who have done so much damage to us, once they are serving their sentences they go out to the street and claim applause in the public square, pretend recognition, claim homage after so much damage and so much suffering caused, pretend to be applauded and recognized, and, moreover, let us look elsewhere and accept a veil of silence and a veil, therefore, of complicity to this which is profoundly unacceptable. It is likely that this macabre scene of reception and homage, which is not new, that we have been seeing over the last few years, responds to something more than a macabre immorality, which is, is profoundly immoral to receive someone as a hero when he only deserves contempt and shame. It probably also responds to a need of that world in the face of a reality that has overcome them, and it is that after so many years of murdering, after so many years of campaigning in a terrorist organization, then, probably also so many years in prison, they go out on the street and meet a Euskadi they did not expect, with a Euskadi that puzzles them. And before the silence of the day after the return of the prison, those who have supported them, those who have jailed them, intend to make up for that life cast by the edge, with applause and with tribute. But the relevant thing here is not why, which is relevant, the relevant thing here is not whether they do it convinced or by a certain strategy, the important thing is what others do before this. The important thing is what we do who have to be representatives of a majority will of the Basques against ETA then, today also against the tribute and applause of those who have done so much harm, in the face of these events and this staging and in the face of the praises of terror. That is why we are convinced that we cannot look elsewhere and that is why we are presenting this non-law proposal, and we cannot do so, first for the memory of the victims of terrorism, for the memory of Joseba Pagaza. The last tribute was in Andoain a few days after the memory of his figure, of the memory of his murder, last Sunday a tribute was held to those who were the chivatos, the necessary collaborators, those who provoked those letters that Joseba Pagazaurtundua had to write before being murdered, in which he alerted and in which he recognized that he felt harassed and persecuted. We cannot do so for the memory of the victims of terrorism, of course, but we cannot do so for the dignity of this land. We can't do it because of the dignity of those who are sitting here, we can't do it because of the dignity of so many hundreds, so many thousands, so many thousands of Basque citizens who were able to overcome fear and confront ETA by saying on the street "stop already" or "AND let us live in peace". We believe deeply in the democratic and rule of law state, like the vast majority of those we are sitting here, and we calmly witness the fact that the passing of the years is leading to the enforcement of sentences, which causes and allows the person who did so much harm after spending time in prison to go out on the street. I insist, we assist calmly to this fact. I insist, we assist calmly to this fact. What no one can ask of us, what no one can demand of us is that we be silent in the face of the applause of those who did so much harm, those who served custodial sentences, those who went through prison, for having killed and for having done so much harm. This is an almost pre-political or pre-democratic demand, this is something that defines us as a society, from our point of view. How we react to this, as well as how we react to terrorism in its day, to murders in its day, also defines us. How we now react to the occupation of the public space, the public square, by those who want to applaud, I insist, in front of minors, and in front of children, to whom they have done so much harm. Either because he snuck, or because he pointed out the one who had to be killed, or because he pulled the trigger after someone helped him by pointing out the one who had to be killed, as it is in the case of Joseba Pagaza. And this is the core of what we want to share with you today and of what we are absolutely convinced of, which is the important thing to be able to build a memory that, in a way, will immunize us in the future that something else will happen to us again. Last Sunday in Andoain, there were, as I told you before, boys and girls. Last Sunday in Andoain there were teenagers, boys and girls who have not experienced terrorism, boys and girls who saw in an environment of hundreds of people to be honored and to applaud those who have committed such atrocities. Boys and girls who are going to star in the Euskadi of the future, who are going to star with our children, boys and girls, to whom these applause and this reception, also inoculate a mistaken idea of what living together in democracy is, because they inoculate and transfer hatred. And they have no right to spread hatred to the future generation. They have no right to harm the next generation too, the harm they have done to us. There is no right for those today who are children and adolescents to grow up believing that there is some possible justification, that there is some defendable argument to take anyone's life for defending a political position. There's no right for them to do that to the next generation. And I am thinking especially of you, who are the most responsible in this, who are the most responsible in not inoculating that hatred to those who come after, to the future generation. The others have always been clear, and there are no greys. Killing's wrong. Murder has no justification. And those who have killed and served their sentence can be received, would miss more, by their relatives, by their loved ones, in the private sphere of their home, of their home. Because the question that must also be asked is why is it not honoured who broke the discipline of ETA and decided to separate himself from the organization? Why has no repentant ever been honoured? Why have we never seen, in any square in Euskadi, a reception of someone who, after his criminal trajectory, got into crisis and was able to turn around his trajectory and rectify, and abandon the discipline of the band? Some because they were killed, like the Yoyes case. And from here, a special hug to Akaitz. Others did not run the same fate as Yoyes, but were repudiated. And others, the vast majority of those who have refused and rectified, because they do not want that tribute, because they are aware of the added damage they inflict. But you have to have a minimum of dignity, something you have to stay in the bowels of the human being to act like this. When after you've killed and gone to jail, you accept that they applaud you in your house and that they applaud you a few meters from where there were murdered people, of course it is very responsible who applaud you and who is jealous of you. But whoever gets out of jail like this is also deeply responsible. And I think that it is also appropriate to keep this in mind. That is why I would also like to say to you that we welcome the correction of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the correction which leads to the express rejection of these kinds of tributes being included in your amendment. Correction that did not exist and correction that has been included, which coincides with the correction demanded also and defended by Podemos and by the People's Party in proposing no law of origin and therefore we, asking beforehand for the point vote of your compromise amendment, announce that we will vote in favour, of course, of the first point, of rejection, and we will abstain in the rest. Today was a day to have been concise, clear and direct, not to have lost us in strange vericouetos in... Today was the day to have rejected this and to have stayed there, to have abounded in what we share and in what comforts, from our point of view, Basque society and the dignity of politics also in Euskadi. We remain that this Parliament will today reject in an overwhelming majority that on the streets of Euskadi, that in our towns and cities it is received as heroes who deserve nothing but shame and, in any case, silence from their fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u79	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos, Mr Martínnez, yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u80	Congressmen, ladies of tables, good morning, good noon to all. A few months ago Joshua Elespe in this very Parliament explained that receiving prisoners with the epic of the hero who has given his life to a just cause is not only offensive to the victim and to society, but is offensive to ethics. Even Atdoitz Koorta said in this parliament: "I think it's not healthy to swear publicly." He also said that it was natural that the relatives should receive people who had been in prison. These two people did, talked about this to the presentation of memory and coexistence, that presentation in which the same People's Party that brings this issue to plenary today does not participate and, Mr Semper, Mr Alonso, with all due respect, perhaps the place and the time to discuss all this is another. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we have told him a thousand times, both in public and in private, that they participate in the presentation, that they participate, because their voice is necessary, is necessary to build a story shared by all Basque society. A story that, by sharing, in no way renounces to be truthful and this we say to you a thousand and one times, even though we are far away, we are far from its tones and its forms, and many times from its intentions, when you bring these issues back to plenary again and again, even today, but even today with this debate that you are bringing we reiterate the invitation, with this debate that you are forcing us to reiterate the invitation. Look, I believe, and I say this with complete humility, that today it is up to us to say uncomfortable things in this rostrum and not with the intention of hurting anyone, but because they are of justice and because I believe that it is necessary to do so to call for sanity, a sanity that awaits, yearns for and demands Basque citizenship. It is, as I have said, a day perhaps to say unpleasant things in this plune, and not to offend any one, but because they ought to be said for justice, and because we believe that the eussacal society requires that it should speak calmly of this subject, and demands a great deal. I think it cannot be said that in Elkarrekin we have not put everything on our side, until we could not, to try to get an agreement out of this debate. A broad agreement, as broad as possible, broad, but also obviously with a clear, very clear ethical basis that is useful to society. We have made a great deal of effort to get a great deal of arrangement, we have given it all up, and we would like to have a large deal of arrangement and a large deal of arrangement in such matters again. But we are afraid that in this debate the opposite can be shown, that the Basque parties can be shown to the gulf, that there are reproaches, that memory and coexistence can be converted into a camp of party dispute, even though we always say that the opposite must be done. Today it is up to debate such complex things as the limits of freedom of expression, the delegitimization of violence, the reintegration of prisoners who have served their sentence, the right to dignity of the victims. But it's going to be discussed by mixing it all up, confusing terms, taking the part in the whole thing. In our opinion, that is somewhat inappropriate. They're going to allow me to explain our position in some detail. Firstly, and in relation to all these issues that I have mentioned right now, I believe that there is a key question, which is to empathize, to be able to take the place of the other, to be able to take care of the feelings of the opposite. We have to work with empathy, adopting the feeling of what is ahead of us. It's not a hard thing, it's easy if you want to. If you want to put yourself in the place of a victim, it's easy to get the idea of what you can live by seeing a tribute to people who have caused you profound harm. If we take the place of a victim, if we place ourselves in the place of the victim, it is very easy to know what they feel if a person who has done a great pain to him is given a homage. But for that it is necessary to want to put oneself in the place of the other and, unfortunately, in the Basque society of 2018, there are still those who do not want to do so. At the beginning of my speech I quoted a few words from Elespe. It is easy to understand the pain, suffering, anguish that victims feel and suffer when violence or belonging to a terrorist gang is exalted, it is an added pain, which is not fair. That suffering, that new victimization is not ethical. And this has to be said, this has to be put black on white, that we cannot avoid it, nor can we avoid positioning ourselves in front of it. That is why in the amendment we agreed on PNV, PSE and Elkarrekin we can accept that rejection. But while all this is true, it is also not possible to generalize. That it cannot be said that whenever a relative or relative welcomes a prisoner who has served his sentence is a tribute. And yes, we also need to put ourselves in the situation of that family and that person who has been deprived of liberty, who returns home having served his sentence. It is easy to understand that a mother or brother receives their family member. It is easy to understand that a mother, a brother-in-law, should receive and receive the wish of a brother who has been in prison. Perhaps, and I say perhaps, because it has not been agreed that such a reception should take place, it should not take place in a public sphere. Perhaps this humanly understandable reception should be carried out in another more discreet framework and with the social environment. To understand this, which can be controversial, is to understand that in our country the punishments of deprivation of liberty are aimed at resocialization and reintegration. For all this, in the amendment agreed between PNV, PSEE and Elkarrekin Podemos, it is specified that public tributes, which are made to a violent past and membership of a terrorist gang, are rejected, not in other cases. And this amendment also speaks of the delegitimization of violence, of memory, of reintegration, of the right of victims to truth, of justice, of reparation. It really is a good amendment. And let me put another question on the table. Can anyone explain what they bring to living together in Euskadi to pay public tribute to people who have caused profound harm? How can it be that in 2018 we have to continue to explain that all violence was wrong, that even today we have to ask for that minimum of empathy that I mentioned at the beginning? How can we still today have to keep going around with basic questions of human dignity? We need to rebuild coexistence in Euskadi. We need to rebuild it after decades of unjust and unwarranted violence and pain, and this kind of public homage not only does not add up, it remains to coexistence. We need to rebuild the partnership in Basque. After the decades of vice, this partnership must be rebuilt, full of pain which has been unjust and has no justification, and such homages, besides not adding public homages to this life, deprive us of it. I used to appeal to empathy, to put my heart into this debate. But you have to put your head on, too. Head not to fall into the trap debate, as a popular ex-director said in his day. We have already pointed out that not every act of welcoming a prisoner who has served his sentence is a tribute, nor are there only harmful tributes to the victims of ETA. I am not going to open this issue now, but I think it is clear that there are victims of many signs in this country, and they all have the same right to dignity, not just one. We will have a constructive opportunity in the future to raise this issue. And why does it take a head, a cold head? Because sincerely, that the day we came to remember the murder of Fernando Buesa, the ERTZAINA Jorge Díaz, in which we reminded Enrique Casas also at the beginning of this plenary session, I think it is not exactly upbuilding to have bronchos and harsh debates. Sometimes the best recognition of victims is to work for an agreement. And in this sense I would like to end – and not by chance – by expressly thanking the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party for their willingness to reach an agreement and I believe that making a thank you to other parties on a day like today brings more than many reproaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u81	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. EH Collector, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u82	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, good afternoon, good afternoon to all. We've all been reading and hearing a lot since Sunday. Big words, insults, lies... We've seen the play exaggerated. There's been a lot of noise. It has been attempted to use a low-dimensional event to achieve a great political income, as if it were not clear to fix one's position in some way. I want to make an important point to face this discussion. To understand these performances, it must be said that they are not homages, but welcomes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No one has applauded, no one's actions, no one's praise, much less his delicum. The question is much more simple: These events are merely an expression of the right which the prisoner has to return to his society, a practical exercise of the principle of society, avoiding the neglect and derogation of these persons. It is natural and natural that the neighbours should be satisfied in such a moment, and so express themselves, and what is normal and natural cannot be regarded as pain or suffering at all. I insist, the PP initiative deliberately confuses tribute and gnitorri. Neither Andoain, Donostia, Bilbo, nor Santurtzi have been honoured, there has been no recognition. They are mere expressions of welcome, to which relatives, friends, people who appreciate these people, people who have simply not been able to see them for many years, welcome a person within the village, a person who already comes with the completed sentence. It cannot be linked to acts of exaltation, glorification or apologia. That's another rank, and that rank today is not real. Moreover, I would say that these acts represent a sign of adherence to the new political time, entail a demand for a single and exclusively democratic path to the resolution. Resolution which, of course, also calls for a new prison policy. Acts of attachment to a new time without further human rights violations, and in which prisons are gradually being emptied. You, gentlemen of the PP, may prefer that prisoners who have fully served their sentence until the last day have an impossible fit in their society, in their people, in their surroundings. Let them be marginalized, frustrated, hopeless. Don't let them find any ribbons or roots. We don't want this to happen, we don't want it. Expressed, whether of sign or motive, without a horizon of social root, without a hope for the future, are the focus of other problems that I am sure no one wants. As I said, the welcome do not suppose the humiliation of the victims. We add that all victims have the right to receive attention and attention. We defend this, and we must plainly say that welcome does not break those rights. First, because there is no will or intention to do so. Nobody wants to insult the victims. No one wants to increase their suffering. Secondly, because it cannot be interpreted, that the symbols, slogans, and interventions, are either hatred, revenge, or messages for violence. Thirdly, because such events would accidentally happen, if the Phocians were not placed upon them, as has been done at this time. The political sobression of these events produces more gravity and suffering in the victims. It's irresponsible to play that way with the idea of making a lousy political profit. I understand that they don't like the acts of reception, the ongitorris, I understand that the lehendakari bothers him. But this cannot lead us to reject something that is not happening. Because I say again, in them there are no tributes, nothing is exalted. And it's not that I say it, I read you a very recent argument from the National Court of 6 February to absolve a young man from Barakaldo of the crime of exaltation: "His conduct does not pose any risk, given the long time that has passed since ETA ceased its armed activity." The National Court does not consider a crime of exaltation, and I quote: "Because of the non-existent context of violence related to ETA". There's no case. The National Court applying the principle of reality, there is no risk. Mr. Semper tells us that Covite has detected 70 cases. Indeed, 8 complaints have been filed with the National Court, and the judges are systematically filing these complaints submitted by Covite, to the extent that their government delegate, Mr. De Andrés, has dared to ask the President of the National Court and the Lieutenant Prosecutor of the National Court for explanations, a model of respect for judicial independence. And, who was going to say it, the National High Court once hammered heretics, whipped by terrorists, now assumes that we are faced with another different reality. And it is you, gentlemen of the PP, who want to go further, even further than the National Audience. Because its strategy of the worst, the better, needs to promote judicial proceedings, arrests, judicial dispositions and perhaps new imprisonments of those involved in these acts. They want to throw more wood into the fire, they want to generate more suffering. At a time when a social majority is looking for a way to empty prisons and who is also happy when this happens, you propose that they be filled again. But it doesn't seem to work out for them. And that's why today you have to dress the toga to do what the National Court doesn't do. And that is precisely why we consider this initiative to be serious, because it has nothing to do with political criticism, facts that they do not like, but with safeguarding the honour of the victims. His initiative is based on the frustration of verifying that he slows down his political strategy of putting more obstacles to a new time of political normality. There is no case, says the National Court, but it is that there is not even a case in Andoain and Mr Erkoreka has said it with meridian clarity, there will be no report from the Ertzaintza, because there are no acts of tribute on which this attestation can be written. And I believe that the first point of the compromise amendment that they bring us today, which I reject to tributes that are not such, is profoundly contradictory to this reality that is drawing again, the National Audience and the Ertzaintza. Rebate what the judges say and rebate what Ertzaintza herself says. Where Ertzaintza sees nothing, you see tributes. Where judges see nothing, you see humiliation to the victims. Today the PP wants to get here what it seems he does not get in the courts and, unfortunately I have to say, the PNV, and PSOE and Podemos have borrowed to this game, and that is why we will not support it. The end of PP was to cast the power of memory and co-existence out of the outside, the consent and will to agreement we are building in it. That's why we had a deal with PNV, PSE and EH Collect. When PP introduced this other illegal proposal, we agreed to protect PNV and PSE's correction. We accepted our terms without them, but it seemed proper for us to obtain a vast protection. We wanted to spell out the work we're doing, because that was the main value we should take care of. But Podemos has brought in the censure of homages, which I think are the terms of PP, in some measure admit of the concept of PP's frame, and you are all involved in PP's game. We won't do that and we'll abstain from it. And I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, because we've allowed him to condition the position and work of the teams we're in the PPri pony. We've given PPri an ability to create interference in power. I do not doubt that PP will take advantage of it, and that it will bring more activity in the case of those who have worked discreet in this plentitude to draw contradictions into which we intend to work efficiently in ponciency to destroy our good intentions. PP's initiative starts from differences, and I really feel sorry for the picture today. Our hand is stretched out, the work that the ponciency of doing the way agreements and agreements must perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u84	Thank you, President. Well, I have to admit that I find it quite surprising to have heard Mr. Arzuaga throw loas at the National High Court, I would never have believed it, it seems rather curious. But in any case, in the reply I will enter a little into some of the arguments that you made, because perhaps if you consider that these kinds of acts are neither tributes nor receptions, you would have to wonder what you would do or what this society would do if there were similar acts when a rapist comes home and is greeted with applause, with receptions and corridors from the family. It would probably create a bad feeling. If, as you say, you do not consider this tribute, you should not have had more inconvenience in rejecting what they might be, because not everyone has been as clean and white as you propose. We, in any case, by marking the position, have – and it is nothing new – a firm commitment to achieve a coexistence based on the truth, on the recognition of the victims, on the full delegitimization of the reasons that were used to assassinate, threaten, harass, extort or persecute anyone, and that expressly excludes consenting, contemporating, allowing or excusing not a single act of exaltation of those who exercised that terror. And, therefore, expressly exclude any act that humiliates the victims, which applauds those who perpetuated for half a century the extent of fear or the annihilation of the adversary. And that means, or should mean, an active and nuanced involvement on the part of all the public authorities, of all, in the face of any action that will again harm the victims, in the wake of the immense pain that has occurred to them before. It also means that when convicted persons serve their sentences they must be released from prison, being aware of the harm done unjustly and uselessly. We too advocate the social reintegration of these people. And that means working with all the legal instruments within our reach to ensure that no criminal who has served his sentence, not only does not boast of what has been perpetrated, but is aware that he is not worthy of any tribute, of any recognition. And that would be a job well done. Let him know that having stripped other people of the human condition to turn them into goals to eliminate only managed to sow tragedies, reap lives, condemn their own youth and the lives of their own family members. Let them know clearly that the Euskadi that they left behind their crimes is precisely, fortunately, the opposite of what they caused so much suffering to so many people. That in the place with which they meet, men and women decide in full freedom who they vote, who they want to live with, in which language they speak or how they want to feel, quite the opposite of the draft ETA. And the Socialists know that this which I have just said is fully shared by the proposing group, the People's Party, I know that it shares it in Euskadi, I know that it shares it in Navarre, where this initiative was, by the way, generated, but obvious that what brings us to debate here did not support it in the Foral Community, where they did not even propose the involvement of all the security forces, but I do not want to enter into those debates. I think they're secondary right now. I believe that this is an opportunity to remember the tenacity and dignity of those who faced those who killed them, the tenacity and dignity of those who today face those who want to go over the page forgetting the horror. And I would also like to take this opportunity to invite the People's Party again to add its voice to those who in the speech of memory have committed ourselves without half ink to making a true account of what happened in this country, because the truth is that there were Basque citizens who decided to organize themselves to murder other citizens, Basques or other places in Spain, because they considered them enemies. There were also Basque citizens and other places in Spain who responded to this aggression since illegality, considering the first enemies deprived of human rights and dignity. And there were Basque and Spanish citizens, the vast majority, who lived away from that reality, who knew it only by the newspapers, by the front pages of the newspapers. And a few fought silently to denounce every violation on the streets. And there were also Basque citizens who went into exile and several thousand more who resisted harassment, the threat to the physical integrity and security of their families, and thanks to that resistance, along with police and judicial work, made it possible for Euskadi today to be what it is, a place where any idea and any project can be defended. However, there are Basque citizens who must serve their sentence for the crimes they committed and who have yet to assume that they should never have committed them, and that is one of the major outstanding issues. All these are truths that can be seen, it is the very existence of ETA that is hilarious. Just beg Mr. Martinez. You used a few words from our partner Elespe. I would recommend you, I would ask you not to use them; Josu Elespe appeared in the presentation discreetly and confidentially, so much so that he did not want to make statements, and I do not think it will please you to use his words in the rostrum. Respect your decision. Well, before these truths, the Socialists reiterate that not a single human rights violation has had a single justification, nor can it give any explanation to understand that there has been a political conflict in Euskadi that has ever justified these things. Democracy exists because there are different ways of understanding a country and annihilation of what you think is not acceptable. And, therefore, we reject any attempt to amnesia in the face of any of the rights violations that ETA has caused or that have occurred with the existence of terrorism. And along with this statement of principles, where we consider the victims at the centre of our considerations, and we take into account the different views that they transfer to us, we want to work to prevent the repetition of acts that can humiliate the victims. Because all the victims expect the killers to recognize that there was never a reason to explain the damage that was done to them, taking care of them all, not one another, all of them. That is our last goal, the goal of a new prison policy; we also talk about prison policy, a policy that allows prisoners to recognize the damage caused, which is the path that facilitates the social reintegration provided for in the Constitution. Because until recently, with some exceptions, precisely promoted by another prison policy, within the existing legal framework, the majority of ETA prisoners renounced the measures allowed by the Prison Law. And he said that except for exceptions, because when two socialist governments coincided, one in Euskadi and one in Spain, the Way Nanclares was propitiated, which opened the door to those who wanted to disengage from the terrorist gang. Those who did so were accused of traitors, but the truth is that ETA ended up desisting from terrorist activity; now it even seems to be announced that they will decree their final end. And their prisoners now begin to assume that they will not get the amnesty that some have promised them, nor the shortening of their sentences. The prisoners bet on benefiting from the legislation they once despised, the individualization they rejected and even the rapprochement with the victims, which is very good, among other things, because those who previously justified them have already assumed legality and actively participate in all the institutions, which I sincerely congratulate myself on. But this step, let me tell you, cannot cause the victims to be unloaded of the solution to their problems. Victims are not obliged to accept forgiveness or late recognition of such harm. The responsibility for their future lies in themselves, in the prisoners themselves, who have to face an uncomfortable reality; there will be no way out for them outside the rule of law, in which no crack has been opened to defeat terrorism either. For this reason, it seems important to us to explore the way to comply with the law in order to seek that those who have committed the crime and the attack will be reunited with that society by assuming their error. That's why we refuse to allow them to be thrown out of jail, applauded, honored, because believe me, the victims feel doubly victimized. That is why we believe that legality allows for a flexible prison policy that responds to reality, both in the evolution of prisoners and in the end of ETA itself, and social evolution. And on this very special day for us, such as that of Fernando Buesa's anniversary, let me quote some reflection that my predecessor as a spokesman in this House did here, referring to certain strategies of alliances only between nationalists, excluding another part of society. Fernando wondered: "Have you improved things with it? Have you achieved less violence on the streets? Have they succeeded in ensuring that those who politically do not identify at all with nationalism have more peace, more security, more freedom?". And today, 18 years later in this rostrum and representing the same political group and so many murdered socialists, we can say that fortunately we have managed to overcome sectarianism, regain understanding among different people and overcome terror. And I can only say that this gives us immense pride and, above all, we remember much more of those so unjustly murdered and those who have taken the witness, we are committed to ensuring that there is never a single reason, not a single accompaniment, not a single applause for having eliminated anyone by thinking differently. And that our commitment, and I hope that all of you, too, is to get everyone here to be able to say that there was never before and that there can be no later reason to justify it. I am glad to have seen you today, as last year, in Fernando's floral offering, seems to me a positive sign and we pick it up with satisfaction, but I think they still have to pass the Rubicon and get to the other side. I believe that we can do so too, I agree with you, through the paper of memory and we also maintain the commitment that this can be done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u86	Mrs. President, Mr. President, Congressman, all good afternoons. To the memory of Fernando Buesa and Jorge Diez today, and to the memory of José Angelo Santos and Josu Leonet, I shall say plainly: The Jestric Party of the South highly rejects that which may be offensive to any enterprise or to the victims of action, and brings back to dotimation. It's been like this in the past. We want to do exactly the same thing tonight. I've used the same words that the president used on Monday to avoid any doubt, though there's no reason for doubt. I could finish my talk with these phrases, if we were looking for a simple expression. But the theme of violence and victims is not simple, but profound. And it deserves a deeper thought. That's why the middle-class correction that we've signed and represented makes it longer. He rejects in a clear manner any action which is done to receive a homage, whether it be a member or a member of the former place, or a justification of violence; and in the following points the institutions determine our duties for the victims. In this matter, society and public power have precise commitments; that the confession, observation, and justice of the victims of human rights are expressed for this purpose. by abolishing the injuries that have been received, or the most dangerous influences, and taking measures to avoid humiliation, and revolt. His duties are clear, indispensable, and invincible. But I will make it plain: memory is not only right, but it is more. This law declared with a vast majority when it is called the ethical ground. It's a basic tool for the ethical, social and political desertion of terrorism. And when I say terrorism, we can say any violence, or the watering of human rights, and we say so. This is precisely the principle which we maintain in this half-rational correction presented to us. As we established it in the ethical land, we claim to proclaim the truth of all the victims, the rights to justice and attention, and to continue working for the growth of those rights. As we then thought, we still believe that it is absolutely necessary for conversation and agreement to protect space. Memory and co-existence is the best field for all statements used to raise terrorism and violence, so that we can agree to the measures of extinction of initiative and symbolgy, and the right to always be distinctly united by respecting the freedom and freedom of speech. Lastly, to the construction of life, it is necessary to consider the principle of socializing the prisoner, and this principle is equally valid when he is serving the punishment. And considering the political prison prison that is now in use, it's good to remind you of this principle and to put it in value. But people who are in prison or have been in prison have also duties, no matter what. They have to take a critical examination about the impact and responsibility. And if they don't, it won't be difficult to re-enjoy real society. This is what we owe to victims and to the whole euscal society, and we will not yield to it. Homageing, exalting or publicly exhibiting for those purposes to persons who have been members of ETA, or who used or justified violence as a means of achieving political ends, is absolutely repugnant and shameful to any decent society. I'm telling you very clearly. To try to present as an example citizens who pointed to their neighbour for others to kill him is a moral lowness, but, in addition, these attitudes humiliate the victims and increase their suffering and therefore subject them to a new victimization that they do not deserve at all. It is therefore an obligation and a commitment for all public authorities, for all political parties, to work to ensure that events of this nature do not occur. And most importantly, to promote a culture of human rights for all, to ensure that such events are not repeated again. But with the same clarity we must remember that not all reprehensible conduct constitutes a crime. Criminal law is the last ratio of law. It is reserved to pursue and punish the most reprehensible acts of a democratic society, and must be applied under the principle of legality, requiring clear, tax-free and non-extensive types. It is therefore not acceptable to extend criminal types of limits as subjective as the heightening of terrorism in order to exceed any reasonable limits. It is not a matter of receiving to force interpretation and to pretend to turn into the exaltation of terrorism any conduct that provokes us rejection; it is not a matter of receiving because in the end fundamental rights such as that of expression or assembly, rights – which I say clearly – are and must be the subject of special protection by the State and which, unfortunately, these last few days – and I say this with sadness – are being questioned by judges and courts, or by cultural managers. Therefore, our approach is to deal with this issue in terms of public ethics and democratic morals, rather than resorting to imposing illegalities or restrictions on the rights of expression and assembly. Because such acts that humiliate victims may or may not be criminally reprimanded depending on the circumstances. What is unquestionable, however, is that they are reprehensible from civic and political ethics. There is no doubt that decent people are ashamed, I say quite clearly, it is difficult to build democratic coexistence with someone who believes that such facts are normal or even defendable; but even if they are, we will continue to try, we will continue to insist and we will continue to work on it. Because our obligation is to build coexistence, not make it more difficult. Our obligation is to extend the culture of human rights by educating, persuading, forming, not prohibiting and restricting. Our obligation is to make it easier for those who have a critical reflection of the past and a recognition of the unjust damage caused, to step in and do so, not to make it difficult. Our obligation is to speak more and shout less. Our obligation is to use longer lights more in search of the common good and less short or intermittent lights of tactical interest. Our obligation is to make democratic demands, to defend ethical principles firmly, to sit at a table and to talk and to dialogue and to agree; and that table – I say this clearly – is also called a presentation of memory and coexistence today and its doors remain open for all groups in this House to participate in that work. I'm done. I recognize that I can come to understand and understand, that the relatives and friends of someone who has been imprisoned, has served their sentence and returns home rejoice for it. I can understand that they welcome you with open arms and strive to facilitate your reintegration into normal life, the latter is also an obligation of the public authorities. But I cannot understand, let alone share, what is done with public display. I cannot understand and share that they intend to publicly display their image and past as a value or an example before society. I cannot understand the intention of moving the idea that what was done was right or justified. We want to tell those people clearly that the road they must go is just the opposite, and for the sake of coexistence in this country, it is a road we want and we must facilitate them to go and we are committed to facilitating them to go, but better before and after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u87	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers to the popular Basque Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u88	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr Arzuaga, I recalled the right of those who have been deprived of their liberty to return to their social environment, those who have served prison sentences for committing crimes, in this case of terrorism, and which is natural, I quote literally, "that it is normal and natural for family members and friends to be happy". Of course, obviously, it is logical that the son who has not been with his father for certain years, because he has been convicted of killing another person, wants to see his father, and is happy when he comes back. And it is normal for your nearest environment to want to give you a hug, be very satisfied and happy about the return. This is logical and human, but this is not what is in question, Mr Arzuaga, it is not in question the feeling of a being close to someone who has served a custodial sentence, about each one's feelings, obviously, no one is who to get in. But it is about the behaviour in the public space that belongs to us all, and on which this Parliament, about its use and about the externalisation of certain manifestations, can politically manifest itself. This is the difference, Mr. Arzuaga. Because I used to ask him, why he doesn't pay homage and that way he doesn't receive someone who has rejected and someone who has refused ETA. And I'm not going to name names, because in recent years fortunately, we have several cases. Why aren't they welcomed into their surroundings? Is it that your family aren't happy? Is it that Carmen Gisasola, her family aren't happy to have her home again? Doesn't Iñaki Rekarte have a happy family? Don't you have any friends? It's just, doesn't Txelis have an environment too? Have we seen any form of manifestation, of receiving these repentant or traitors, according to a certain discourse? Of course, sit down with traitors, it's the dynamics in which they live. What they have to internalize, what I think is fundamental that they internalize, is that we cannot tolerate as a democratic society that wants to face a better future and build it in a way that is remarkably superior and better than our past, that whoever has committed crimes is greeted with applause in public space. Because it is true that it represents a revictimization for the victims of terrorism, obviously. If my father is killed by me, and whoever killed him I see applauding him in the village square, obviously and this enters into the head of anyone, that is revictimizing and insufferable and unbearable pain. Because if not, when it comes to recognizing the damage caused, what are we talking about, mere rhetoric? When, from the left abertzale or from the world of the ETA environment, after supposedly deep reflections, they say, no, we are willing to recognize the damage caused. And to the first change, when they get out of jail and have the opportunity to return home discreetly, ostentation, applause, ikurriñas and aurresku. Is that recognition of the real damage done? And you want us to believe, which is sincere recognition? No, no, Because the facts do not correspond to verbalization, nor to what you say politically. The facts do not correspond. That was the big leap they have to make, among other things. With regard to the appeal to the presence and participation of the People's Party in the presentation of memory and coexistence, I would like to begin by reminding them that we are already participating. At the first moment of that presentation, we were. When there was an ethical soil, when we had clear three or four fundamental things, through which we could talk about others, or from which we could build other kinds of consensus. But that ethical soil jumped through the air to incorporate EH Bildu. Because the important thing was not to reaffirm ourselves in our ethical and political positions, those that we defended also at the time when ETA gave and gave good and killed; but the important thing was to jump through the air to bring these gentlemen. And believe me, I say it to you and we say it to you without any partisan desire, but we say it to you from the depths of our conviction, for five years in a presentation of memory and coexistence, five. Could you tell us a conclusion, a resolution, that speaks of memory and coexistence and peace? One! In five years they've been able to evacuate from that paper? One! It is that they have not even been able to agree that receiving in the public space whom he murdered, with applause and aurreskus, has no acceptance. And the question I want to ask you today, which we want to share with the rest of the political formations that participate so actively and so interested in this presentation of memory and coexistence, on this subject, now what? For getting to know the mechanics a little bit. I mean, you tell us and today we are going to vote mostly that we reject these kinds of tributes and receptions, except EH Bildu, but all are present in the presentation of memory and coexistence. Now how's this going, by the vote?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u89	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u90	I finish, that is, now, EH Bildu, what will you do, will you join the rejection because mostly the presentation are against the reception to whom you have committed such atrocities? How does this work? What is virtuality? What is the usefulness for the memory and coexistence of this paper, if they have not even been able to agree within themselves what we will agree today by voting? Voting. In public. Because Mr Martínez, if indignity, if reception is public, the debate also has to be public.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u92	I in the first intervention of the group have tried to explain the ethical and human background of what is being discussed today, because I understand that basically, moreover, what is in question are issues relating to ethics and respect. I explain this because, speaking of the proposals we have received here, we do not consider that this is resolved either with the Criminal Code or with the police, they are resolved with dialogue. With a dialogue that is more discreet than public, with a dialogue that seeks to be agreements and not reproaches. Neither the Criminal Code nor the police are going to convince anyone of the need for respect and empathy. Nor are they going to convince anyone that killing is bad today and was bad always, something that is very logical. Similarly, it does not make sense to use the Criminal Code to make it difficult for those who have caused serious harm to the victims in Euskadi to be able to reintegrate. What is the best place for that dialogue? And I reaffirm myself here: the best place for such a dialogue is indeed the paper of memory, it is that space in which the majority of the political groups in this Parliament are represented, and in which we are putting forward long-term work. Because, as we have already said almost all the representatives of the political groups in today's speeches, this is a complex, deep and substantive debate. Since no solutions are provided, it is not denying the greatest of the tributes, but not going out with posters in the midst of them. And these days we in Euskadi have gone back 20 years. The confrontation and lack of empathy and lack of respect for the victims took over the streets for a moment and has been sad. It did not bring much to the victims, to the coexistence, or to the resocialization of the people who have served their sentence what we have experienced these days. It may sometimes be good to see and relive the mistakes of the past, to value the present that we have managed to open among all and among all. But above all to have more determination of which future, which one we want for our land: one of peace with memory, with democratic coexistence and with delegitimization of all violence. And I, and our group Elkarrekin Podemos, do believe that the way to build this future is through, to a large extent, the presentation of memory and coexistence. Nor can I understand some of the things that you have said to me or that you have insinuated to me, Mr Arzuaga. I believe that if we explained the exchange of proposals, texts, conversations and messages that have taken place throughout this week, some would probably have a more uncomfortable position even if it were possible. Because another agreement could have been reached, a broader agreement could have been reached, even an agreement that would differ in respect of hospitality, tribute and hospitality of family members. But you didn't want it and you'll know why you didn't want it. I mean, I'd like to if you could come here and tell me that we haven't tried until the end, that the deal is as broad as possible. Fortunately, I would like to reiterate my thanks to the PNV and the Socialist Party, because I believe that we have achieved a very good and very relevant amendment. But let us not say either that there have been no attempts to reach a broader agreement. Honestly, I believe that the problem here is yours, and that you should work it out with your people. I closed, as I said before, by thanking the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party for the effort to agree on a compromise that would allow us to leave this debate with agreements and not just with cross-representations between political parties. And I hope that on the following occasions we will succeed in reaching broader agreements. For Elkarrekin We can facilitate agreements in peace and coexistence is something really important, we believe and want this country above all else, and we want it with a present and a future of peace, coexistence and human rights. I therefore reiterate my thanks to the parties that have agreed. I repeat that I believe that the amendment we agreed on in Elkarrekin is good. We can and have no objection to voting on points, if this facilitates a broad agreement in any sense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u93	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Collect EH, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, for a quick answer, you brought an initiative in terms of rejection of the tributes that were perfectly attached to the PSE, you brought your text for a decantation, and I think it makes sense for the PSE to embrace it. You brought the Nafarroa initiative and knew what the result of the Nafarroa initiative was. That is to say, we join the abstention. And it seems to me good, because it is a political position, and it is a legitimate political position, but to me what is not worth saying is, then, that you come to facilitate, that you come to favour broad agreements. You have decided that agreement, and that agreement ends up entering the PP, because we couldn't enter. Mr. Pastor, I want to tell you that I really understand that you do not like these acts, but I also want to tell you that there is no boasting, that there is no homage, that there is no exaltation, that there is no recognition. It is your assessment, but I want to tell you that it does not correspond to reality, and see how far you go with this assessment, with this interpretation, which I even have to appeal, I have to invoke some decisions of the National Court to say that there is no case. And I will give it again, this time before another reality that has not emerged in the debate. And it is in reality, not of reception, but of farewell, in this case to a dead prisoner. And the National Audience says: "There was no projection of images of terrorist actions, nor were there any speakers who made any speeches in support of the armed struggle," he points out, "nor the aurresku, nor the Eusko Gudariak are a call to violence." The question is, can a person be fired in these terms? Or are we not going to be able to do that either? A quick mention to Mr Iturrate, because I say again, I understand that you do not like these initiatives, but what I want to ask you is concrete, because you have not said it, whether you believe that in Andoain there was a tribute or not, because I believe that clearly Mr Erkoreka is saying that there was no. There are no factual elements for there to be a police attestation to that position, and I want to listen to you, and see that I am pleased that you bring the proposal for the extensive, expansive, abusive use of the crime of exaltation, something that is included in the Zuzenbidean plan, which also calls for its abolition. And it is also true that we are seeing in the National Court how the use of this criminal type is being exacerbated, but, incidentally, not to face the cases, the facts, the acts, which we are debating today. Neither the judges nor the Ertzaintza say that there have been acts of recognition, exaltation or homage. And I'd like to ask you for some clarity on that. Mr Semper, you give great dimension to these acts, it bothers you that they are done on the street, on the public street. You come to say in a way that the street is everyone's, also those who may want to do these acts of ungitorri, but it seems that what really bothers you is that there are a lot of people, that are crowds, that participate. And perhaps I would call upon you to make a vision of whether the prison policy you are using does not have a certain so-called effect or a certain catalysing element when people approach these initiatives. That is, a policy of revenge, a cruel policy, a policy based on the incommunicado of the detained person, on his absolute separation from social relations, on the diversification of any kind of contact with his people, with his family, with... Perhaps this does not exert an interest in many people towards the person who goes out of prison, to get close, to have a certain empathy for him? Perhaps changing that prison policy would not bring another kind of reaction in this area too? Think about it, because I think it is this prison policy that is having a direct impact on how these initiatives are happening. You have no problem with tributes, it is true, you perpetrators of serious human rights violations of your responsibility have no problem with tributes, because these people have not stepped into jail for a minute. These people have been pardoned, these people have been promoted, these people have been decorated and, precisely for this reason, I say that this also has an impact on the victims, how not, in their feeling, on their dignity: insults and humiliates the victims. And for that reason, I believe that you have no legitimacy to give lessons in recognition and reparation to the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialist, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u96	Yes, briefly. Mr Arzuaga, you have again used the National Court as an argument of authority, but I think you are mistaken in the analysis. None of us who have signed this amendment are talking about that tribute from a criminal point of view, none of them. We are talking about this from the point of view of the dignity of the victims and of ethics, and of healthy and democratic behaviour, not from the point of view of criminalization, which you may be right. And we do not speak in the amendment of crimes or the Penal Code, we are talking about ethics, human behavior, dignity of the victims. I understand that you also want to enter that debate and we are doing so in the victims' presentation, so I think that you still, unfortunately, have some ties that, as I told you before, prevents you from crossing the Rubicon. And I understand the internal problems that you may have, and I hope that when that debate that was announced today about the final end of ETA is decidedly decided, it will also serve to unravel many other things, I really want it. Because, as I said before, if you consider that the welcome acts that are being made are not tributes, I don't know why you have reservations about condemning the tribute acts that may occur. I wouldn't have to have any. It identifies you with what you are doing or propitiating, and forget about the subject of the Audience, that we are not talking from a criminal point of view. Mr Iturrate has told you, Mr Martínez has told you, we are talking about ethics, about something that we are talking about a lot in the paper of memory and I take the opportunity to say to Mr Semper, it is not five years that the paper of memory is in force, it is in this legislature, because the one you refer to on the ethical floor was two years ago. It was two years ago, when these gentlemen were not in this House, by the way, it was there. And in any case, there is a very simple way for you to know how the memory presentation works, you have the doors open, between you, and you will understand and know how the memory presentation works. It's better than listening, firsthand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u98	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. Mr Semper, on these issues, the debate has been quite reasonable, and on the subject of the presentation and your last speech, I think that on these issues it would be good less action, and sometimes even overaction, and more sincerity when it comes to dealing with matters. Because no one has broken the ethical ground and you, even though you have repeated it here today, know it. Moreover, I was the one who brought the ethical ground to this debate in my first speech, and we have done so whenever we refer to the presentation of memory and coexistence. The problem is that you still have something to clarify in this Parliament and in this society, and that is why these ladies and gentlemen are unable to sit down at a table to talk, to talk about coexistence, about memory in this country and to try to build it in all of them, and yet they are perfectly skilled and perfectly legitimate to negotiate, agree with them, even violating the Rules of Procedure, so as not to lose a vote, the number of troops that the Ertzaintza has to have. And you see that it is a matter of vital importance to you and to them, and you have no objection, I insist, to agreeing on the number of troops that Ertzaintza must have in Araba, even by forcing the Rules of Procedure, so that in the absence of a Member of Parliament you will not lose the vote. A little more sincerity, a little less overacting, a little less posture. When we talk about preserving spaces for dialogue and protecting them, we are not talking about secrecy. Mr. Pastor told you, the doors are open and, moreover, it is not postureum. It is that when we say that we invite you, that it is good and that it is necessary for you to be in the paper, we say it because we think that it is so, because we sincerely believe that it is so, because your positions have to be put on the table and you have to count on the adoption of agreements. Because we don't talk about secrecy, we talk about preserving spaces for construction. We do not talk about having spaces to throw away words, which for that are already the media and this plenary, on many occasions. We are to use the words to build, because what we think needs to be done is work more from the institutions and from the construction, and less from the banner. Mr Arzuaga, I have already answered the question. I believe that your question has been rhetorical, because all my first intervention, or a very important part of my first intervention, has come to answer that question, precisely. No, no, I agree with Mr Erkoreka. I'm not saying what happened the other day in Andoain was a crime. But what I do say is that it produces a profound public shame. It causes me great democratic shame. What I am saying is that these facts are absolutely rejectable from public ethics and I would like you to join in that reflection. And I don't want to use it, because sometimes according to the tone that is used that argument seems to be being criticized, but to me it seems to me that it is quite graphic. This was said by Mr Pastor in his first speech. Would it be reasonable for you, the parliamentarians of EH Bildu, to organize an oingitorri for an abuser or a sexual abuser, a rapist? No matter how much he has served his sentence, no matter how much he has parents, sisters, friends, neighbors in the village, who have not seen him for many years, because he has been in prison serving his sentence for rape, and that he is received without weight, without value for his criminal act, but simply as a public act of recognition and welcome. Do you think so? No, no, They wouldn't like it and they'd scream in the sky. And they'd do it right. And I'd be by his side doing the same thing and keeping the same position. Why? Why that is not acceptable in the case of those who have pointed to a person, to a neighbor, to a person who lives next to him, to someone who has shared with him streets, probably ikastola, school, shops, bars, etc., pointing to him for another to come and kill him. Is that reasonable from the point of view of ethics and democratic morality? I don't think so, and I hope you guys can say it with us someday, too. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u99	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote, to the vote. Yes, Mr. Sémper?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u100	Yes, Madam President. In order to ask for the vote on points in the amendment that the groups have had, specifically with which the first and the other points can be voted separately, we will be satisfied, and also to ask for the vote on points in the non-legislative proposal from the People's Party. Let's start by voting on our non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u101	No, no, Only if asked by others can one vote for points. You can make an offer if someone wants to, but if the popular party's sense of vote is the same at all points we can't go for points, unless someone wants to vote for points. Then what we're going to vote for will be the original text of our proposition as a Basque Potula. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary,66; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u102	So it's not accepted. We will next vote for Podemos, Euskal Sociialists, and the Middle Amendmental Amendment that has been signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 57; the contrary is 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u103	So the first point is accepted. Next, we'll vote for two, three, four, five, and sixth points. We can vote.(stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 48; the contrary, 0; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-22.u104	So the rest of the points have been accepted. Then I'll read an institutional statement. The institutional representation of Minority SafePack's initiative. "The activity of the European population is an instrument of direct democracy, founded by the European Union in 2012. If at least more than one million citizens of the seven States of the European Union support an enterprise suggested by a group of citizens, the European Committee ought to direct this proposal. "The initiative of the Minority SafePack is a collection of proposals to protect the national minority. A set of regulations for the Union in Europe which encourages the rights and the language of minority, and enables them to protect their culture. In short, the protection of the lowest, and the law addressed to them. "The Citizens' Initiative Minority SafePack encourages the European Commission to fulfil its mandate when it adopted the so-called Alfonsi report by more than 600 votes to protect the languages and culture of European minorities. That report, and by broad consensus, stressed the need for binding European legislation, which converts such protection into facts, values and rights recognized in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is now a question of insisting on this idea using the European citizens' initiative route. "The motto of the European Union is In Variety Concordia, unity in diversity. The purpose of the Minority SafePack initiative is to encourage the European Union to comply with its motto and to improve the protection of persons belonging to national and linguistic minorities and to strengthen cultural and linguistic diversity in the Union. "In the past, the European Union has ignored these requests on too many occasions and has allowed minority affairs to be considered at the state level or by other international organisations. "The U.S. of Europe unites with the popular Minority SafePack and the citizen wants to encourage them to protect him with his signature. From the same activity of this nation, the Eustacious legislator wishes that the European Union should take its responsibility, and that it should become the real agent of manifold culture and language throughout Europe. "So that the American laws of the Basque Union may be respected by the States of the European Union as well as by the States of the Union, in order to demand the criteria of the protection of the minority." So since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-seven.
