ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. Please, everyone, take your seats. Welcome to the legislature, all of you. We're going to argue. Single point in theme list: "The general discussion of politics, of June 30th, 193rd June, 193th, 193rd of the parliamental Rule." 195 of the Parliament's Rule. the thread of the article will begin in conversation with the President's speech. Once the announcement has been finished, the meeting will be interrupted until two-thirty in the afternoon, as the sheriff's commission has decided. So, in the name of funk, you're the President of New York.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u1	Good morning. Ma'am, members of the law, chief officers, rulers of the people, representatives of the people, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. The first two years of this legislation have passed, and we have two before us; therefore we are in the midst of legislation. Today, I will make use of the opportunity to examine the road and show the direction of the period we have left. Two years ago, we were protected by an important delegation of Esscal society. Then we renewed our engagement to make a truce for the Basques. We started on our way with optimism and illusions, and from the beginning we invited this member of the law to work together. We know, we know that to be a part of all the risks that this time brings us, and that help is indispensable. We've been working together ever since and our model is "auzolan." We're the government that's been stepping forward ever since. It's been two years and I'll announce today's level of commitments that's been made on by the Basque Munch, and I'll show you the changes in our hands and the challenges that are still in front of us. He's doing a good-humoured, honest-sounding government program. It's starting to help economic growth and functional support, including the program for strengthening human development and social integration. I don't want to talk about the next two years. I want to reflect on the future of Euskadi by talking about commitments taken in 2030th Agenda. We're in a state of change. The changes that are really profound and rapid are remodeling our lives. Our answers to our questions are changing so far. Times of change bring uncertainty; rather, intercourse of solidarity, and mutual confidence. This, too, may be the time to ask ourselves new questions, the mood to make use of new possibilities. Let's answer the new questions together, let's go on for progress. Let us assure ourselves of the positive consequences which this age has drawn: an engagement to equality between women and men, an example of transparency and good government, a choice of peace and a new communion. At the same time let us strengthen the foundations of our society; human development, social integration, equality and social services. With this we must consider our strength, and also our weaknesses; The young men, our masters, the needs of families, the professionals who are forced out of the Basque way, the unemployed in the most difficult situations. We have to open our view to the wide world. More and more. Globation brings us closer to the other continents. The international training process of Euscala and other operators has increased and has to be expanded more. Globalization has at the same time revealed the dependence of states, as well as the challenges of the world. It has been a permanent development and must continue to be the axis of our industry, service, transport, agriculture, and general economic model. To protect environment, to resist poverty, and to defend all human rights, is the responsibility to take upon us as a universal citizen. We're open to the world, but we live in Europe, and we're in European Union, especially, paying attention. He wants to go on with the Red Munche Integration. Euskaki wants to have his own word in the European Union. We're just trying to keep putting our targets together, and we're trying to cooperate. This is our current stage, and it's moving on to Basque. He's reconverting our industry, investing in jobs, innovation, digitalization. He's reducing the school-stipping rate. We're working to get the young men to have their first experience of work. We are fulfilling commitments to environment, transparency, public debt. We're fostering hope of life, eusca or equality. We're investing for our partnership. We are a small people, and the support and participation of these challenges are indispensable. The neighbourhood is the way we work; our purpose is to continue the way of agreement. We started our journey with honesty, efficiency, and illusions, and I confirm these engagements to-day in the middle of this road. Today's speech will be divided into three parts: In the first part I shall present a general view of the present situation, and in the second I shall report what I have done, and in the third I will explain the answers to the future roots. General view of the present state. I shall begin this view amongst the nations, where the dispute has increased in three countries: in economics, in multilateralism and migrations. The economic and social process has been strengthened. The markets, which have been open for our enpresies, have been confined to commerce by barriers and obstacles. This problem principally affects certain sectors, and the European Union ought to give an answer. The rules of free commerce are changing, and we must act with each other, knowing that the future is in the open market-place. He's doubting Multilatelism. It is so apparent that international institutions do not protect it or question important continental institutions, such as the agreement against climate change. Migrations are creating social detection. I'm talking about closing boundaries in front of the emigration drama. It's not just a European issue, it's not just a crisis in Syria. On the contrary, it is a subject which affects the whole world, and therefore Europe must react and establish a common policy. For what is happening in the past five years is unacceptable. Euskaki says he's ready to take responsibility. We did it from the beginning. We had signed an institutional expression for this purpose, we had the experience of human corridors and platforms, we had a positive response to the crisis of the "Aquarius," and, on the same point, we confirm the commitment to the emigrants to receive them. We are convinced that this subject ought to be answered in a consistent manner. So we have told the President of the European Committee and the President of the European Districts. In this overview of the environment, I am in Europe. The next 29 March is the date indicated for the Brexit, and, if necessary, the subsequent redefinition of the European project will occur at times of uncertainty and change. The European Union is encountering serious difficulties in providing responses and solutions to the major global challenges. We have experienced difficulties in the economic field, in its industrial and commercial aspects. Difficulties in receiving migrants or seeking refuge. Difficulties to ensure quality in employment, to incorporate the most difficult groups into employment and to ensure the sustainability of the welfare system. Political and institutional difficulties in establishing a project that offers solutions to the legitimate aspirations of non-state nations who want to be and be part of Europe. The debate on the future of the Union is open. Our bet is firm and is credited with the document "Vision of the future of Europe" that we have provided to promote greater integration and participation in this common project. In the economic sphere, the trend towards growth is maintained. Prospects remain positive for the economy and also for employment generation, but the economic cycle is approaching a point of maturity. It will be conditioned by the evolution of international trade and the foreseeable upward trend in the price of money. Also because of the growing need to guarantee the foundations of the welfare system. In this regard, the demands of pensioners have become particularly relevant. It is clear that the contributions of active workers will not be sufficient to guarantee the pension system, so, yes or no, future solutions with realism and responsibility will have to be put forward. The Toledo Pact is the setting for sharing diagnosis and making strategic decisions. The basic economic and social objective of this legislature in Euskadi is to bring the unemployment rate below 10%. We are moving towards this goal, and today we are moving forward with the sure possibility of achieving it next year. It is not enough, because our aim is to create employment and improve the quality and conditions of employment. In any case, even under conditions of political, social and commercial uncertainty, the economic trend in the Basque Country can continue to be favourable. Our guide is the "Public Policy Strategy and Development and the Budget Economic Framework 2018-2020". This is the road map that drives the economic policy of the Basque Government during this period. In the political context I highlight two important issues: the new Spanish Government and political developments in Catalonia. The Government that I chair has repeatedly shown, also in the previous legislature, the readiness for institutional dialogue and bilateral agreement. We present to the previous Spanish Government initiatives in all areas: economy, investment and infrastructure; industry; self-government; peace and coexistence. It is true that we have reached relevant agreements. I particularly highlight the Economic Concert and the Cup, also the progress on the Security Board and the approval of investments for the high-speed train. I recognize its importance, but we would have liked a greater willingness to institutional and political dialogue, and that relations between the Basque and State institutions would have gone through the channels of loyalty and respect for the statutory pact. This Parliament has criticized the Spanish Government for the constant dynamics of recourse to the laws adopted here, as well as other judicial conflicts. The bilateral dialogue for conflict anticipation and resolution has not been effective. No real sensitivity has been shown to comply with the Statute, to preserve its spirit or to complete self-government. The new Spanish Government has begun its journey with a new formal attitude. I am confident that the various structures of the State will show a greater sensitivity towards their own plurinational character and the uniqueness of our self-government. I trust in a greater willingness to engage in dialogue with the will of agreement. Catalonia is experiencing a situation of permanent political and institutional blockade. I bet I can move forward with determination in distension processes. Distension and dialogue. A dialogue with vocation and real will of agreement. In this context, I call for an end to the pre-trial detention of all persons who have participated in the trial and are in prison. Provisional detention is not a proportionate or justified measure from the point of view of judicial proceedings. The judicialization of politics is counterproductive. I believe in political action. It is up to the political representation of society to get to work already to offer solutions. On the Basque political scene I stand on a nuclear issue: the Statute of Gernika is the coexistence agreement that we acquired 39 years ago. It is unacceptable that this pact, which is organic law, remains unfulfilled in its entirety today. The Basque Government is working to ensure full compliance. That's how we defend it and demand it. Our commitment is to contribute to generating the climate that favours effective progress. In addition, Parliament continues to work on the possibility of a new political status for Euskadi. It unites us with the conviction that this is the space and time to update the recognized self-government, expand it and deepen its potential through a consensual, agreed and ratified institutional proposal, which has guarantees of effective compliance. In both cases, the new Spanish Government has the opportunity to genuinely commit itself through active listening and constructive dialogue with the Basque institutions. In this analysis of the environment, I focus my attention on our own Government. It should be said that the Basque Government is predictable. Yes, no problem, because we continue to work on the implementation of the programme and the objectives of this legislature. Complying with commitments is an investment in confidence. As lehendakari, I will always contribute to creating a political climate of confidence by promoting dialogue and agreement. I have done so during these six years, and I also do so now in relation to a fundamental instrument such as the budget. It is the basic tool for continuing to properly align public policy practice with the European Union's parameters of economic discipline. We will make every effort to agree on positive budgets to generate employment and guarantee social policies, which are basic objectives for Basque society. Society wants to enjoy this new time, a time when the violence of ETA remains behind, a time to move forward from dialogue and political agreement, to continue to overcome the hardest part of the economic crisis. I share this desire for Basque society. It's time to build a new future together. I also share the desire for equality between men and women, between women and men. Euskadi wants to contribute to deepening equality of opportunity, of rights; full equality in social, political, economic and also judicial matters. Justice, in addition to reflecting the society to which it serves, must be an instrument for building the society to which we aspire. Today we remind each and every woman who suffers attacks, harassment, intimidation, cuts in her rights and freedoms. Euskadi wants to raise his hand and be a society that drives equality. The Istanbul Convention establishes an indissoluble link between inequality and violence against women. The response we are assessing is innovative, a law for the equality of women and men and the eradication of violence against women. In this way, deepening the foundations of the current law, we would have a standard, unique in the State, that consolidates our multi-level model of work on equality and combating violence against women. The laws also have a pedagogical function; the message is: to greater equality, less space for violence against women. I am not complacent, because our leader is the most advanced countries and societies in Europe. And this is the time to build a future on real and effective equality. So far, a first vision or this first part of an overview of the environment. I stress the solidity of the path taken, aware that it is still necessary to collaborate and add together in order to respond to the challenges we face. Government practice, what you've done. At the beginning of this legislation I explained that we had at the beginning a challenge of four people: education, demography challenge and youth, digitalization and innovation, internationalization. It is evident that we have advanced on these four challenges which are responsible for every one of us and for all of us. That's the agreements that have been made in education, a positive initial change. We've agreed to a contract for the Renaissance, and we've just got the moment to build a new pact, to improve quality and results, and to get on with excellence. We continue to publish several initiatives in response to the challenge of the demography. The population grows old, and the hope of life increases. I fully believe that the challenge of demography is concerned, especially with what young people expect from life and work. We need an integral action. That's what we've got to do to help Families 2020-2022 Plana. That's the main instrument to bring to the "Escal treaty" in aid of Familiai and childhood. That's the sign of a society that has made the challenge of digitalization. We said we'd increase 5% of the public innovation investment and we've kept our word. But with a whole country, we haven't made enough progress. We need a private company pull, too. We've accepted the international strategy of Basque Basque Country. This challenge also touches many branches: institutions, economics, education, culture, touristism... After all, it affects the whole eucalyptic society. Four popular challenges, and four have answers in our government program. 100% of the program is running. There is activity in commitments 175 and 655. We've published 3,268 activities on "Open" transparency. Of the 28 laws of the calendar, three are already allowed the dopings, the education of trade, and the port, and the transport of the sea; In all, we've started 19 initiatives and we'll be able to complete the other nines in two years. The planeting strategic plan is in effect. We've agreed to 15 strategic plans. It's 45 of the bureau planet. The department has agreed to make plans for business. This year, they will handle 1,528 million, and there are 15 national targets in the government program. In the midst of the legislation, let us make a first estimate, and let us see how far the 15 nations have been fulfilled. In the equator of the legislature I present the balance of the achievement of the 15 country objectives. Objective 1. We said "Achieve 125 % of the European Union's gross domestic product per capita". This is a benchmark for measuring the prosperity of countries and has great weight in the human development index. Well, today, Euskadi stands at 122% of the EU average in purchasing power parity. The gross domestic product per capita is EUR 33,000 in Euskadi and EUR 30,000 in the Union. The power of the industrial sector is fundamental to improving our per capita income and achieving 25% of the gross industrial value added is a basic objective. According to Eustat, Euskadi reached 24,2 % in 2017, one tenth more than in the previous year, 2016. Goal 2. We said "Reducing unemployment below 10% by 2020". The trend is positive; the unemployment rate has been reduced by 3.3 points since the start of the legislature. In 2016 I was in the 13,4 % and today at 10,1 %. Social Security membership is growing. We estimate the creation of 17,800 net jobs this year and 13,200 next. The unemployment rate may be below 10% one year before the announcement or the estimate. In no way can we trust each other and less conform. The priority is to reduce unemployment as much as possible and also to improve the quality of employment. Goal 3. We said, "Achieve a first job experience for 20,000 young people." The Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery estimated that 5,000 young people could have a first job experience in 2017. The result has reached 6,856 young people. The youth unemployment rate has fallen below 15%. However, much remains to be done, because this objective is framed by a country challenge, the youth stake. Goal 4. "Start 100 strategic innovation projects." We have advanced, we have invested 43 million euros in 35 strategic projects, approved the Strategic Plan of the Network of Technological Parks, opened the Cybersecurity Centre and supported 1,294 innovation projects in small and medium-sized enterprises. Goal 5. We said "20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions". This indicator, adopted by the Europe 2020 Strategy, takes as a reference the year 2005. Euskadi, on the basis of the latest Eurostat data from March 2017, fulfils this objective. Emissions have been reduced by 26%, and the average reduction in the European Union is 17.3%. Goal 6. We also said "Compliance with the European public deficit commitment". In 2017 we met the target; in fact, we closed the exercise with surplus as a result of responsible management, increased collection and settlement agreement for the 2007-2016 quotas. Our commitment is to ensure development and social cohesion without mortgageing future generations. Responsible management has made it possible to maintain social priority. Since the beginning of the legislature, the budget for education, health and social protection has increased by 403 million. In 2016, social spending was 6,514 million and this year it is 6,917 million. In the budget proposal for 2019, social spending will for the first time exceed €7 billion. Social spending has increased by 403 million in absolute and also relative terms; it represented 64.9% of the budget in 2016 and amounted to 67.3% in 2018. The goal number 7, "is to be in front of the transcripts of transparency." So we said. In 2010, he had 5 points from 100 to 57.5 points, and in the last measurements of 2014 and 2016, we have 100 points. 8. The purpose of "life hope for a year's increase" The hope of living at the beginning of the law was 83 years old, so if we do this, we have to stay in 2020 for 84 years. The current date is from 83.5, and we are at the head of Europe in the life of the newborns. The point is, "the school leave rate is less than 8%." Ratium is measured in the degree of Europe, to know how many of the young intermediates between 18 and 24 years do not end the second stages of secondary education, the Batxilerian or the Education of the profession. The rate of intersection is 0.9 points narrowed from the start of the legislation and today is 7%. We have one of the humblest ratios of all Europe. 10th the object was, "to get 75% of the young men less than 25 years old to know how to support it." According to the Sopinguistics in 2016, it is able to speak of 71.4 of the young in 16 years. The goal is to over 75%, and to improve the knowledge and use of the bond, and in the room, as well as in the out-of-the-room activities and leisure. 11th, the goal was to reduce 20% of the rate of poetry. The indicator used in Europe is the Epoch index that provides data in the region. The first act of legislation was 17%.6. So the goal is to lower this rate into 14,1%. The last act given by the Eurostate is 14,5% of the lowest data of the European Union, lower than Finland, Sweden, or Denmark, and below the average of Europe: 23,7%. The object is, "to increase the rate of marriage and to give more support to families who have children." When the legislation began, it was 8,7, of one thousand inhabitants. The last date is 2016 and the year of birth is 8.4. One of the lowest rates of the European Union is, in all, that there are 10 births in the population of 1000. We're not moving on at this point. As we challenge the people, we must face this negative cycle. We must change culture and take measures in the region of the apartment, in youth, in employment, in social police, and in the construction of the house. 13. The end was, that we should place in the genus Euchara among the first four countries. In the European index of the genus we have come to the fourth place. The last measurement that has been published is 2018, and after the alterations to be made in the designs of Europe, Euskdi is in the ninth place among the countries of Europe. June 19th. We accepted the equality plan and identified what we should do in the 31st zone. There is also a strategy and an efficient plan to reduce Eukadin's salary. I shall further mention this subject, when I present our principal intentions. 14. The object of the people, "to put an end to the final annihilation and destruction of the family," were we in the beginning. In this discussion of general politics we may first say: It's over and it's over forever. Let us congratulate one another and look back upon each other, that we may have the deepest solidarity towards all the victims. Since we accepted the planet for 2020 partnership and Human Rights, this last quartet has been productive in advance of a very prosperous partnership. To show me certain bounds: Watching the victims. On the 10th of March we organized the European day of terrorism under the refrain "It was unfair." We have defended the law to give attention to the victims of human rights. On this point, we have come to make an agreement with the Spanish Government. Prison policy: We've presented a collection of proposals to President Mariano Rajoy and Pedro Sánchez. I'd like to mention the word program to promote the legal proceedings of society, and on the direct road, to give a new direction to prison policy, inside legality, and to facilitate the approaches of the prisoners. We tried to anticipate international terrorism, which calls religion an excuse: On the April we accepted the Acting Program and formed the ADOS committee. Development collaboration: We have agreed to renew our co-worker 2018-2021 plan, to adapt to new challenges, and expand the consistency of beautiful developments. Reflexed: We've arranged the integral response to euscal social institutions and co-working with the Spanish government and ACNURs. Although we have no right to answer to the new kinds of migration, we have acted on the cooperation of public institutions and social institutions with two points of view; To offer a legitimate human solution to the situations which occur in a short period, and prepare an strategic response to the challenge that emigrations and demography strike. This way, we'll introduce a new "Share" proposal in Europe. Objective 15: "Self-government and new political status for Euskadi". In relation to self-government, I focus on presenting the actions of the Basque Government: Implementation of the agreements for the approval of the laws of the Cup and of the Economic Concert; favourable position of the Constitutional Court and the channelling of the transfer of the railway lines Alonsotegi-Barakaldo and Bilbao-Basauri; transfer of the mandate of the Basque Parliament to the Spanish Government to present in six months a timetable of work to address the compliance with the Statute of Gernika. Implementation of the Bilateral Commission for Cooperation between the State Administration and the Euskadi Administration for the transfer of the remaining 37 transfers. In this area of self-government, I attach special importance to the event organized on 28 February on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Basque Economic Concert. The Concert is the unanimous support of the Basque institutions and also represents the essential element of the political commitment of coexistence with the State. The institution of the Concert, a bilateral pact and central core of Basque self-government, is a useful reference as a model of institutional coexistence, political harmony and guarantee of well-being for society. A necessary reference to advance a new agreement, a pact of self-government for the future of Euskadi. In closing this second part focused on presenting the main achievements of the Basque Government during this year, I highlight initiatives in external and international action: Document "Vision of the future of Europe", our contribution to the open debate on the future of the Union. Presentation at the United Nations High-Level Political Forum for the first time of the Euskadi-Basque Country 2030 Agenda. Strategy of the Euroregion with the full incorporation of the Foral Community of Navarre and New Aquitaine. Signed memorandums of understanding with Quebec and Wales, which are incorporated into the Basque network of strategic partners. Permanent relationship with ambassadors and ambassadors, diplomatic and consular corps. Participation in international meetings, including the Congress of Vocational Training, the meeting of the World Tourism Organization, the "Industry 4.0" day or the Deep Learning meeting, focused on science and technology, and a formal proposal to the European Commission signed by seven regions and non-state nations for the institutionalization of the figure of the Associated Region. Our action of government is natural to Europe and to nationality, and will remain so. We also take part in the consideration of the future of Europe, and we believe that the process of integration must be higher than that. Hence it is that we wager that the countries which the legislator possesses, or the nations which have no state, may contribute more. We believe that Europe must be a network, and it is our intention to be a part of that network from the base. It's also good for a hundred economic and productive eucalyptic eucalyptics, a company, an technological center, or a university. The alliances of the business world and the alliances of technology must be encouraged, public institutions and corporations must contribute more to strengthen our position in Europe. That's, deep down, the meaning of Euskdi Basque Country international strategy. Future challenges. We're still on the move, because there's still a lot to do. I've been listening to the most significant performances in the past year. I thank every department for the work I've done, and I thank you also for being constantly protected by the Euas patriots and the Sociists of the Basque Sociists. We share a government that governs. We govern with closeness and transparency in matters. We've got our feet on the floor. I have also examined the difficulties, and I have taken them upon myself, and admit that there are privations. In economic areas we have much to do in improving the quality of employment, by means of a collective negotiation to reduce the provisionalness and increase wages, as well as the aid of the depressed fields of the profession or of industry. We haven't even succeeded in investing enough in innovations, and it's a key to future development. In social areas, we need to improve the management of rents to support incomes, and we need to co-ordinately co-ordination for the housing or social emergency support. We must also enlarge the support of the family and of the alliance, which will help us to increase the birth rate. Public services have been delayed in some investments to be made at medical centres, the decree of free aid has been delayed, or we have not done enough in our friendships with those we give to the activists. We've still got the way to do it in the college connection with the company, and we're trying to get our talent back in the Euskula. In the case of legislation we have had difficulty in advancing on the law of sustainable mobility, and there is nothing to do but the new text of the Contribution Law. We hope that this very year we can reach an institutional consensus in order to cultivate that text. There has not yet been any climate in the political and institution of the State to fill the whole of the state, and to update the auto-genera, or to end the condition of the prison policy, after the dissolution of it. We've accepted and carefully explained the problems in the public offer of Osarides and there's difficulty in getting the Society Table started. We are still suffering the severe evil of violence against women. We allow that there is difficulty in advancing to equality between women and men. We have difficulties, as well as want and trouble, we do not conceal it, we plan it with transparency. Anyway, the way we made it was important. Our program is our commitment to euscal society. We know what the targets are, and we have a compass to accomplish them; but even if we have a compass, we must row, that is our commitment. We must appreciate the speed we've accomplished and continue to move forward. Based on this view, I'll let you know some of the initiatives we're planning this year. The presentation is structured on both axes: patient growth and human development. The axis of the bearable growth. Our goal is to keep pushing the economy in order to help create more and better jobs. We're going to create a tech of Euska Parterzer, along with the forum and the scientific and technological agents. The goal is to have one of the European leaders in the field of innovation. We'll set up a new photovoltal facility in Arasur, which will be the largest Euscadian facility, and help us make the most of our survival transitions. Companion companies will allow us to continue in enterprises by means of Socade, which is the purpose of making the root of commercial tractors, competition, and international competition. We'll continue with the sustainable Euscadio Bonu, the first release made this year in the nation, the offer has been threefold. We will consent to a plan for the industrial development of the areas of great difficulty, which is the result of the industry of the forum and of the labor of the townships. We'll get the high-speed train into the Gaste Name. The works of the electric bus will be lit up. We have a precursor project of patient mobile activity that will be set in Donostian and Gaste. We're modernizing the service of the profession, and we're using an integrated hand-on model addressed to people and corporations. We're working on the UFP and the Basque Office Act Act Act. We are going to give priority to the social education of employment, to the social equality of women, to the attention of more than 45 years old, and to the exclusive employments of labor. We will accept a decree on the technical inspection of the buildings. We're going forward with the guidelines on the region's schedule. It's a young man's job to help young people to hire a housing lease. We will perform "Push 2050 City Age," and move forward in the mutation of these two laws: in the local administration and the preservation of Nature the Ondarite. We're gonna push the old-fashioned housing program with an integrated plan to hand over the damaged neighborhoods. We've got to plan the tourist industry for the first time. We will force the inspection of the tourist housing to guarantee a patient and quality tourist service. We'll accept support for traders and organize an international symposium for digital trade. I close this section of initiatives on the axis of sustainable growth with a double commitment to investment and innovation. After the toughest years of the crisis, the time has come to make an effort to strengthen public investment. Today I am advancing the intention of the Basque Government to prioritise the increase in own investment by 7% in the budget proposal for next year. We will promote a specific programme of productive investments, investments in innovation and economic growth projects, social investments for the modernization of education and health infrastructures. More investment to generate wealth and quality employment, to ensure social policies and the Basque welfare system. Innovation is the lever for companies to gain competitiveness. We are at the dawn of a new era that will be characterized by the exponential development of artificial intelligence and its applications. We can't miss the train. Our commitment is to promote, in collaboration with companies and technology centres, 35 strategic projects tractors of the Basque scientific technological system. We will encourage technological research projects in our industrial fabric. We need companies to recover the investment effort lost during the crisis. This double public commitment will be reflected in a 7% increase in own investments and 5% in research and development in the 2019 Budget. I focus, then, on the axis of human development. In social policies we intend to reach a broad consensus in the new income guarantee law and for social inclusion. We will update the regulatory decree of care centres for the elderly. A decree of consultation and collaboration with the third social sector of Euskadi will be initiated through "Sareen sarea". We will adopt a new decree regulating programmes and services related to the employability of persons with disabilities. We will approve the new Basque Vocational Training and University Plan 2019-2022, to place our system in a European reference position. We will approve the educational infrastructure plan 2019-2022; we will advance the digitalization strategy of the public school. We will implement plans for the development of an inclusive school and for the co-education and prevention of gender-based violence. This year, the new hospital in Eibar will open its doors. We will approve the strategy for primary care and the linkage of Onkologikoa with Osakidetza. I also highlight the pioneering project of cervical cancer screening in Araba, which will extend to all of Euskadi in 2019. We will approve the strategic plan Kultura 2022. Our objectives are to promote the internationalization of Basque culture, attract new audiences to cultural events and encourage women's participation in culture. I stress the growing activity of the Etxepare Institute and the impulse of the use of Basquera in everyday life through the Euskaraldia initiative. We will intensify collaboration with Navarra and Iparralde, territories of the Basque region. We also hope to subscribe to a framework of strategic collaboration with the new institution of Iparralde, and to further strengthen collaboration with the Foral Community of Navarre. In external action, we are working to incorporate the accession of the Basque institutions as a whole to the commitment of the 2030 Agenda. We will establish the Basque Country Eguna with the aim of highlighting the contribution of different actors and sectors to our external projection, as well as strengthening the concept of "Auzolana" in the internationalization of our country. We will promote the adoption of the decree on free legal aid and the electronic administration of justice. We intend to open two new family meeting points for judicial referral in Tolosaldea and Lea-Artibai. Our intention is to adopt this year's decree institutionalizing the Social Dialogue Bureau. We have moved the framework agreement for employment and qualifications to that table, as decided by the plenary of the Basque Parliament. With regard to security, we are in the process of renewing the Ertzaintza mobile park and adapting the Ertzainetxeak to the new police model of proximity. We will continue with the generational renewal of the Ertzaintza, incorporating 780 agents into the Academy in two new promotions, and we will complete the first unified selective process of local police and develop the new application for threatened women. In the field of equality, we are developing an initiative of special relevance, the Strategy against Wagelessness 2030, as well as the Operational Plan 2019-2020. Our goal is to narrow the pay gap between women and men. We set up a set of 12 tractor initiatives and 60 action measures. For example, an equal pay inspection plan, encouraging responsible reconciliation, equalizing paternity and maternity leave up to 16 weeks, promoting scientific vocations and the incorporation of women into industrial vocational training or programmes aimed at promoting women in enterprises. Equality is an investment in coexistence. Women are claiming their rightful place in the family, political, economic and social spheres. Euskadi has been a pioneer in developing equality policies. We've made progress. I am convinced that Euskadi will be a more just, socially more cohesive and economically more competitive country if we, together, men and women, women and men, respond to the challenge of effective and real equality. Our aim is to place Euskadi among the first European countries in the gender equality index and in the fight against labour discrimination. So far the main initiatives in sustainable growth and human development. I now present the priorities for coexistence and human rights. I share two guiding criteria: first, to invest in consensus, to promote in plural agreements between institutional, political and parliamentary representations in the strategic areas of coexistence; secondly, to invest in society, to promote a culture of coexistence based on ethical foundations that constitute major social wills. On the basis of these two criteria, I highlight priorities in government action. Attention to victims is a priority. We will deepen the areas of dialogue, cooperation and agreement with the victims of terrorism and violence. To promote the predictions of the Bertiz Declaration as a critical reflection on the injustice of the damage caused by violence and the modification of prison policy. Advance in the Gogora Institute's programme of action in memory policies, with attention to historical memory. Implement the law on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations. Initiatives to respond to the emerging challenges of coexistence: a framework document on responding to the humanitarian crisis faced by refugees, a law on centres of worship, a Basque interreligious council, an action programme to promote coexistence with the Basque Islamic community and work with the ADOS commission, and to develop the initiatives of the IV Development Cooperation Master Plan 2018-2021 with a human rights approach and policy coherence. I conclude this paragraph with a strategic reflection: the discourses that seek to devalue human rights extend. Today, while paying attention, we must respond to the new challenges. Our priority is to address and address the new challenges of equality, plural coexistence, demography or migration. Euskadi has historically been a territory of emigration and immigration; emigration has made us bigger in the world and immigration has enriched us as a people. We have the opportunity to integrate people who come to work for a future, enrich us with their culture and bring work capacity to our economy. I set up a Basque social pact for migration. We are developing a comprehensive response with initiatives at the European, State and Basque levels. We are aware that societies with the highest index of social balance are the most prosperous. Countries with the most capacity for reception and integration and better coexistence among different countries are the most developed. The neighborhood is our model. If we work together, Euskadi will be able to deal with the hinges, I'm sure of that. We have to make solid strides and lights. I insist on five steps: The job. We shall do our utmost to attain our principal object a year sooner; unemployment dropping below 10% and improving job quality. The job is the country's objective. The growth. The next step is to create a fund to help the company world. In addition to this, we will increase productive investment and social investment. The growth is the focus of the country. Partnership. We shall focus our attention on the two axes of the Bertish Expression: Make prison policy a policy of life and share a critical memory about terrorism and the pain caused by violence. Community is the focus of the country. The migration challenge. Euskadin, we're going to encourage a social pact for migration. In Europe we will present Share proposal to share a solid response. Integration is the country's objective. Auto-gourge. We want to make an agreement to update and increase the auto-organization. In this world of shared sovereigntys, there are options to decide and combine the will to agree. That's why I insist on superiority. I take the agreements I've made in the briefing committee, and I plan to spread them. The auto-organ is the country target. A year ago, I brought a thought about self-generacy into this parliament. I was sure, even then, that the update of self-generacy must be made from the humping, for a life experience between different identities, and always for mutual confession and respect. We've still got a lot to work, to do, and we've got a lot to bring, to give, to bring. Today I have a new reflection with respect, optimism, a constructive attitude. To move forward from what has already been agreed on, loyalty is decisive. Loyalty first of all towards political treaties established in the past, and confirmed by the euscal society. The most important thing, the state of Guernica, agreed in 1979, approved and confirmed. For nearly 40 years, the State has had a fundamental function in our auto-genera, a democratic partnership, and a welfare for the community. But it's still an incomplete rule. In September last year we sent a report of the uncontested transfers of the state's debt to the Basque citizen. In this legislature we have often disputed the manner in which democratic principle and the principle of legality are combined. The state of Guernica was agreed, confirmed, and appointed for the Organic Law. It is a compact which fills the principle of democratic principle and legality. If it were to be fully filled, it would mean that it would resume the way to the hump that it desired in 1979. The continued absence of satisfaction entirely deprives him of the demand that he does not fulfil his legitimacy. I am speaking of the Spanish Government, of the necessity of returning to this stage of chance and purpose. Reality is that almost 40 years after the United States of Guernica has not been fulfilled, and that the State does not accept its plurination reality. I repeat that reality is that in the course of almost 40 years the state of Guernica has not fulfilled its plurination and that the state does not accept its plurination reality. If you continue this close, if you hold that double negative, what alternative is it? It is my intention to neglect the attitudes that bring nothing but frustration, for we never know where they are going to lead us, and to take for them an attitude which will bring an illusion, a treaty, and a communion. I ask the Spanish Government to grant a double consent, to complete the state. Let him acknowledge our self-portrait and accept the plurination of the state. The first step is to observe what is made. The state can contribute much to this new age by its proper model of land. He has a choice of adopting the manners of his country, knowing that the majority of the majority have very special views. He can do it, and he has to. The state has an opportunity of confessing Euscadi's national reality and our own special model. He can do it, and he has to. The criminal laws which are in force already acknowledge to the Euchaki that a special position, which has enormous powers. These powers require only the explicit support of political will to become reality. The state ought to give a political security for all these powers a legal influence. I ask the powers of the state to open a path to the designs of a people, which is not the result of a technical decision from Madrid, but a tendency of centuries, full of sacrifices, exile, and commitment. This would give a solution to the crisis of territory which disturbs the State itself. I am talking about the Spanish Government and the need to tackle this stage with a high eye. After almost 40 years the Statute of Gernika was not fulfilled and the plurinational reality of the State was not assumed. If you keep this lock, not this double, what's the alternative? My proposal is to replace attitudes that can lead to disappointments and frustrations that we never know where they end up with a new attitude that generates illusion and leads to a reality of pact and coexistence. I place the Spanish Government on a double yes: to comply in its entirety with the Statute – our recognized self-government – and to assume the plurinational reality of the State. It is time to put into value and fulfill the pact reached in the past and to work out a new agreement for the future; it is time to demonstrate with facts that it is worth betting on harmony and coexistence. More deal means better deal. For months, five different formations in tradition, trajectory and experience have had the opportunity to contrast and contrast a diagnosis and a vision of the future within the Self-Government Office. The paper has worked towards the agreement, and that direction must be maintained. Today I will be allowed to invite you to caress that agreement. The Basque self-government is a historical good. I stand before my responsibility as a lehendakari, and also before my civic and social responsibility, similar to that of anyone else in this country. My first duty is to protect and ensure that the recognized self-government is fulfilled. The tendency, sometimes, is to scorn and even ignore what has been achieved. Today, however, in an uncertain and competitive world, we are more aware that we have inherited a self-government that allows us, if we take care of it, to stand as a people. Aware of the limitations and the course of time, I have in the highest evaluation what we are and what we have built with our own self-government. It is up to us to value what we have and share the changes we need. We need to grow from the deal, and the deal is made here. Let us imagine today the scene of a broad agreement. It's positive. It's possible. The agreement is positive because it involves reconciling, clarifying, advancing, guaranteeing... It's supposed to grow. The agreement is possible by deepening the links revealed by the paper's own work: To adapt self-government to the new reality of coexistence; to recognize the national character of Euskadi and the uniqueness of our model; to deepen the plurality and recognition of the different feelings of belonging; to guarantee social rights and policies, to give priority to cohesion and social justice; to update the catalogue of competences and to expand the competition fund; to clarify the decision-making capacity and to guarantee an effective system of bilaterality; to establish the European vocation and the international projection of our country. These links can – and must – facilitate convergence, widen the agreement. Let's move on to a stage for the deal. The trunk concept of our program is effective and guaranteed self-government. The updating of historical rights can establish a mechanism that obliges Basque and State institutions to act on a principle of bilaterality and concertation. Our reference, Europe, is an example in its functioning of plurinational democracy, the framework for harmonious coexistence of diverse national realities. In Europe we find examples of a positive response to disputes of a territorial nature or new models of self-government: Scotland and Britain as an example of a political culture to recognize the plurinational reality and apply the democratic principle in an agreed manner; Belgium and its model of asymmetric federalism, anchored in the recognition of national, Flemish and Walloon identity, expressed in the capacity for joint representation before the European institutions; Switzerland, with a model of shared sovereignty, respect for bilaterality and the exercise of direct democracy; Bavaria and German federalism, based on the principle of subsidiarity, cohesion and solidarity, as well as federal multilateral loyalty. The confederal model works to solve realities in which different feelings of national belonging coexist. Europe operates with a model of "multinational democracy." Euskadi is also organized internally on the basis of a model that assumes its own diversity and plurality. Forality has an essentially confederal sense. This model works. Why not apply it in the state? Let us talk about plurinational democracy. A more ambitious re-reading of the first additional provision of the Constitution and of the derogatory provision, which is deemed definitively repealed by the Abolition Act of 25 October 1839, is possible. That abolition of the Fueros, completed in 1876, involved the questioning of our historical rights and the consecration of the unity imposed against the model of voluntary union on an equal footing that for centuries had guaranteed coexistence. The additional provision and the repeal of the 1978 Constitution implicitly contain a potential that has not been fully developed, as well as the unique additional provision of the Gernika Autonomy Statute. The updating of our historical rights can foster the full recognition of the political personality of our people, and a unique and unique set of powers that enable the development of collective aspirations. Let's move on to a stage for the deal. An agreement is stronger the broader it is. The greatness of democracy is not enough to reflect the right of the majority, it also adds consideration to the minority in order to facilitate integration. A majority agreement in a basic rule of coexistence guarantees its future. A broader consensus strengthens it. The key is to broaden the agreement: more agreement means better pact. The objective of this new stage would be the assumption of Euskadi as a national reality with a historical will for self-government and decision-making, and the consideration of the Statute as a quasi-constitutional rule. From both issues derive legal, political and relational consequences, a unique competence and institutional self-organization, a relationship with the State based on bilaterality and the pact, and a system of effective guarantees to prevent the violation of self-government. On this basis, the new political status of Euskadi must be born with the ambition of responding to the needs of this new time and of a new generation. I'm inviting you to extend the agreement and to examine the competency with good-natured eyes. It's a positive purpose. It is our responsibility to facilitate the course and the institutional competency, and to take upon ourselves the responsibility of obtaining the confirmation of society. As president, I stretch out my hand, and let us all try to find the way to the widest range that will lead us. It would be the success of the whole society which has chosen us as representatives, and aid us to social excitement. A new and extensive arrangement in the Euscala self-organization is desirable, effective, and positive. He deserves all our efforts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The whole meeting is suspended until 1:30 p.m. It was ten o'clock in the morning and forty-five. At two o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u3	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the meeting. On behalf of the teams, the Euskal Potion spokesman. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Things have changed radically since last year's general policy debate, and they have changed to worse. There are now many doubts and few convictions about the political scene in the coming months. There is today a new Government in Spain, which seems to be immersed in a complicated interinidad, not only because it has very few parliamentarians but because it depends on political forces of all kinds, where there are populists and radicals, and because it shows a worrying lack of guidance and criterion that forces it to improvise and rectify on a daily basis. A Government that trusts its continuity in the support of those who, in one way or another, have flagged the breakdown of our constitutional system and sustain their political discourse in the questioning of our democracy and our regime of rights and freedoms. These are Pedro Sánchez's allies on a well-known journey without destination, but initially supported by a common front, which was to derail Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party from the government. We are facing a government in laboratory phase, subjected to continuous marketing experiments Sometimes it's worse. Political decisions are self-amended after bulging errors or a political and social pressure impossible to sustain. The most obvious examples have been the bandits in migration policy, where we have moved from misunderstanding of goodism to confrontation with reality, or the lack of reaction and late defense in the face of a new attack on our rule of law, our jurisdictional order, by the hand of the fledgling Puigdemont. In both cases there is a worrying deficit in the rigour and prudence that is advised to any serious government, but also the high price of keeping the most extremist allies calm and therefore free of movement the presidential chair. The result is a precarious government that in just 100 days has already seen the resignation of two ministers and whose president is under suspicion. And the problem is that, given the risk that the Government will not last, the forces that made it possible are in a hurry to pass the bill. Things have not changed alone, you have changed them. The new Government of Spain is yours, Mr Urkullu, who has voted a majority that brings you all together to exclude the People's Party. It is the government they wanted, the consequence of your party's policy of alliances, Mr Lehendakari. Until this morning we could have some doubts about the intentions of the PNV in supporting the government of Pedro Sánchez. You have cleared them with an unusual contunence in their political style and which causes us deep concern. Because you came to Parliament this morning with a fundamental objective: to demand from Sánchez the political price of his support for the motion of censure. He has done it on the worst terms and built it on a lot of falsifications and distortions of history. Chapter of falsehoods. It is not true that the Statute of Gernika is not complied with. It is not true that there are 37 competencies without being transferred. His Government's document did not stand up to an analysis with some rigour. Let us put, for example, ports and airports. Does the port of Bilbao or Loiu airport have to cease to be of general interest for compliance with the Statute? Do you not designate the president of the Harbour Authority, apart from any provision of the Statute? What is it for you to complete the Statute: that the State ceases to exist in Euskadi? If there is any untransferred competition, it is only because you want it only by mouth, as is the case with prisons, or you reject it in the only terms in which it is possible, which is that of constitutional doctrine, as is the case with social security. They did the same with active employment policies, and they had to be agreed by a socialist lehendakari. Why not explain, Mr Urkullu, that the Basque institutions manage competences that were not provided for in the Statute? I will give you a sample: where does the Statute state that excise duties should be agreed? And that's not a minor issue. The reality is that neither in Belgium, nor in the United Kingdom, nor in Switzerland, are the countries that this year brought us new, a region with as much margin of self-government as the Basque Country. Second falsehood: the confederal Europe model, which is its inspiration. Europe is not a confederation; it is a union of sovereign states, with rules of harmonization, by the way, which you would reject for the state. As you can see, directives are being adopted in Europe which are binding on the Member States outside their powers. Force to change the laws and do not provide for the foral pass, as you do in your new status. He has repeatedly told us about his document "A vision for Europe". I have a question. Juncker answered him, he gave him the reason. Are you going to prepare a draft directive of clarity, as you intended, so that those which you call unstated nations can break their respective states with the Union's approval? No, right? Well, don't confuse Basques by painting them as possible a future that you know is absolutely illusory. Is it that easy for you to break a country? Don't you see the difficulties that the United Kingdom – which is not a smaller country, has even the right of veto in the United Nations – in getting out of the Union? To be honest, it does not seem to me responsible to frivolize with these issues. Distortions of history. You see, in 1839 and 1876 the Basque Country did not exist as a legal-political entity. They couldn't take anything from him. In any case, it would be to the provinces of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which are the holders, according to the Constitution, of historical rights. Navarra did, but the Navarras negotiated and passed their covenanted law in 1841, allowing their outside freedoms to accommodate the new liberal state, because what was wanted was to build a modern liberal state. You know, equality before the law, abolition of internal customs and all that. Where do you want to take us? There is no idyllic Basque country prior to 1839. It was a stable society, unequal and burdened with privileges. We can't go back to that in the name of supposed rights of history. Historical rights are not what you claim. You also argue, in an interesting way, like the Catalan separatists, that there is a Basque people who become a legal-political subject by virtue of the historical rights contained in the first additional provision of the Constitution, forgetting precisely that it is not history but the constituent power that grants validity and validity to those rights, and that constitutional and legally there is no more sovereign subject than the Spanish people as a whole. He asks his lordship for loyalty, but loyalty is a word that comes great to his party, because it is only worth his doing. Your bet is a bet for unilaterality. Let us put on a case-by-case basis his picturesque theory that the principles of democracy and legality come into collision and need to be harmonized. How will that be possible if the principle of legality is the result of the democratic principle! Democracy is expressed in laws, and it also consists in complying with laws, which are the same for all. What is the democratic principle for you: that in the area where you have a majority, laws no longer govern but your will? What is the nationalist conception of democracy? You spoke to us this morning – and it has remained so wide – about plurinational democracy. That, what is it? A democracy of nations? Are we no longer a democracy of citizens? Of citizens, lehendakari, who have feelings of belonging, those who want them, without that being able to undermine their rights. Has it been established in the distinction between citizens and nationals of their new status? Some Basques will be nationals and others will be neighbours, and there will be a census that points to us. Don't you think that's dangerous? The path you have chosen is based on false bases and leads to unilaterality, ordago and threat. He has demanded a double yes this morning: that the national reality of Euskadi be recognized and that 37 powers be transferred as you say, apart from what the Constitutional Court has considered or from any other interpretation other than that of Sabin Etxea. The location, of course, was no longer for us, the PP. We, from what we have seen today, are already being amortized. As it turns out, they couldn't get more out of PP and Rajoy was an obstacle. They have put the weakest government of democracy at the head of Spain, and now they tell it to either meet those demands or to abide by the consequences. I, the Socialist Party, would walk with tenet. Look, the last deal with the PNV lasted us a week. [[Barres]] But let's get to the bottom of it. What does the question in your speech mean, Mr Urkullu? What's this about "What other alternative do we have?"? Is that a threat to the state? Is that Catalonia? Are you willing to compromise your agreement with Bildu as a challenge to the state if its demands are not met? It is true that the Sánchez Government is wandering with a great need. Now it seems to even decide to defraud the law to pass the Budgets with trap and dodge the Senate. Nothing you can do without your support, because for all that you need. But I wonder: if the PNV has been able to take down a government a week after approving its budgets, why will it not be able, with the same consistency, to let the government it has invested go without budgets? This is a short regatta game, to deceive everyone, without wanting to make lasting commitments or bear the consequences of their actions. I regret to note, Mr Lehendakari, that your speech today has not only concerned me, but has also disappointed me. He has addressed the management issues of his Government in the boring tone of a delegate adviser. It seemed like a meeting of directors of the Basque Government. Because of the empathy you have put in talking about serious social problems, it would be said that for you and the Basques we are a statistic. I regret not being able to dwell on some issues in more detail today, but time will give us the session. I'm going to tell you about some that I don't consider at all minor. His half-parliamentary balance sheet, to put it mildly, is frankly improved. Let us take your legislative timetable on a case-by-case basis. Of the 28 proposed bills, apart from the two budgets, only three – two of them came from the previous legislature in addition – have been approved, and there are five in progress. The propositions of law do not count them because it is ugly to take over the work of others; more for you, which is so scrupulous besides in the division of powers. And with such a thin result you come to the House today and promise us more laws, including those of contributions, that you are unable to agree with yourselves. Frankly, what a fatigue for your parliamentary group, because waiting for departments to do them is to ask for pears from the elm. Therefore, in suspense laws, Mr Urkullu, and not for lack of support, because we have passed the three. What about the reforms? As no year is approached, all speeches appear in the section "Challenges of the future". Unfortunately, every year we make the same diagnosis, because every year it passes practically blank, without any significant changes that allow us to be more optimistic. It is true that this year has shown something more critical with reality, but without happening. It recognises problems with birth, entrepreneurship, the quality of employment, the situation of young people, the management of social aid or the cleaning up of the opposition in Osakidetza. That's how good it was. Then I realized that it had been a lapsus, because in a row followed, and without blushing, it has pointed out the existence of a positive change in Education. We have to have quail, Mr. Lehendakari! I will remind you of some facts that are difficult to forget about our educational system. The last PISA report, you know, puts us on the line with stupendous suspenses in science, mathematics or reading. All previous assessments were already alerting to a negative trend, but his Government continued its flight forward, looking the other way, avoiding responsibility and taking no action. In fact, the report was just the beginning of a rosary of bad news. In December of last year, for example, another demolishing result came to us, this time in reading comprehension. Did you know that we are the autonomous community where the difference in results is most noticeable according to the public or concerted ownership of the centers? The public, by the way, are the ones you manage directly. Also in November 2017 we suffered another stroke when we met another section of PISA, referring to the teamwork of Basque students to solve problems. In case it were little, last June the results of the diagnostic evaluation of the 17th, which came to confirm the failure of our educational system, arrived. Primary students go back in all subjects less in scientific competence, suspend and obtain the worst results of history in mathematics, Basque and English, as well as get worse in Spanish and stagnate in science. ESO students have also achieved the second worst results since 2009 in mathematics, science and Basque, stagnating in Spanish and improving in English, possibly because 91% of ESO students make out-of-school in that language, which can be paid for. Especially striking are the results in euskera, where the level of euskera drops in the classrooms and already suspends one out of every three students – to me it has been truly amazing that you came out to boast of that fact today in the rostrum. 30% of pupils do not exceed the initial level of spoken and written skills, and only 6 out of every 10 students master euskera at the end of their compulsory training. Something is not being done right, Mr Urkullu, when as Basque hours increase in classrooms the results in the Basque language worsen. In short, despite creating a captive model of linguistic immersion, the results are starred even in Basque. This is the reality, Mr Urkullu, but in the meantime the educational reform is still waiting. In this educational matter, when we give the data you always respond by offering a pact. Whenever something doesn't work and you don't know how to deal with it, it offers a pact. He's done it with immigration today. You'll let me tell you that you've worried me, because your pact offers are usually the foreword to bad news. Mr Lehendakari, the other day we met through a study by Lanbide – which you should not have liked because it has disappeared from the network – that are precisely one of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis. They suffer from high rates of temporaryity (55.4% of contracts are part-time) and precariousness, with a drop of 21% in wages in recent years. Many of them decide to pack and travel to other places with better job expectations, given the lack of measures by their Government to retain talent. In addition to the ageing problem facing Euskadi, which since 2007 has reduced its population by 17 and 24 years of age by 12%, we see that, as you have assumed, expenditure on health and social services is actually being fired. In short, a dwindling Basque country. Do you know that there are 100,000 people in Euskadi who cannot emancipate because of economic problems? Are you worried about the data? Do you think about them? Have you thought of anything that works to help them? Or will they also have to leave? By the way, the 15% youth unemployment you've given, where did you get it from? Because the Eustat, which has something to do with you, gives 20.7, is less optimistic, and the EPA, which is the official source of Eurostat – for you who like Europe – gives 26,2. He's much more pessimistic. Maybe you have to talk to Sanchez. Ask around and make it clear to me, it's not going to be that I'm wrong or that your government wants you to sweeten the reality so much with this kind of data so you don't have to have a bad time. I love you less than your government because you don't leave, but look at the data, see how they are. [[Laughing.]] It would be said that, as these complacent data handle, they are not overly concerned about the lack of reaction and passivity in policies that favour, for example, greater support for young entrepreneurs. For the Basque Government entrepreneurship is not a priority, nor does it even implement the games. He feels more comfortable in an interventionist control policy than in that which encourages and encourages personal initiative. That is why I believe that Euskadi needs a liberal impulse. I know that that word sounds strange in this House, but it needs a liberal impulse, a change of mindset, a more ambitious policy action that gives people greater prominence and power. The same can be said of the demographic challenge. They have failed to meet the commitments set out in the III Family Plan, especially the increases in birth support for convergence with the European Union in 2020, and have also failed to meet the €200 million multiannual investment for the next four years. Nor does the increase in benefits per second child from two to three years seem sufficient to tackle decisively a problem affecting the backbone of our society. I believe that the issue is not just about providing support and that there is a much deeper problem, but I believe that this is one of the essential future challenges and that you should pay the utmost attention to it, and in this House you should also pay attention to it in an exclusive and monographic way. Mr Urkullu, the solidarity of the Basques is not in question and is part of our identity signs, but our social system does not live up to the demands of this society or to the objectives it proposes, and its failure is prolonged in time without in recent exercises appreciating symptoms of recovery. They have been unable to address an in-depth reform of the Basque Employment Service, to take the necessary measures to improve the employability of unemployed people or to remedy the harmful management of social aid. The proposal brought here by the groups supporting it – and which did not receive support – is insufficient and confusing, and does not set out a clear road map for defining a new model of social protection, presents incomprehensible gaps in the regulation of essential aspects, does not resolve gaps in the requirements for access to aid, does not incorporate effective control instruments, does not prevent the chronisation of collectors or offers guarantees for their inclusion in the labour market. From the People's Party we understand that the model that works – I have heard it from you, but then the facts do not agree – is one that gives people opportunities, one that acts as a bridge to the labour market and one that effectively manages benefits by eliminating situations of abuse or fraud and by promoting co-responsibility and sustainability. They will have to bring the reform back to this House, but there will have to be major changes if they want the necessary support. Where these changes are inclined will determine the partner they want to carry out this law. That is why I warn you that you will have to choose, because it will be impossible to meet our expectations at the same time as those of Bildu or Podemos. Mr Urkullu, the political weakness of the government of Pedro Sánchez – which is yours – is already beginning to translate into economic uncertainty. Some economic indicators offer the first symptoms of slowdown in growth with a fall in employment in the worst August of the past eight years, a decline of almost 5% in tourism, a slowdown in exports or a loss of labour in household consumption. In the Basque Country, too, the setback is beginning to be blamed. It is true that the unemployment rate is lower than that of Spain, but Euskadi has had an increase in the number of unemployed in the month of August higher than the national one. It'll be for the tourism here. Also in the last 12 months unemployment has decreased in the Basque Country less than in the rest. He will tell me that they are already ready – and he told us this morning – to achieve his goal of reducing the unemployment rate to 10%, but I warned him that it could not be celebrated as a thing of great merit because it was only a matter of time, nothing had to be done. It's another one of the data you've been given to make you happy. They say, "No, we're going to get this...", of course, they put down the bar so they can jump without difficulty. I can give you some other data. Note: Since you took possession of lehendakari in 2016, there are more than a million new members of Social Security – all of Spain. Of those, Euskadi has contributed 11,000, 1% – it does not match our weight within the national whole, but, well, 11,000, 1%. But in the same period of time, do you know how many new pensioners there are in the Basque Country? 13,500. So, what's going on? Of course the unemployment is reduced! But what we are doing is not increasing our working population, but our employed population has increased at a lower rate than the number of our pensioners. I will tell you more: in the first eight months of 2018 only 8.83% of the contracts signed in the Autonomous Community have been of indefinite contracts; Spain as a whole is above 10%. In addition, the industrial sector, which is ours, which is the reference of the Basque economy and which employs more than 200,000 people, continues to sharpen space. In the past year it has fallen its employment by 2.3% in the Basque Country. Spain as a whole has increased by 3,27 %. How are these decisions of the government of Pedro Sánchez going to affect – I am worried because I live where I live, but everyone is worried about them – that erratic policy around the diesel, the main company in the Basque Country and our entire automotive sector? Now they say Sanchez wants to raise taxes. I do not know what you think about this, but I remind you that we have signed an agreement – which you have not yet denounced, which I know – to address an improvement in the taxation of families and middle and low incomes next year. That is, lower taxes, lower income tax and return to citizens the effort they made during the crisis, now that the collection is growing steadily above 10%. He will understand – and I want to make it clear – that moderation in fiscal policy is a condition for any understanding with us in economic matters. Mr Lehendakari, you have not mentioned that and neither have you thanked us, but we have worked with your Government for two years in exchange for stability, moderation and reforms. That was the deal. And I said, "If you don't leave with radical positions, I'll never let you hang," but you let me hang you. Today we know that moderation was a resource in its language that the facts contradict; that its capacity for reform always collides with its inability to make decisions and take sides. They cannot change anything because they are unable to choose the path to follow, and in all areas of reform and non-reform they handle a double discourse that, logically, ends up leading them to paralysis. They prefer political toy in Madrid to a policy of silence in Basque that meets the social needs and challenges of the future. I wonder where he wants to take the Basques, why he doesn't focus on the problems that concern the citizens, why he doesn't put aside his electoral interests, his party's constant desire for power, and he acts on how to foster a Euskadi that grows and creates opportunities. I ask you not to build a reality commensurate with your political needs and not to turn citizens into hostages of your sovereignist obsessions. Mr. Urkullu, ETA isn't there anymore. ETA practiced ideological cleansing against anyone who rebelled against his project of identity building. And he said goodbye – you were there – claiming precisely the right of self-determination and the independence of the left. His last statement literally said: "Materializing the right to decide for national recognition will be key. The independence of the left will work for this to lead to the constitution of the Basque State." This political commission is the one that guides the steps of Bildu, but also the one that drags you. The bases agreed with the left abertzale are an undisputed proof of this. The recipe is very old – and you said you were going to avoid it –: accumulation of independence forces and isolation from those who are not nationalists. I'm finishing up. Mr. Lehendakari, step back. Correct. Do not lead us along the path of division, political instability and economic impoverishment. I ask you for responsibility and wisdom. I ask you to work for an open and cohesive society, for a plural coexistence in which no one can ever be considered a second-class citizen for having a certain ideology. I ask you to move away from the radical stances that nothing good has ever brought to the Basque Country. I do it from my party position that for two years has provided stability. Since the legitimacy of having favored agreements because we believed that it was possible to contribute to an Euskadi in which we all can contribute, in which we can all contribute, because we believe ourselves a modern, plural and dynamic community, engine of transformation also within Spain. Today we are facing, Mr Urkullu, and, as I told you at the last control session, I no longer have reason to trust you, because every day that passes and maintains your agreement with Bildu to liquidate the Statute puts stability at stake, moves away from the reforms that Euskadi needs and brings us a little closer to the abyss. Because when you look at Spain you think about how to get revenues from their weakness, and when you rule in Euskadi you manifest yourself as the most recidivist party in projects that are exclusive and harmful to Basques, perfectly calculated to maintain their power machinery. Mr Urkullu, you have arranged for two years in favour. Two years of opportunity, with a majority. He has wasted the opportunities and despised their support. Today he may think he has more friends than before, because he is in a pact with Bildu and has also agreed with Podemos in Madrid and with the Catalan separatists who inspire them so much. Some of them may be taking out their budgets this year. If so, it will be bad for the Basques and for you. But I assure you, two difficult years. If you want to avoid it, you have to be thoroughly amended, because words are no longer enough. It's not possible to fool everyone all the time. It's not even possible for you. You have repeated many times this summer, and also this morning, your new mantra of widening consensus. I suppose in his change of partner he feels already enlarged, that we do not have as many parliamentarians as EH Bildu. His policy of widening is reduced to the fact that others join his covenants with Bildu. Or isn't that what it's all about? Are you prepared to waive the right of self-determination and the referendum they call an enabling consultation? Will you recognise the sovereignty of the Spanish people or do you want to force us, for the sake of expansion, to deprive the majority of the Spaniards of their political rights? I don't know if they're gonna respect Bildu's deal. Me that they, too, made me look at it with notary. But what this agreement does not do is respect the Constitution, neither the laws, nor the common sense, nor the desire for coexistence and tranquility of a majority of Basques. Nor does it respect the very agreement of this House when the presentation was formed; "legal, agreed and cross-cutting" was then wanted. Nor has that been fulfilled. What's the word for? What's your word for? Do not pretend that we swallow that a technical commission is going to amend what the legitimate representatives of the people have twisted. Your Honor, we will bring to this plenary a proposal to disrupt this mischief. Your words come sometimes sweetened, Mr Urkullu. Others, like today, in a more threatening tone – let Sánchez look at what he does – but the wind always takes them away. Honestly, if you aspire to gain our trust for something, we want facts. And reality tells us, unfortunately, that, foolishly, the facts with you invite only pessimism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Next up, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u6	Good afternoon. Mr. President, chief officers, congressmen and friends. The Lehendakari Ramón Rubial said that his aspiration was that everyone who lived in our country, whether born in it or not, could feel protected. It is the same ambition that underpins the Socialist Group's current decision to participate in the responsibilities of the Government, the willingness to agree with all other groups and to carry out projects that benefit the whole country. That's the auzolan. And I wanted to start with this reference, because in taking stock of the last course we did not want this important anniversary to be overlooked. This year, 40 have been fulfilled since the constitution of the Basque General Council, an organ that was not only dedicated to managing its small powers; an organ that was led by Rubial and had the challenge of rebuilding coexistence and making it the engine of the transformation of Euskadi. It was a team designed to consolidate the political culture born four decades earlier and broken by war and dictatorship. That is the political culture that allowed the adoption of the Statute of Gernika and its subsequent development, which allowed the stage of greater progress and social cohesion in Euskadi. And we must have learned well that the great agreements are only built from mutual recognition, from the assumption of differences, from respect for legality, from the principles of freedom, equality, justice and solidarity. And also from the desire to add. The wishes that we Socialists continue to have, those that we share with the majority of citizens and that demand understanding, stability, progress and cohesion. Basque socialism will never resign from that will, from that aspiration to the sum, from that ambition of transformation, from that desire to build the country together. Basque socialism will not abdicate its responsibility with Basque citizenship, to guarantee it a safe and renewing path, a path that requires calm and courage, legality and ambition. Therefore, in this course that begins the Socialist Group will remain committed to exploring the many coincidences that we have with all the groups, to knowing how to manage differences as well and to understanding the value of plurality. We will explore in depth the path that the existence of ETA blocked, that of full coexistence from ethical principles in a diverse society. Because we need it, because it is our great pending subject and because to achieve it will be the definitive aldabonazo for a Euskadi fully settled in the twenty-first century. And we re-claim that spirit, that culture and the best of our traditions: the agreement between different to progress by hand, without anyone, not a single person, feeling excluded from that shared project. That is the nuclear commitment that I intend to transfer to this debate by my group, that of not ceasing in the search for agreements. Lehendakari, I also heard you this morning appeal to the agreement. He knows that he was the driving force behind the pact that we reached almost two years ago, so that the government he chairs, in which the Socialists participate, would focus on employment, equality, social rights, public services and preparing Euskadi for the great challenges. And also to look for a new project of coexistence, which broadened the consensus, guaranteed plurality and made within the existing legal order. That we were going to look for it here, in Euskadi, in those terms, and I reiterate to you the sincere and loyal socialist commitment to achieving that goal. It is a commitment made to the whole of Basque society. That's why we're participating in the executive, which is fulfilling what's in the legislature's agenda. But as far as self-government is concerned, this agreement between the parties has not yet been reached. This is the first thing we must be able to see, instead of throwing the ball at the responsibility of other roofs. I repeat that, that agreement, we have to achieve it here between us and ourselves, because, if we really assume that we are in a very plural society, as the Socialists believe, what it is about is integrating the different ways of feeling Basque, and that has not been done at the moment. It has recognized the attitude of the new Government of Spain, which listens to individuals and territories. In a month, he'd unblocked court cases. In one month it had set up, for the first time, a standing committee for dialogue and meeting between the two governments. But it is not the responsibility of President Pedro Sánchez to fix here what we do not know how to channel, and, above all, it is of little use to invite to the agreement if a model is already closed today. It is hardly useful to appeal to plurality if the model offered only captures the aspirations of a part of society. You defend a confederal model, we defend a federal model. We are in an autonomous model, which we can only change if we reform the Constitution. If that is not the case – and you know it – what you are proposing now will only generate frustration, from which you and we want to flee, and I would like to reiterate to you: the Socialist Group will remain committed to what we sign for the governability of this country, and we will remain committed, above all, to ensuring the plurality that enriches us so much, that it has cost us so much to preserve and that is reflected in the path of broad consensus. Because we're opening a political course where the polls will be back. And here, in this Parliament, there is going to be a lot of temptation to think more about some vote that can be scratched than about some right that can be conquered. And my group, whatever happens in the coming months, will continue to seek to reconcile wills on the minimums that add up to society as a whole, in order to prevent the maximums of a part of that society from harming the whole citizenry. Between the whole and the nothing there is a huge channel in which we all fit, and that is where we have worked and where we will continue to work, because the search for agreements does not respond on our part to any arithmetic necessity, we do so out of democratic conviction. I have said more than once, in opposition or government, I now assert that a socialist is the President of Spain, and the President is to open a new period in this society because we were different parties, which shows the importance of the conversation in the time of the arrangement. It wasn't true that politics was useless, it wasn't true that we were all the same. We have shown that politics is indispensable in order to solve the affairs of the community, to oppose the poverty of children, not to leave 700 people in the middle of the sea, to recover the universal rights of health, to promote the temporal rights, to place her at the front of the decisions, to ensure the system of public pensions, all those things that have cost us so much trouble to-day have a chance of repairing them. And it's kind of fun for us, because it's a socialist government that makes it possible, of course, because people need an answer. And it's a pleasure, too, to share these initiatives with the pretty things we've made in the Sozialists in Eukadin. We decided to take the government's work into the community's agenda, not distraction, to accept the plurality of society, to abandon our differences, and to do all we could to do for the job, for equality, for the housing. We decided to search for parties with the Spanish Government, and today we have a president engaged with the agreement and the welfare of the Basque society. So it's a moment of opportunity and responsibility, of each and every one of the groups, so that the problems don't rot, to find solutions, because for that and not for anything else we're here. That's what politics is for. And not only do we talk about pending transfers or about unravelling issues blocked after the disappearance of ETA; we talk about many other issues, which are not the exclusively Basque agenda, but that affect us directly also each and every Basque and Basque. Because we are concerned with correcting the gaps in labour rights, the gaps in the protection of the right to health, the gaps in the guarantee of women's full equality, the gaps that have endangered the sustainability of decent public pensions. There are those in this House who, I am sure, would prefer these matters not to depend on the decisions of the Spanish Government, but it is not a matter of preferences, it is a question of reality, of the realities that the people we have accompanied on the streets in this hopeful year. We want to talk about these realities today, and in those realities we see that it is much more what unites us in this House than what separates us. And what unites us is what we want to turn all efforts on. We are united in our determination to recover from once to half of the population; that women should be placed on an equal footing in all political, economic and social spheres; that Basque socialism committed itself in campaign to take women out of the corner of protection and place them in the command cabin, for reasons of equality, but also because it is an immense capital that Euskadi cannot afford to waste. This is reflected in our Government agreement. And when the feminist appeal was made on March 8, we were there. Just two weeks later we were also here, in agreement with the rest of the groups on the Family Support Pact, one of our priorities in this mandate. A renewal proposal that goes beyond birth, care and paternalist policies, because women do not demand protection; we demand our right to be able to develop our lives without the decision to be a mother or not, alone or accompanied, implying a condemnation. That is why it was so important to extend parental leave. Euskadi was a pioneer and will now be completed in the whole of Spain with the new government, to continue to lift the barriers that prevent us from being equal. As we have to raise the demand that also unites us against the intolerable attempt of submission of the woman, which ends in so many murders. It is not enough for us to have been pioneers in Europe with a comprehensive protection law. We need to act seamlessly from every instance, from every house, from every public administration, so that there is not a single woman who feels afraid, so that all women can feel fully free. And also in relation to women, we have to narrow the pay gap. The latest data we know is not on the right track. Wage discrimination as a woman is prohibited in Spain, but they continue to access worse-quality jobs, and that ultimately conditions their income. And it's time to turn that situation around. This is what the Department of Labour has on the table, a battery of concrete and evaluable actions: assessed measures against labour fraud, training measures, rationalization of timetables, monitoring of compliance with equality plans, social clauses. Some are in the hands of the Administration, others require collective bargaining, but all deserve agreement with the social partners. And only that search for agreements to bridge the wage gap is a reason to recompose the table that was dissolved in April. Because in this Parliament, too, we have been united in calling for measures that will dignify employment and wages and encourage collective bargaining. And the place to do that is the Social Dialogue Bureau. In this open process there have been errors and they have been assumed. Lehendakari himself did so before this plenary. And now is the time to think about those people we represent political parties, trade unions and companies. And I want to make a new call here for dialogue for all. I ratify the socialist commitment, of my group and of those who have the responsibility to govern, to promote the spaces for meeting between the agents. An effort that we have not given up at any time, aware that forms are as important as the bottom. Therefore, to eliminate suspicions, to promote agreements, to dispel excuses and recompose trusts, we will have a decree that will get a stable and regulated table. It's the way this Chamber has confirmed the struggle against the Document Exchange. We have done a great service in increasing the performances of inspection, and this is why more than 6,000 men have regulated their situation in this law. And we can't lower the guard, get jobs that have rights because of the government's former commitment. Target is unemployment Less than 10% at the end of the bill, and we're on our first way to get it. But the point is not only to lower unemployment, but to guarantee the quality of employment. We still suffer the preparation caused by the forms of work in 2012. The new Spanish Government is directing this law, and we have a new instrument in it which is at our disposal: The Law of Education, founded on the education of the workingmen, who are under the necessity of this new and changing economy, nearer our reality. It is the path that allows for decent wages and sufficient contributions to guarantee decent pensions from the public system. This is another element that unites us here, in this House, as we endorsed a very large majority on 1 March. It is an element that has united us to the thousands of people that we have shared in the streets the movement of our elders, and it is an element that counts since June with the opportunity to correct the impoverishment suffered in these years and to which the pensioners were condemned in the future. Now is the time to give stability to that system. We have to do it who we have promoted the government of Pedro Sánchez, who is going to open that door. And in parallel we think of young people, because we are now united by a long socialist demand that seems to see the light: the elaboration of a specific law that treats them in an integral way. Just as we have shared a reflection and a bet that also extends the legislative calendar: making a law of Basque historical memory. A task pending to rescue from the corners of oblivion those who defended freedom and democracy in the face of coup and dictatorship. And we are also united in defending other pillars of social cohesion, such as those that guarantee the right to health and the right to education. And in this regard, I would like to thank on behalf of the Socialist Party all those who have made it possible for a basic agreement to improve the quality of education in our public institutions, strengthen support for students who have more difficulties and consolidate the employment of teachers. Three decades ago the Socialists laid the foundations of public school and the integration of the ikastolas. Today we continue to think that the future of Euskadi is played in our classrooms, in the knowledge and skills of our students. Therefore, we must continue to pay for the meeting spaces in order to expand the educational pact that must be fed by the new law. And that pact contains the limbs that we have been demanding: that students access English, Spanish and Basque; the public bet, support for teachers, innovation, the formulas to end ghettos and segregations that only lead to perpetuating inequalities. And I was also referring to another indispensable leg of our social model, that of the right to health. Here, the last major reform was undertaken two legislatures ago and we are in the process of consolidation. One of the great socialist bets and fights of the recent past, BioCruces, is already a reality as an indispensable bet for biohealth research. Another long – very long – battle, that of having a reference hospital in Eibar to meet the needs of 90,000 people, is about to be a reality; as are already Urduliz or the breast milk bank. Or as steps are also being taken to integrate Onkologikoa into the public health system and consolidate it as a spearhead in the fight against cancer. Strategic long-distance bets designed by the socialist government of which I was a member and which have had to overcome economic avatars and party fears until we have been able to convince them of their need. Just as there has been a need to overcome fears until all those affected by hepatitis C are treated with the medication that cures them. The Socialists introduced this demand into the governance agreement and today there are 6,400 Basques and Basques who have recovered their health. But even in the health field we needed to address a process of stabilization of staffing and generational relief. That is why, according to a part of the unions, a process of offering employment has been promoted. An OPE designed to give a quality job opportunity to professionals who guarantee our right to health and who have been marred by irregularities. From the outset, we Socialists call on the department to exercise maximum rigour and transparency in order to investigate what has happened, to ensure the cleanliness and security of the process and to clear up any responsibilities that may arise. That phase of investigation and reparation is under way and seems to us to be the most urgent. We will not play with the future of 96,000 people or with the questioning of this public service; we will not play to generalize or accuse without data and neither will we play to excuse anyone. We hope to resolve the matter of urgency and that all necessary measures will be taken to ensure that there is no slightest suspicion of the clean-up of this or any other public employment call. Another right that ends up joining all groups in a conquest that the Socialists initiated in solitary makes two legislatures: that of access to housing. The Socialists assume in the government the deployment of the law, a complicated task but that has allowed the various administrations to align to the same goal. And today, 47,000 Basque families have coverage of their government or their municipalities, 40% of the rental offer is protected, and an ambitious plan is being launched to facilitate access to housing for young people and their emancipation. The district of Coronation in Vitoria undertakes a comprehensive rehabilitation project; in Otxarkoaga they have a renovation plan as necessary as demanded by their neighbors. And we have to go, we have to finish convincing those who have unused floors that it is more important for them to make them available to those who need them. We have to complete the decree that consolidates the subjective right, but without a doubt, the leap we have made in such a few years in this right places us at the head of Spain. And above all, as a hope for those who demand from their political representatives that we meet their most peremptory needs. Answers to those who have suffered the most from the crisis that also unite us to all the groups in this House, when we have dealt with the Left Margin, the Mining Zone, the Incarcerations or Oarsoaldea. It was our first initiative in this legislature, to recover the work begun in the past. Now, with all the institutions online, the agreed actions must be undertaken, because we will not forget the citizens who live in the most disadvantaged regions. As we do not forget the victims of asbestos, who have also joined all groups in this Parliament, but who had been relegated to the PP veto box in the Congress of Deputies. For them, too, this change of Government was necessary to lift the veto that slows down the responses they need. As the change of government in Spain required the thousands of Basque public employees; they needed it to eliminate the veto that prevented the recovery of their purchasing level. It also unites us with a shared will to strengthen our social protection system, a model in which the rest of the communities are seen. Because, with all its gaps, we know that investment in income guarantee income has been one of the best we have made as a society. That model requires an update, and there is a proposal on the table. A proposal to get more money to more homes and more eagerly where there are minors and pensioners, so that no one who needs it will be left without it, so that no one who does not need it will be left with a euro, and above all, so that fewer people will need it every time because we are able to recover for employment those who have been stuck in unemployment for years and because we are fighting the precariousness of the workers who must complete their wages; that is the challenge, and we have a pending debate in this House. I would like to thank EH Bildu for asking to postpone this procedure last June instead of throwing away the proposal. It is never a good idea to slap the government in the face of people, and I hope that all groups will be aware of what we have in our hands. On the socialist side they know – because we have transmitted it to you – of the sincere will to reach agreements also in this. A socialist will also contrasted to achieve at once a public audiovisual system in which everyone, without exception, feels recognized. A large majority of those who are here belong to the parties that have just promoted the path to the end of sectarianism and manipulation in RTVE, which is also of the Basques, and should be an acquittal to foster consensus in the comprehensive reform of EITB. As we expect budgetary agreements, open to all groups, without exclusions or vetoes. Nor has there been in the previous two years, and there will be no in these. And we have a good foundation, a project with defined objectives, greater resources to guarantee public services, the drive of the economy to face the technological, demographic and environmental challenges we have. We have more resources, because the land has been narrowed down to those who escape their responsibility, thanks to the plan to combat tax fraud that we promoted five years ago, and because they pay more those who have more income, thanks to the latest tax reform and our proposal to raise the minimum in societies. In the new accounts we want to incorporate the contributions of those who want to direct those resources to those things that we agree here every week. Because no one is hiding from us who are looking at clouds of uncertainty in the global economy, in which we also participate from Euskadi. And it is essential that we strengthen our strengths as a society, cohesion and the capacity to transform our economy. That is why it is so important that we continue to gain ground for research and innovation. That is why it is so important that we have reordered the different ways to support our companies, to help finance them, to commit them to rooting out in this land, and to be more effective with subsidies. That is why it is so important that we also consolidate how we are making the tourism industry an attractive and value-added, with a proposal that convinces those who visit us to stay longer, that creates stable employment, that lives with the environment, with those who live in our towns and cities and with the environment. A sector that has made a leap in quality by an unequivocal political bet and because we have managed to erase the mark of terror that ETA printed for half a century. That mark has disappeared from the outside today, but here, at home, we still have ETA's print. They expect victims to admit that the pain they caused was most unfair. They hope that those who lost their relatives, those who threatened them, did not resist their pressure, and had to leave. They expect to be attacked in municipal gatherings, cops, judges, reporters, corporations, teachers... and it's clear that there's no reason why there are no political projects that can justify terror, kidnapping and murder. And it is necessary to know the truth. The family of Huberto Fuz, of Jorge Garcí, of Fernando Quiroga, of Edwardo Bergarga, of the New House of José Miguel, so that they may know where their relations are. Public institutions must work so that no one will be proud of having taken away a life, and it is necessary that the victims should be admitted and observed. All the victims. Because the rule of law endured and defeated those who wanted to take it down, thanks to police officers and justice professionals. And the rule of law is strengthened when it recognizes its flaws and corrects them. And that is the best foundation for coexistence: that those of us who represent the citizenry should be strong and clear to say that no one should have been threatened, kidnapped, tortured, murdered, neither by ETA, nor by ETA's excuse; that the damage caused has been as useless as it is unjust, and that we commit ourselves to building a future in which we assume our plurality, the plurality of our society, as one of our main riches. That would be a real historic day. Because the historical days, the historical agreements, are those that add up to different, because we can all together move forward on shared projects. In 1936, MP Prieto proposed to MP Aguirre to channel Euskadi's autonomy so that we could all together embark on a new path of concord. And so, PSOE and PNV joined the Communist Party, the Republican and ANV in a project that for the first time joined Basques from different territories. That's historic. History was the day when the Rubial Lehendakari and the Garaikoetxea Lehendakari celebrated together in La Casilla the yes to the Statute of Gernika, and together with them UCD and Euskadiko Ezkerra. History was the day when the Health Act was passed in Spain, which established the right to health, which we immediately developed here in Euskadi with a very innovative system of our own. History was when we got the Basque public school to be the axis of the right to education, when we passed the Income Guarantee Income Law or the Housing Law; when we passed the Euskera Law on Normalization of Use, which has made the Basque language known to more people than ever before in our history. And history was the day we got ETA to stop killing. Those are historic days. And in all of them we have been the Socialists. But they are not historical because we have been, but because we and others understood what was important. What he achieves is that he improves people's lives, what he gains are rights and freedoms for the benefit of all, nationalists and non-nationalists, come from where they come from and feel how they feel. That is why it will be historic the day when we can renew our project of coexistence to improve people's lives and, as in the past, for nationalists and non-nationalists, come from where they come and feel how they feel. And we believe that it is possible to do so. We believe that it is possible to broaden rights and broaden consensus. We believe that it is possible to move a project into the future in which no one has to feel excluded. An inclusive and inclusive project. A viable project for citizens to understand that this debate before us was important because it really protects their rights and opens up a new time of coexistence between the Basques and the rest of Spain, within the European Union. It's past the phase of punctuating our differences. We know what they are. We have not taken the opportunity to try to find coincidences, but the time will come for the responsibility of each group, because it is our responsibility, that of those who occupy these seats, to offer a proposal that puts our self-government in the twenty-first century and that can be put into practice. Those who embarked on the project in the 36th were right. Those who did it in '78 and '79, too. Who we are in 2018 we must be able to hit. Of course, the Socialists are prepared to do that. We have an opportunity that we do not want to miss, because, as I have been recounting in this intervention, it is much that unites us and that is where we want to focus on this course that begins. 40 years ago, the United States of Guernica gave us a scope for living, and today we have a chance to develop and modernize that medium. And it's possible. It's possible to save a smoke that doesn't reject. It is possible that the eucalycals re-entering an integrated, inclosive project, because we've achieved it in the past, because we're opening a new time for the agreement in Spain and Euskakia won't be able to stay on the side. We Socialists have a purpose to regain the greatest patrimony of our political culture, for it is a great deal that unites us, and it is a responsibility for us all, not to lose that opportunity. We do not want to give up our most recent past, which has made Euskadi what we are. We have never been more than now, so the looks to the past, to centuries past, cannot be dominated by an unwarranted melancholy, and if in the last decades we have been many and different and have been able to unite our forces in much worse conditions to bring the country forward, today it has to be much easier for us. The Socialist Group decided that this legislature should regain the political culture that illuminated the modern Euskadi, the Euskadi that we have inherited, the Euskadi that recognizes its plurality, the Euskadi proudly because we all agree to ensure a society of free and equal men and women, to guarantee the public services that make possible the rights of all; able to transform, to prepare for the challenges of the future. An Euskadi who wants to welcome those who are looking for an opportunity from other lands, who need us to coordinate effectively all the institutions, because we need them, because immigration is not a problem, it is a challenge to which we have to respond. And we don't want to talk about quotas, we want to talk about solidarity. A Euskadi that wants to remain integrated into a Europe threatened by those who raise walls of fear and grievances, by those who commit themselves to new borders and which requires more than ever wills of joint progress, shared responsibilities, collaboration to guarantee our rights and diversity. A Euskadi in which, as the rubial lehendakari longed, we all felt protected, let us think how we thought and were born where we were born. And that Euskadi needs this Parliament to know how to give him answers and set priorities. Ours for this year are the achievement of equality, the recovery of quality employment from innovation and the fight against labour fraud, the development of acquired rights, the empowerment of young people, the strengthening of income-guarantee income and the full guarantee of plurality. We all belong to these priorities, and my group is committed to this task also in this course that we are starting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Next, together with the spokesmans of the Podemos. Mr. Hernández will begin and Mr. Martín will finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u8	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. President. For Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and for the whole of our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos, the biggest problem we have in Euskadi right now is the precarious living conditions of working people, which is, by the way, in our opinion the real social majority of the country. Euskadi is retreating to that majority who continues to see his life getting harder, with worse jobs, worse paid, with more overtime, with fewer rights and more danger to his health. A particularly serious situation in the case of women, where precariousness and the wage gap have unfortunately become a distinctive mark of Euskadi. The living conditions of that working majority have worsened alarmingly and without pause in recent years, without this Government having done anything to prevent it. On the contrary, every agreement and tribute given to the patrician has been stabbed at the conditions of the euscals, which constitute the majority of society. Its objective to reduce the unemployment rate by 10% is a trap for women workers in this town. It's a trap because it's only being possible to hit job trash, precarious and without rights. Jobs that do not allow to pay rent, that do not give opportunity to emancipate to youth or that do not allow to have a decent pension. Mr Lehendakari, your speech is so full of plans, programs and government actions as a void of solutions for that majority of "currels". And it is that today you, rather than lehendakari, that of the Basques and the Basques, at the stroke of agreements with Confebask seem rather the lehendakari of the employer. We believe that the contempt and ill-treatment of the trade unions in this country by this Government is unacceptable. It is ill-treatment to scratch the anti-democratic sometimes, to the point that some union has denounced its policies before the courts. We workers in this country deserve something else. We deserve a government that admits we're the majority. We deserve a government and a lehendakari that have as a priority to fight against almost six million hours of overtime, against 92% of temporary contracts or against the unacceptable 25% increase in deaths in the trench. A government that puts itself on the bottom rather than the top side. And to reality I refer, Mr Lehendakari: our society is strongly mobilized in a period of supposed economic recovery, which is often not normal. Women are overflowing the streets. Labour conflicts continue to increase and the pensioner movement is on the warpath, defending public pensions and also rejecting its private EPSV model that will never be available to everyone, that will weaken the public system and that are only a good business for the bank. And it is not a problem of lack of resources, it is a problem of distribution of wealth. This government has put an unfair tax model at the service of the elites, it has agreed with the People's Party; a model that penalizes the income of labour against the income of capital. A pristine example, that a few may have great profits, which leaves all of them in private hands. And these kinds of politics are the origin of the corruption we are afterwards acquainted with. This Government acts to dictate the interests of the elites, embodied to a large extent in Euskadi in the employer's office, and puts the country's resources at the service of the interests of capital. This is the only way to understand the agreement for employment signed by the Basque Government and Confebask behind the backs of the workers, a blatant demonstration, in our view, of how to make policies at the service of the powerful. In short, this Government is using our capacity for self-government, of which they speak so much, to put the country's resources at the service of the elites and against the general interest of the social majority. Meanwhile, his own party intends to give us lessons in national sovereignty on a daily basis. The debate on self-government and new statutes cannot cover up the shame of the country and the errors of the Government. Of course it is necessary to talk about superfluousness and to improve our self-interest, but to serve the rights and interests of the workers who form the majority, not to serve the elites, or to conceal the real affairs of our country. Because tomorrow, Mr Lehendakari, we can be an autonomous community, a federated nation or an independent state, we can have bilateral relations with the state or multilateral in a federal or confederal republican state. For that you can count on us, and you know what my opinion is. But as long as government policy is at the service of the elites there will be no popular sovereignty for this people. And for that, of course, don't count on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Next, Mr. Martinez. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u10	Good afternoon, everyone. Madame President, members of the legislature, Mr. President. After hearing Mr. Urkullu today, any one would say that our fellow Basques live in a happy Arcadia in a real oasis. There is almost no unemployment described in this government, and no young man is forced to live in his father's house or his mother's house because it is a luxury to rent a house. Social Desparation? What's that? The difference between women and men? We're worldwide reference! A widow and pensioner with a minimum pension? They've got a life of luxury. Government, model of all virtues. And listen, no one would say that there are half a dozen mayors, nor any other handful of high-ranking health officials, all of them from the Basque Nationalist Party, convicted of corruption. Nor are there 26 other charges, also of the Basque Nationalist Party, charged with corrupt plots in Araba. What's up, staff imaginations! The truth is that it is still curious that this Government, at a time of greater parliamentary and political weakness, is raising itself in this plenary with this arrogance and this lack of humility. Of course, it's to make him look at it. Have you ever seen the Simpsons, Mr. Lehendakari? If you were here today, Homer Simpson, I would tell you that you live in the house of the gominola, on the street of the lollipop. You've moved from Ajuria Enea, you haven't told anyone. Because, honestly, there's no way to understand how you've been able to climb up to this rostrum and paint that Euskadi candy. But let no one make a mistake: the reality is not the opposite either. Euskadi is not a disaster. The reality of our country is neither the country of candy of the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Socialist Party, nor much less a black well. Not at all. And if there are things that go moderately well, it is not precisely because of the merit of this government. It is thanks to the people who work and care, to the autonomous people who raise the blind every day, to the families who work miracles with the family budget, to the young people who innovate and undertake, to our elderly people who help their children, daughters and grandchildren, and to the women who go out on the street to claim their rights. But despite all this effort by so many people, there are still problems in Euskadi. The president's business today of his country. He who has deliberately forgotten about problems known to any poor citizen, does not make those problems disappear. Even if the president doesn't want to accept, a lot of Eukadin things are wrong, and some of them are just because of his inability. They're in trouble, you know, and some of these problems are very serious. But I will tell you more: it is not that you are not aware of the problems. Of course you know them! What happens is not that they don't want to recognize them, they want to forget them. And you know why? Because you are fully aware that you are a government with no solutions, and today you have preferred to fall into self-congratulation rather than acknowledge your inability. The lack of solution which the President shows in his practice has painted to us a beautiful Basque who hasn't got a problem and hasn't the slightest sign of self-critics. The President came today to sell a plubre report nobody believes in, the portrait of a Basque who is not true. That's it, or maybe the lehendakari has a serious memory problem, maybe that's it. Maybe it's all a memory problem, and they just need to take some ginseng. But don't worry, that here is the Basque left, here is Elkarrekin We can tell you about the real problems, the daily life of Basque citizenship. And not only that, but we are also going to put solutions on the table, which are missing from this government. Let's start with a review of the long list of oblivions and some shy lehendakari whisper. Let's start with the Navy. Another year, a year later, La Naval, with problems and no solutions. The largest shipyard in Euskadi, a key company to support the small remaining industry in the Left Margin, one of the regions most affected by unemployment, which does not exist in Mr Urkullu's Euskadi. I don't know, will it be that for the lehendakari the Naval or Sestao is on Mars, because he has forgotten that he is one step away from disappearing and taking thousands of jobs ahead, thousands. It is clear that PNV and PES are distressed by the thousands and thousands of families, who are suffering from the threat of the closure of their livelihoods, bring them without care, do not take them into account, nor do they dare to mention them. Elections are coming, and photos will be taken there, promising "gold and black," but in the Left Margen they know that PNV and PES never fulfill anything they promise. Clearly, this Government is letting La Naval die, it is not moving a finger to rescue it. I hope it's not because of some kind of collusion between the PNV and Ingeteam, one of La Naval's main shareholders. But let's not get into bad blood with the abandonment of this Basque industry government and talk about something a little bit nicer now. What do you say we talk about the corruptes of the PNV, which splash this government? A theme! As the President has not said a word about it, one may imagine that clergyism and corruption have nothing to do with this government. Nay, who would think that all this has a very close connection with the Jelt Party of the Eusia! But the reality is not that of the forgetfulness of the lehendakari; on the contrary, it is that of the succession of sentences, the cases and the commissions of inquiry that sprinkle it. And they're splashing at him, but good, too! On a recurrent basis, Mr Erkoreka, spokesman for the Government, is trying – without much success, everything must be said – to say that they are isolated cases, which do not affect the Government, and even less the Basque Nationalist Party. But, of course, then one sees that 26 senior PNV positions in Araba are charged by the De Miguel case, which in the Margüello case are positions of the Government of Ibarretxe, which in the case of the purines of Karrantza is the mayor, a councillor of the PNV and another high office of the Government of Ibarretxe. And that there are also so many other mayors, also of the PNV – causality –, condemned for all kinds of very ugly things (Bakio, Alonsotegi and a long list). Horrek isolateutatako kasuen itxura gutxi izango balu bezala, lehendakari jauna. Kontuz, look out. Sagar usteletako saskiak henezka dagoen itxura ematen du, esta? Any citizen would say that the measures against corruption should be increased. But the president and the government don't say a word about this. The government doesn't have anything to say about it, does it? Well, maybe yes, perhaps among all the rumbling name plans that the lehendakari has quoted this morning has overlooked, the one that applies to his imputed party friends and that goes mysteriously putting them in Basque public enterprises. We need to talk about cycling. There's no way we can talk about the general Osacidian work offering. Scandal! Well, it's impossible for any normal person except the president. He didn't even mention it. There's no such thing. It's because he doesn't care about his government. It may be because this government has no responsibility, because it has no explanation and has no moderation to take. After the greatest fraud in the history of our country has occurred in front of his nose. Is there really nothing, absolutely nothing, that this lehendakari wants to say to the thousands of Basques and Basques who lost their time studying for rigged and divided oppositions among friends in the form of overcites? Really, do not allow, Mr Urkullu, your silence to make you complicit in this fraud. Or maybe this government is just thinking about how to hide this scandal under the carpet. The slogan looks like "Let's go fast." Perhaps for this purpose Mr Darpón and Mrs Múgica have thought of some new form of harassment and destruction against those exemplary professionals who have denounced these irregularities. More forgotten. You're going to need a lot of ginseng, Mr. Urkullu, but you've also forgotten about housing. Of course, it must be that in your caramel Euskadi rental prices are not stratospheric and inaccessible to most youth in this country. But reality is clumsy. Two data. The first: 135,000 people in Euskadi have problems paying mortgage or rent. The second fact is that you like these, those who compare us with Europe: we are five points above the European Union in the case of young people who are not emancipated from their families. In his Euskadi candy, 71.5% of the youth could not emancipate, but better not to incorporate this data into that list so good that he told us this morning, lest they spoil the photo. I'll ask you a simple question: Should your government continue to act as a passive spectator while the young and not the young become a luxury? Or maybe you can repeat it this year and then Arrila will file a new plan of housing that doesn't have much budget. Because Basque youth do not go away, policies that their government does not do are throwing away. What is Euskadi offering you, Mr Lehendakari: a job of garbage and impossible rents? I forget about forgetfulness, Mr Lehendakari, you have not said anything about job insecurity. He talks about lowering unemployment, but what doesn't count is that he drops it at a time when he's working trash, on temporary contracts and part-time. Today, in its country of lollipop, more than half of the contracts have a duration of less than one month. Up to 40% of them are part-time. 92% temporary, almost six million hours extra. Will the government take any real initiative or will Mrs Tapia continue to recommend that our young people go away to seek opportunities? And for people over 45 who are unemployed and long-term unemployed? But, look, today there's a particularly hurtful oblivion. It's just that I don't quote the 25 people killed in work accidents. 25 avoidable deaths. Avoidable, among others, with greater control and surveillance by this Government. 25 people who have died for exercising their right to employment do not deserve a single word from this lehendakari? The truth is, seeing today's forget list of the lehendakari, I'm really starting to worry about his memory. Today, trying to get medals, talking about the goals he achieves, he has forgotten to talk about one: commitment number six of his government plan, which is to promote social dialogue, which by naming it already sounds a bit funny. Mr Lehendakari has the most dubious honour of having disrupted the social dialogue. Perhaps it has something to do with this PNV and PSE government's hobby of meeting with Confebask and signing treason agreements with the employer, after lowering taxes to the big employer, with the help of Mr Alonso, taking pictures with them every week and giving them a good piece of the Vocational Training cake. In the end, as they continue to do, in the new statute, of course, they will end up shielding historical rights, yes, but those of Iberdrola, those of Petronor and those of Kutxabank on the Euskadi media. By the way, Mr. Urkullu, you forgot to tell us something about your new initiative in the anti-democratic attacks against the unions. I mean the unions that make your government uncomfortable. Is there anything new about it that you don't want to meet with them, not only by publicly threatening and pursuing with the prosecutors? To introduce yourself as the king of the interview, you don't do much in social conversation. Because dialogue, dialogue and more dialogue is what this country needs. And little dialogue is found in this country in its government, Mr Lehendakari. We need dialogue between Basques and Basques to lay the foundations for our coexistence. We need dialogue on self-government. We need dialogue on peace and coexistence. We need dialogue on language policies. We need dialogue because this country, our Euskadi, is neither built against anyone nor leaving anyone out. And, above all, dialogue is needed because it is possible to reach agreements, but we must want these broad, plural and cross-cutting agreements. If we need to establish the normalization of the use of our own language, we must form the use of the support, the use of our country, of our villages, and of more villages, such as, within the sphere of work, within the field of leisure, and so on. And that is why we must arrive at the agreements to improve our laws, decrees, and language policies. Believe me, when I tell you that we extend your hand to make an agreement in this circle. And we need agreements on peace, on memory, on historical memory and on recent memory. In the historical memory to accommodate the initiatives of all groups, and not just those of the Government. So that nobody's memory stays buried in the gutter. That also requires dialogue. And what should I tell you about the memory of the last time? More interviews still. It is a great challenge: to create a perfectly democratic partnership, to build upon the firm and firm foundation of human rights, to delegate all manner of violence, to signify solidarity to the two kinds of terrorism and violence. To say that all acts of violence were unjust, without justification, cruel, useless, and mean, no one had ever had to happen. Never. We have to surrender and finally acknowledge all the victims of police abuse, take the prisoner's approach and secure the social agreement for prisoners. We can all be together. Mr. Urkullu, we can meet in a large and varied arrangement. We need interviews and agreements about auto-generacy, and we must establish plural and indirect foundations for the entire Basque society, without exception, leaving no one outside, leaving no one aside, with respect to identity, the transfer of associations which have not been given for 40 years. That's possible, Mr. President. It's possible if there's a will to make deals. If there is any intention of obtaining extensive agreements, plurals, and indirects. A new, socially advanced status is possible, which recognizes us as a nation, inclusive of identity and legal. It is possible to move forward with a clear-cut pact that, when appropriate, offers democratic channels without any kind of social fracture to decide on the territory. A legal channel, a bilateral channel and a negotiated channel. That is why, once again, with light and tachographs, the Basque left again put solutions. Let us open two parallel tables, let us not mix the debates: one for the statute and one for a pact of clarity to the Canadian. His party did not want to, but it is in his hand to rectify and undo the mischief in which Mr Egibar has placed the new statute. And you are in time, Mr Lehendakari, to stop caressing debates and to push for a cross-cutting agreement. Push him starting with his party, the Basque Nationalist Party. And please don't go to 1839 and let's think of solutions in the 21st century and not the 19th century. Mr Lehendakari, you have spoken that the Spanish State must recognize its plurinational character. 100 % of the agreement, no doubt. Let's do it together. But listen, at the same time, neither before nor after you and your party apply the story here and also acknowledge that this country is plural, diverse, and must remain so. In addition to requiring others to recognize the evident plurinationality of the Spanish State, you should apply a little more in recognizing and assuming the plurality of our Euskadi. And it's just that if something has become clear in these months is that Elkarrekin We can have a social and economic model, an ecological and feminist model. And that same Basque left we have a project of country in the territorial and inclusive and democratic in the identity, and that we defend it loud and clear, that we do not have complexes or prejudices in saying no to exclusionary identities, maximalisms or even rollers, and that we do not have complexes or prejudices to say yes when the agreement allows for a broad, plural and cross-cutting agreement as was that of citizenship rights. Today we, Podemos, left Euscal, are ready to offer plural interviews and agreements and inclusives as regards the life of this country. And in the field of social, economic, environmental, or feminism, we do it without mortgage, conditioned, or rejected opposition to your government. Because despite offering him a pact of coexistence, we are not going to stop confronting him in social terms. I have to keep pointing out that list of oblivions I've started with. In education he has forgotten to talk about school segregation, he has forgotten the situation of public education. Our equal opportunities as a society go through the sinking of school segregation; segregation that has been installed in the Basque educational system for years while PNV and PSE look elsewhere. Mr. Urkullu, would you dare to speak to the people who have ruined the year's work in the ILP here? What are you gonna tell them today? You think it's better to tag private school? Together we have a clear light at Podemus: We're with the public school, and we're also very proud of him and the community he supports. I was telling him it's gonna be a lot of ginseng we need for so many forgets. I don't know if Osakidetza has a budget for so much, but as perhaps you are more of going to the equal, outsourcing, privatization or private, it's not a problem for you. Privatizing, that's what you never forget. They've learned it very well. His Government was the champion of outsourcing and privatization. Let them tell Osakidetza, our public health service, what you euphemistically call the mixed public-private model. It would be interesting to hear you say something about the recent judgment of the High Court of Justice, which has just given them a soup by rejecting their externalisations. Or, on the other hand, we can talk about the clinic of La Asunción in Tolstal, about the constant conflicts in the sanitary transportation, or about the Oncological hospital in Donostia. The triumphalist discourse of this lehendakari seems to have no end. There is also another oblivion, the policies of equality, modeling. What a mess in the base of sandland! No more than 20 years of solution. The village parrok has also gone away, the village parish has gone away, but your head of education remains there, Mme. Uriarte, with the machita. It would be much better to be the greatest problem, but there is more 12 million dollars to the schools of Opuse, which in equality are less than a million dollars, or even to the schools of disseminators of values. You have also come today to take the initiative out of the pay gap, and here I am going to remind you of three things. The first, which was the initiative of my group, Elkarrekin Podemos, not his Government. The second table, which takes up dialogue on the wage gap, met only a couple of times, which has not met for nearly four months and was created in March. The third, which I honestly do not know from which joke you have taken the rabbit that the strategy you are going to present is the result of a participatory process. Mr Lehendakari, look, you may be given little self-criticism, but it is that yours this morning has not had a name. He's forgotten about our pensioners, our elderly people. To quote them in passing is not worth it, Mr. Lehendakari. So scared have you caught them? Although it is true that they have given him more than one disgust with his permanent mobilizations on the street. The problem is obvious. The pension system has difficulties, of course. But, Mr Lehendakari, what solutions do you propose? Are you going to do like Mr. Rementeria and recommend an EPSV and private pension plans? Is this the alternative of PNV and PES for our elderly people? The reality is that this is their alternative to public services, privatization. What you call concerted and public-private systems. More forgotten things. An income to ensure revenues. We've talked about the interview before, and, in fact, it's obvious that this government is suspended in the conversation. There is no conversation about auto-generacy, no conversation with unions, no conversation with pensioners, and there is no reform of rents or professions to guarantee incomes. Hey, my fault. But, well, if I told you before about privatizing, with the RGI, what they do is cut and cut and cut and cut and cut again. The RGI is that completely criminalized benefit, which prompted Mrs. Artolazabal to say one day that with 600 euros she gave to live "in command mother" in Euskadi. They must be things of this country of lollipops in which this government lives, in which the housing, the shopping basket and the bill of light are paid with gominolas and not in euros. Or, if not, let someone explain to me how with 600 euros someone can pay an average rent of 980 euros, a bill of light of 65 euros and a shopping cart of 405 euros. But there are more oblivions, Mr. Urkullu. In the social movements on the Basque left we wondered why whenever your Government and you talk about migrants insist so much that they are passing through, but, listen, they never say that Euskadi is also willing to be a decent host land, and how curious and selective this forgetfulness, Mr Urkullu. And how curious it is that today you are talking about welcoming immigrants and refugees, when your mayors, who are members of your party, such as Mr. Aburto, put fences on the frontlines to prevent citizens from meeting the needs of these people who are fleeing poverty and war and that your Government is being unable to deal properly with the blow of improvisation and empty headlines. This Sunday, this Sunday morning in the Santutxu neighbourhood of Bilbao, 130 people were having breakfast on the street served by a solidarity citizen. That is the true face of the reception of the PNV and its Government. I'm finishing up. Finally, Mr. Urkullu, what you did this morning, really, is amazing. You have come to this complete meeting without any modesty. In this whole meeting, you've reached the middle of the law with the parlamentary minority, with no protection to advance precertinance, with a great deal of trouble about self-organization, because there are no interviews interrupted by the fact that there are no interviews to ensure the revenue and the reform of the profession, the discussion with the unions is completely destroyed, and your party is in a case of corruption (the version of the Jedibet Party) that wet, in the public office offers of Osis, there's been a massive fraud and a lot of social problems. And all this hasn't been given a single solution. And he comes on a proud plan to tell us that he has completed 75% of his government plan. Honestly, I think that not only did he make a mistake in the day to tell us this, he made a mistake in the country. Yours is an imaginary country of lollipop and gominola. The Basque citizenship is a very different one, in which contracts and contracts of misery are chained. In which a rent is luxury, in which the return to school leaves the pockets of the family clean, in which the equality of women is a challenge – as has been seen in Hondarribia – in which our widows and pensioners at least juggling to reach the end of the month; in which education, health and so many other public services are being privatized. Frankly, I hope that you will not find in this House anyone who buys you this damaged goods, because it would be really bad for Euskadi, for the citizenry and for the left, if anyone who swallows this toad is called the left. I tell you more: if at any time you and your Government want to seek support in Elkarrekin We can, on the Basque left, our door is open, but it requires a 180-degree turn in your government action that today, as I see it, I do not see them very willing to undertake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u11	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u12	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, members of the government and all of you who are with us today, all good afternoons. On the street, I want to start on the street today, because this government seems to me a long way from the street, far from reality. The first words I began by proclaiming a feminist government in this atril and I will now say that because thousands of women have proclaimed it in March 8th, and now that we have to keep this proclamation, work, leisure, watch... We have to fill the parties. That is why we can't admit that 15 days ago what happened in the sandland, because it was shameful and shameful. that in the century we can accept such a thing, and that the institutions should act as ostriches. We can't stand being raped or persecuted almost every day. Five women died this year in the Basque Country, but they died by force. We can't stand the difference we experience in all sorts of ways. And I have to stay on the street. I have to keep going because thousands of pensioners have told us that they have difficulty in making a decent life. But they didn't just tell us that our future and the future of our children are on the move too. This is a first subject, and therefore we are sharing our own proposition with all political parties, and with all the agents, the proposition which we have introduced in this part of the legislature, in order to accomplish it. On the street we've seen thousands of people proclaim the rights of the prisoners of euscal this year as a year ago, and we're standing next to them and we're trying to tell these people that they have all our protection. We have also seen thousands and thousands of people in the street calling our Hand-in-law, proclaiming that this people require a right to decide. And for what? Now, in order to give an entire answer to the necessities of our society, we must decide. Because the pensioners, ladies, in the field of employment are at our schools. The more we have the power and the ability to govern ourselves, the better we shall live, and the more we will extend democracy. And I don't want to forget, for instance, that Alfredo Remíz is a weak man, in prison for an opinion. Thousands of emigrants who have come to our country, and I wish to recall thousands of people who live apart from us, many of them in the streets. I want also to remember the workers who have filled the streets, the teachers, the guardians of the provinces, the workers of La Naval or Productos Tubulus. Even those 48 people who have been killed in the Basque Country this year because we won't see them in the street anymore. And I still want to recall, in 2018, the people who are compelled to use the eucalyptus and to talk to us about Spanish. Or the culturers of this country, who live in the best years of eupscal creation, have not difficulty in surviving. "All these [are] the people of Eroscal, and this [is] the people of all. And we don't want to get rid of anyone. And our general reading is that we are losing our chances in the manner of nations and society, but we have also new opportunities of answering them all. This is the sound of the street, and the heart of the Government does not seem to connect with that pulse, so we say that this government has a serious social therapy. The citizens are watching their interests as we live in a series of makeup and marketing operations beyond the great macronomies of the day. For instance, we're told that we've left the economic crisis behind, but did he really stop behind? Economics say that it has been growing, but we are now less poor than 10 years ago, the ability to buy the population is less than ten years ago, the raw internal produc per capita. But in those 10 years, average prices, It cost 15 percent and the light bill cost 30 percent. Unemployment data can also be better, but unemployment doesn't count people who want to work for a few hours and have to content themselves with the contract. The unemployment does not count 800, 900 thousand young people who collect. According to these statistics, they have a chance of living in comfort, but not everyone can hire a rent. They don't have a chance to take it. These are young people from 25 to 35, our children. We told this generation to prepare, to study, to make an effort, that they could get things, but we didn't have their own life contract, and we're all trapped in that pre-eminency and intensity. This concern is all theirs, theirs, ours, our fathers', and our fathers'. And it happens also to our parents that we have to start their custody, so we have an inter-engineical problem in our hands. The point is that the capital has been received by some who have called that recovery, but not by the workers, not by the people. Wealth is no longer to be shaken, and it is a greater and greater crack. And that's not the sign of a healthy economy. And in front of that, the question is clear: Why are we smoking? For, first of all, because some people are content to say that we are at the head of Spain, but what is really serious is that we are at the tail of Europe. The serious thing is that Basque is the community of the State that has lost the greatest purchasing power. That is to say, that those below are stepping more and more on our heels and those above us, the European reference countries, are getting further and further away from us. And in this respect we continue to lose opportunities, because here there is a correlation of forces, unlike Spain, to carry out these policies. A yellow one. And the second reason is that we believe you lack ambition, determination, leadership. The government that governs has been lacking. Sometimes I think that the economic data would be similar even if there had been no government, because of the very fate of the situation. Because a government has an obligation to protect people, to prevent them by the time they stalk the difficulties. To learn from the mistakes of the past. And it has an obligation to remove obstacles, to promote solvent public policies. It has an obligation to question and correct its policies if necessary. It's not enough to take advantage of the tail wind, you have to set the course. No complacency. Instead of waiting for the limits, we must deal with the hinges more definitely. A government incapable of carrying a normal conversation with unions, but who treats any Pathonal sneeze as a neuromony, is not ready to answer the challenge. We can't allow the black economy to look different in front of the covered economy. The more strict measures we must still take, the more accurate measures. As we have said for a long time, sharp and precise measures. The government will have to understand that the increase of taxes is entirely about the workers' necks, because the capital pays less and less, and that it must be put to an end. Let us add more data to those who display the ambition of government, in our opinion: The rate of unemployment is 10% in two years, Germany is 3.4, the United Kingdom 4, Austria, 4,8, Portugal, 6,8. And the goal must be 10%? Well, that's not a challenge. As far as industry is concerned, the objective is to reach 25% in two years. And if we were on last year's data, we were already on 24,2%. Is that what ambition can be? I'd like to talk about the Basque Radio and TV, about that radio I love. As to the answer of its innate ends, as to the performance of public function, and the consideration of the 21st. he has become old enough to face the hinges of the century, and has need of a radical discussion, agreement, and plan. And for that, we need ambition. In fact, ambition is not a function of management or a function of donation. It's a determination to have a superior policy in public politics. It's not enough to manage, we have to lead. A large part of the social investments referred to here today are pure inertia, without clear objectives, without measuring the impact of the investment and in which this Government has not shown the capacity to correct. And it takes determination for all that. And when is a country more capable of answering its hinges suitable to its wants, which may more readily give an answer to the crisis which may attend it? There is in science, intelligence, culture, education, study, and development. The University of the Basque Country, which ought to be the principal pivot of the education, science, and study of this country, still retains the financial funding of justice, almost always choked by an old legal frame. But today the government has told us whether it is already ready for the college plan for the next year. The university doesn't know yet what resources it will have, how it can challenge. I don't know if you remember that time at the Basque Country University. The place where people should go to Salamancara or Valladolid. It was a change. The data of the results of education, the euscalization, and the rest of the schools are disturbing. The stage of efficiency, which we derive from the fact that we are drowned by workers, is more and more acute in the negative sense. But this government had the sector burning for almost a year, because when teachers get sick, they demanded a replacement from the first day. The operators, figures, data, are behind all of them persons, men and women, who are more and more difficult to carry our plans of life forward. It's no coincidence that in education three-year-old children's plates were dropped. There are fewer children, because people have children and have no options, no resources, no nets. And this is a direct consequence of the crisis, a direct consequence of the preventive, a direct consequence of the establishment. The conditions of life are more and more intense, and it becomes very clear of this fact. And we're losing confidence in the future. And we cannot afford to live in a society that is afraid of the future. We women and men in this country have the right, we must have it, to have our own life plan, to aspire to better welfare quotas. We cannot settle in the resignation, in the conformism that denotes the description that this morning has made the lehendakari. We need certainties, and not only help, we need well-designed public policies that guarantee a dignified life, designed for times of good times, but also for when the situation gets complicated, to face challenges as pressing as the demographic, that not by much talk will be solved. Public policies must ensure equal opportunities to avoid any discrimination by being young, or by being somewhat older, or by being women, or by the origin of people, but also to avoid any suspicion of favouritism, corruption and plugging. And it's important to stop and think about the quality of society we have. We cannot allow the idea to be set up in a society like Basque that according to which tree you hold the shadow that covers you is better or worse. And unfortunately, there are a lot of people who think that, and it's that very ugly things are popping up. And I'm talking about the Miguel case, or the Hiriko case, or the Carranza purine plant. Cases where senior management officials are involved, with behaviors we will say neither exemplary nor ethical. Nor is the process carried out in Osakidetza's public employment offer exemplary. The management has been bad. And don't let this Government think that it won't have to assume its political responsibilities in this regard. I repeat, you will have to assume your political responsibilities in this regard, because, if you do not, we will force you to do so. There are suspicions of rigging, of weaving by senior officials of the Administration. Therefore, to ensure transparency, the legitimacy of our political institutions, we believe that a process of democratic regeneration is necessary. We will not consent to live in a society in which clientelism and plug-in are protected by action or omission, let alone humiliation. And I repeat again: the humiliation of women like the one who lived 15 days ago in Hondarribia. Herritarrak ez daude edozer irensteko loan. Horregatik, garrantzitsua da kalea ezagutzea, to know the reality on the street and not to stay with the vision offered by the employer, the pressure groups or the reports of consultancies that hide interests that do not agree with those of the citizenry. There is no people, no people without a citizen. And it's the people that's showing us the way. They're the chief subject of the Basque People Collect, and that's where we've been working all year, and that's what we're going to do. And that is why this parliament has been proposed to restore the euscal system of social services. Or the idea of establishing a social certificate for business, or the desire to guarantee workers in all public contracts at least 1,200. We'll continue to show the way as we have been, because most of the significant improvements of the past two years have been completed by the Basque People's initiative. And it's an example of employment. We are working to achieve a country that knows how to meet the challenge of ecological transition. We don't want to talk about incinerators or trains that don't go anywhere. We work to have a country with a productive model based on an advanced industry, based on an R & D investment that accounts for at least 3% of GDP. A country that generates and distributes wealth in a just and sustainable way, which guarantees housing, jobs, wages and decent pensions for all and for all. A country with an educational system that conforms to a cultured, critical and capable society to face the economic and social challenges of the twenty-first century. A citizenship where women feel free and emancipated. An educational system of which the Public University is the flagship. A country that leaves no one behind, that conceives inclusion as an inalienable right, articulated around the public social service system with a system of collective protection that allows us to look in the mirror as a society and see the reflection of a modern collectivity that cares for its citizenship. There is no agreement in education, there is no education project for this country, and they're just pseudo-members that we're dealing with. We want public policies for good living, we seek a system of state-of-the-art social services and rights, financed by a progressive fiscal policy, which allows people to choose family and life projects. A country that takes care of its young people, trains them and gives them opportunities for emancipation. A free people to decide their present and their future, who have the tools to be able to develop policies that they determine democratically without being imposed on us from the outside or how or how we have to do things. In the responsibility to offer this people a future of hope, it is essential that we have all the necessary instruments in hand and have our own voice in the world. Joseph Stigliz, the nobel prize of the economy, says that the nations which best oppose the generalization are those who have taken the future in their hands, and are therefore states. The Spanish State has lasted for many years to prevent any obstacle in the hands of the Euscal auto-engerine. Sometimes in the form of organic laws, sometimes by the narrow interpretations of the Constitutional Court, the Euscal Autonomy of the Estria, has been deprived of political abilities, without the ability to develop the public policies which the citizens require, and of which the State of Guernica acknowledges them all. And still more after the sentence against 2011 of the State of Catalonia. And again the president hopes that he resumes Guernica's State. It's been researched, almost 40 years, and that's what we can be sure of. I don't know if you think they'll complete it, Mr. President. And it's not about putting political agendas before social agendas, because social is political. I will say more: there is nothing more political than the social. Turn to precariousness, turn to misery or labor slavery, guarantee decent wages and pensions. To this end, what needs to be changed is the model of relationship with the State. And in this context, we in this Parliament have found that progress can be made in a remarkable way, that progress can be made in a remarkable way when there is political will to do so. We have agreed on the basis for reform of self-government that collects the essential rights so that people can face the future with hope. It's a deal, it's a good deal, it's a future basis. It is a good arrangement, because it shows that other alliances, more extensively, are possible; It is a good deal, because it answers to the majority of this people, to the left-to the right. It is a good deal to conclude by this new state that we are all able to defend and carry on our political project in a state of equality. It is a good agreement because it connects with the majority will of this people. We want to decide here to live better. Political civil rights, national rights, social rights are intrinsically united, cannot be divided, cannot be disconnected. That is why they appear together in all the constitutions of the world. I will give you an example: if we want our pensioners to receive a minimum pension of €1,080, we need to manage Social Security here, with our rules. Not having Social Security means not being able to decide on our economic contingencies. We've lost control of our public assets. It means not having the capacity to affect a third of our finances, of our wealth. It means not being able to decide on about 8 billion euros. What is not worth making is a long list of social rights and then saying that we cannot guarantee them because Spain or Madrid does not leave us. That's cheating on the loner. Our aim is an independent and independent Basque people, the object of the Basque Country of the United States, and the settlements which may be obtained during the interval will be temporary for us. And therefore we believe that any new state ought to receive a confession from the Basque People, and consequently that it must remain established that the Basque People have the right to govern themselves, and consequently the right to determine their own future. We're talking about democracy and freedom. To those who speak of imposition I want to say that it does not impose those who ask for freedom, it imposes those who deny it; it does not impose those who choose to respect the will of the people, it imposes those who do not allow people to express themselves. Otherwise, suppressing and using force against reasonable demands made in a peaceful and democratic manner is a clear abuse of power, incompatible with a democracy in the twenty-first century. Gehiengoak onartutako akordioa dakkagu, ezberdinen artean akordatutako oinarriak dauzkagu. Horregatik galdetu nahi difuut, lehendakari zuri, zer esan nahi duzun, what do you mean when you talk about guaranteeing the institutional path of this majority agreement, why do you think this majority agreement cannot have it, what prevents it from having an institutional path, beyond the political will. Democracy and freedom, as has hitherto been done, the Basque People will maintain the wager of dialogue and agreement, but let us understand what these two important concepts mean, and understand what the agreement means. The interview first requires interlocutors of the same rank. Una éción maybe we can. In the case of Pedro Sánche, we have just seen him at the next meeting with the President Urkullu, he decided to assemble a committee of huddler transfers, to form a group to examine the penance of politics, and to remove the remedy against those who had been the victims of the police. But for the moment, what? For now, few things. To change the relationship model is therefore necessary, to act exactly the same. That's the dialogue, and if anyone wants to say an interview to the schema, we have a problem with the concept, and it's not a small problem. We know the outcome of the old recipes, and we need new solutions, so new recipes, new options. And we have new options. So, dialogue yes, I agree yes. All the dialogue with the firm will to reach the best possible agreements, but having very clear the noble meaning of both concepts, which cannot be confused neither with subordination, nor with submission, much less with turning one of the parties into the co-worker of the other. I'm beginning to talk about human rights and I want to end up like this. The Basques live a time of choice after they've destroyed it. From the international conference a new era has been opened to us: what has become of us is life and peace, and we are making our way, and the Basque Country is there. And in this construction of life we must all travel. Thus it is impossible to understand why the Spanish Government has not advanced any further in the affair of political prisoners. He foretold the measures, but he didn't. Before the law, too, new conditions have been insisted on, and the condition set has not been changed, they are preserved. Those who have filled the three-quarters of them who are sick, from over 70 years old... They need to be on the street. The law must be fulfilled and it must end with dispersion. Therefore, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, keep to the word they have given, irtenbideak berahalakoa izan behar duelako. On the other hand, this people has bet on human rights. Complicated among the people is becoming more and more extensive. In the Basque Country truth, justice, and observation for all the victims, and all the human rights for the future to all the people, we did on Saturday at the Reform until the 20th of October, the present day, and more. Of the egin nahi dizuet honengatik guztiagatik herritarren interestk benetan serious hartzera, because the maraña of economic data, indicators, rates... they cannot hide the reality, because for the men and women of this country, their dreams and their needs and their desires and their difficulties are much more than just numbers. Let us not lose sight of the fact that there are many people who feel cheated by the institutions, who are about to lose hope, as sociological studies warn us, although, in truth, I believe that fortunately we live in a country with a strong social movement, with a strong trade union movement, with a strong neighborhood, feminist, cultural movement... We have a great country. Aukera handiak ditugu, aukera, baliabide and potentiality isugarria dugu herri gisara. But this minority Government has no ambition or determination at this time to solve the real problems of citizenship. He hasn't put them on our table. And it is important to take citizenship seriously, because promoting resignation only leads to the rise of phylofascist populisms, as we are seeing in much of Europe. That's why I want to ask you to put the interests of the citizenry above anyone else. The Basque Country will be assembled to be popular, I repeat it over and over again, and to-day I repeat: The Basque People will be gathered there to make popular demands. We are ready to put our country's interests first. We believe that these are crucial moments, when we must act with a high eye and with leadership. We have a chance from a past treaty, from a worn-out country project, and from a worn frame, to begin a path full of possibilities, and our hand is extended. We are ready here, and now to make new foundations of the future, strong, serious, and serious. We are prepared to do better, to offer better services to the people, to give them a future of hope to the people in order to contribute to our contributions. But the current bipartisan government is a waste to our country. We urge you to be in the village view and to be the height of the people. Less offices and more villages, fewer sketches and more politics, fewer techniques and more interactions, fewer pasts and more futures, fewer conformisms and more specific characteristics. Let us be honest with the people, and place the interests of the people above all others, to make a free people composed of free persons. We have a fine neighbourhood, and our ancestors are not less deserving of it, and our successors do not expect less from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u14	Good afternoon. Then they say that these plunes are of no use; at least you have explained a great deal to me. You guys, with your last lecture, a lot of things. That's what they said and they didn't say. But, well, we've come here after two years from the hands of the government program, he's reported what you've done, and his plans and projects for the next two years have also been explained to us. How many laws have been admitted (three), how many there are in the course of two years (other nine). I mean, all of them, the President has explained exactly the size of the strategic plan... ; it has been self-critic, it has also confessed privations, and, well, we have the data here, the growth, the preventives. And I think there's a clabe here. The President says, "Lina on the ground," and, well, we've got problems, and it's usually politics, not only to confess, but to make the best of them. This is the question of how it is done, and where the priorities are placed, isn't it? But I said at noon, it's very simple to say, "You haven't invented anything." That's hard to say. Lander himself said, "Well, I'm not going to say that everything's going wrong, maybe not about the government's merit, but some things are doing better by themselves." But to say, "Well, it's all wrong," in making that investigation, that conclusion is very symplistic. And here I put an example, and it is: You take a picture of this town from a satellite and you'll see a point there, but you get closer and you cross to another scale, 1:10.000, and 1:500, and then you see your country. And for the best, or for the worse, it's a sin that the scale he uses is a human scale, a 1:1, a human race. And there are many troubles, the younger and the oldest, the most hopeless, the most retired, the pensioners, and others who are not employed, or who have interests. It's all about doing politics and politics, among other things, what this lawman has to decide, even when he comes here from the right hand of you, as far as this Chamber comes. But what he does is sleepin' human being. Two years ago, I'm telling you the option of the two budgets, the choice of the two budgets, why, in the end, you're brought in by a budget, your resources, of course, but if it's yours or our resources, it's the 11th of next October, I think the Basque Financial Council will decide what money it has to spend on every institution. And that's where we have to establish deficit, debt, stability, priorities... The President himself spoke of it: We've kept investments frozen in some way because we have to face other priorities. And now, 7%, 5% I don't know what to raise, like innovation, or because it's all underrated or investments. But that's the first thing to do. And there's, for me, reactions about it. And here, I think, I don't ask for information, I think they've been given. I think they spoke clearly. Popptic sect, well, I think he has another precondition, and his bitterness is, and I've seen Alfonso Alonsus in a rage. Well, in the end a claube has moved his political position, and on the 10th day, as he has said, it has passed from the fact that the Jestizant of the Eukal Party has accepted the presusutypes, and Rajoy is not in his place, and the march of Rajoy has completely conditioned his political position and his speech, I believe. But here Podemos has also shown what strategy he will develop towards us, but he has concluded very little. Maybe, I don't know, you'll have the chance to concentrate on the second session or the following plinoes, but we've got the budget. And this, I don't say from an emergency plan, saying, "We have a ballfall." And we said, too: If we are to promote it, the world will not remain for that, but we know that the admission does not only lead to the counting, but a multiplication process, which has a force to accept the Presuputies, and to accept all the institutions of the Basques, including the division, and the municipal assemblies, if the funds are approved, will give a stronger progress than if they are not allowed. That's clear. And, well, what I've seen is the attitude that EH Collect has taken. 'Tis often said, "to proceed from Words," but to-day hath been a discourse made from a Vision. It has been descriptive, it has been descriptive to say that this government has no ambition, that it is asleep, encephalogram plane Encephalogram plane. So, when you say that, you say, "Well, what's the purpose of these people looking at the future? "Because challenges must be answered by these challenges, won't they? And I think we have the adaptation of RGI, which has been mentioned in a very short period, a challenge, a political challenge. To get involved, if possible, is a challenge, or "Yes, I'll get in and wet, even though ELA will criticize me, or I'll stay there and consume the paper of vision." EH Bildu alderdi politico bat yes, ez da ikuskaritza bat, ez da obserbatorio bat. Zergatik badago joera bat, udara honetan ere esan dena, esan dena: "Well, you, Urkullu, be quiet, that if by any circumstances the Socialist Party solvivates itself on the issue of the right to decide, it will be us to cover it." Espepel supervisor es de temporas passos. " Supervisores de la pollítica vasca, este pueblo ha teni muchos, y afortunadente casi todos unaparacdododododo." Pero esto de supervisar, and I'll tell you what's right and what's wrong. Wet, wet, negotiated, moved a little from the starting position to the agreement. But it is decided somewhere, and according to all appearance, it is decided. I wish this thought were wrong, but I don't see any extraordinary disposition. And with this, too, we enter into positions about the auto-generacy, because when it is said that we have a new state, or must go to a new state, they have also confessed the deficiencys of the state which we now have. I used to say it last week, but it's not the first time I've ever said it: If we were to start traversing the state of Guernica today, considering the positions here, we wouldn't get the state out today, we wouldn't get it out. For instance, 18. by the hand of the article, Social Security, known as the positions of certain political parties at the present day, would not succeed. Of course not about national character and similar concepts, but of that we will discuss. Why do we say we have to do our own self-engage today? And where to? Of course, of all the rights we have as a village, to renew the self-organize, to today, to look into the future. And consequently, if we consider our experience, of course we need a new relationship with the state, with Spain. It must be new, must not be the first, or what it is; for it has not been good, it is old, it has not been worth while to fulfil the state itself. That Alfonso Alonso used to say, but it's true... You're younger, but as UCD voted for you, the Popular Alliance voted for no vote, asked the Basque People to vote. The Alliance Populars, yes; don't look at the position, don't be surprised. And then he had protection from the state. But when we say, "Why the new relationship? "I don't know. Well, if it's to change today, what character does today have? In a way, he's not strong. It's not strong, it's very fragile. And we say in front of the fragility that this relationship needs strength. The strength in front of the hysterism. It must be certain of uncertainty, and of course it must come out of this subordination and be respected. That's the scheme. It's not a new scheme. In the end, what are we talking about? And it is said in the famous bases so commented and denoted by some... The present Statute is being reaffirmed and completed. There's talk of recovering the mutilated or depleted and expanding the quantum. And he said in Basque, today the Statute of Gernika put to process would not come out, neither here with the majority that he obtained at that time, nor surely in the Courts. I probably wouldn't go out. And that's why we're saying that in addition to recovering and completing, we need to expand the quantum. I say that, except for anti-democratic applications, unless we can or anyone wants to install 155 again for the Basque political community, accompanied by a criminal strategy, I believe that what this Parliament defines and decides freely and democratically will have to be dealt with and respected and negotiated by the powers of the State, because today, with the legislation in force, it needs an organic law. Well, that has to be the case. But respecting legal means by Institutions does not mean that they are acknowledged to be of no condition. The legal roads need a solution or they don't work. Hence we say that the political, social, economic, cultural development of this people must be respected by the Basque citizens in this way which is decided by their representatives. This is the only frontier which the Basques determine from the institution of euscal. Then we negotiate everything we have to negotiate. But earlier I was referring to what the times change, and someone will say, "Well, now take some part again," but look at what the Assembly of Basque Parliamentarians, Members of Parliament and Senators, said when they prepare the draft Statute. And among others were Marcelino Oreja, Txus Viana, of course, Arzalluz, Cuerda and Monforte too, but also appear here Enrique Múgica, Nicolás Redondo, Ramón Rubial and José María Benegas. Article 1 – and then you compare it with the bases, to see where the difference lies – says: "The Basque people or Euskal Herria, as an expression of their national reality, and to access their self-government, is constituted in Autonomous Community...". And the additional one – not to mention article 18, referring to Social Security – says: "The acceptance of the autonomy regime set out in this Statute does not imply the renunciation of the Basque people of the rights that may be corresponding to them by virtue of their history and their will to self-government". This does not appear, it has disappeared from the current text, but this was the original proposal, shared thought. So where are the current bases located when they are coincident in the spirit and sometimes even in the letter of what was established in the draft Statute of Gernika? Not to mention – because before it was talked about the deputy Prieto and the deputy Aguirre – as you know, about what was that June 28th of this year, the update of the historical rights of Aragon, which Elkarrekin Podemos – there, Podemos – has voted in favour. I don't know if this is ethnic, historical, identity or what, with or without gominols. [[Barres]] But what the first article says is that Aragon is "... a historical nationality, of a foreign nature, whose legal identity, as well as the collective will of his people to want to be..." –as well as the collective will of his people to want to be – "... have been maintained uninterruptedly since birth. Good, isn't it? [[Barres]] And on the original character and imprescriptibility of the article: "The historical rights of the Aragonese people are prior to the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy which protect and respect them, as well as the legislation emanating from the European Union. By not emanating from them, they must be respected for the reforms that may affect those standards. Historical rights do not prescribe for lack of use, exercise or claim." So far, the date. The historical rights, which are connected with the antichronic and whatever identity it is, have on the basis of what the President has described: if there is political will, there is a grip. But from this combination of these two principles (the foundation of the law, the necessity of respecting the law, and democratic grounds) the future or agreement may arise. Eta esaten dut hau because the lehendakari Aguirre, who was also a member of the Courts, with MP Prieto, wanted to introduce – now that it is so fashionable – a particular vote. Then, to the first article of the Statute of 36, which was adopted on 1 October of 36, in full war, this amendment, this particular vote presents it on 4 July 1935 with another Member, Carlos Echeguren, and says that it is added to the first article that the regime that is established here does not imply the extinguishing prescription of the historical rights of Álava, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, whose full realization when circumstances reveal it lies in the complete foral restoration of its administrative political regime. Obviously it did not come out, because, among others, MP Prieto voted against, on behalf of the Republic. But also the lehendakari Aguirre presented his particular vote and intended something else, apart from the introduction of this paragraph, to appear a reference to the repeal of the abolition laws, which was then not achieved and in 78 yes, that the repeal two of the Spanish Constitution says what it is, but we are not going to recreate there. What we see here is that a combination may be made, and that this new political state may lead the way, political, democratic, and even legal by the rules. From this point on, the debate and conception of the right of deciding may extend to the point where it pleases; but it is evident that the right of deciding is in the people, and that it will be in the definition of what is political, economic, and cultural. And here arises another concept, and that of multiplicity is a second element. I was about to tell you that there was an excuse for the first violence, and now a new one came up, and it's a question of respecting multiplicity. The first force of this chamber, the second force in one case, and also the third force, which, in a chapter of social rights, has arrived at in the chapter of the social rights, seems to be not a sign or effect of multiplicity. Eta lehen –eta bakarren batzuek aipatu due – deputy batek..., beno, ore gure aholkularia izango den Ignacio del Burgok egindakoa gogoeta, indarkeriarekin lotuta. Baina ez da bakarra izan. Ez da bakarra izan, éta erespectu guztiarekin esan nahi dut, éta hitzez hitz nola berak bere jakinduriaz éta ezagutzaz idaztera ausartu den Ramón Jáureguik uztailean sinatutako artikulu batan, in relation to the agreed bases and principles on reform, and in reference to EH Bildu says: "They make politics because democracy admits plurality with the word and without guns. Or votes or bombs, we said. And so it has been and so it is, but I wonder if we could continue to hold that story if the new statute crystallizes the political project of those who killed for self-determination. Actually, it's a question that I transfer to the PNV." Hori idatzi zuen, eta nik, erespetu guztiarekin, berak dakien bezala, knows that the bases and principles that have been approved have an unequivocally democratic foundation, and he, mixing or relating the bases approved with the violence of ETA, I will leave it in that it is an absolute irresponsibility, an absolute irresponsibility that I do not know to what it is that a socialist leader, who has been vicelehendakari, parliamentarian in this House, deliberately mix what approved by this House – which is already the deposit of this House – with the violence of ETA. I'll leave it there. But to explain multiplicity at the moment, as if want of multiplicity had a spontaneous deficiency, a ver. The multiplicity is one of the characteristics of democracy, and democracy is one of the most dominant of the characteristics of multiplicity. Where is not a multiple society known? Isn't our society so numerous in culture, ideology? It's no matter what matters, in matters of faith... May it not be that our society is numerous? And why is this plurality used when we start making a national definition when we begin making a popular or national definition? Is it not, as the Common-wealth says, not the Basque Country a people? Isn't it a nation? Can you guys know a nation without a national? Do you know him? To know... Then why, in a system where the rights of all are guaranteed, lack of multiplicity is used to say that there are different identities here? Of course there are different ones! But they are on different conditions, that is to say, under different conditions. And who's above what? Which one is it? What has its national condition known or quoted constitutionally? Which ones? Basque people? No. Well, that's what I mean. In the end, if you want to take a stand by the hand of respect, you know, respect demands redemption. And this is multiplicity in its most comprehensive concept, and this is supposed to be denied to this people. But the question is another, because today I have also heard another reflection – and I think it was, yes, of Idoia Mendia – when I said "Between everything or nothing..." – I, when everything or nothing appears, do not know what it means. But when we have laid the groundwork and discussed which area of competence – in their case, armour and so on – I wonder in terms of economic growth, political development or even social justice, how it harms Basque citizens or what it does not like for Basque citizens that Basque institutions could have full competence in socio-occupational matters. How does it harm Basque citizenship? Is that the whole thing? Or is it nothing that we have to admit the cedazo of CEOE and UGT and Commissions? And this question also goes to Podemos: how does it harm us to have full competence in socio-occupational matters, or in protection systems, or in passive policies, or in pension systems? What's the harm? Or that we could also have subjects or competences on migration issues. How does it harm Basque citizenship? No, no, I'm saying how it hurts. No, no, less scary, no. What's the harm? And if there were no interference in education or health, how would it harm Basque citizenship? Or economic development? Or the Ertzaintza, which was conceived and recognized as an integral police force, with its own right in Schengen, and not subordinate or re-elected. How does that harm the Ertzaintza? Or the Economic Concert, which could also have those possibilities of adequacy and adaptation not when the State wants it, but when the reality of things obliges, even for excise duties. What's the harm? How does it affect the Basque institutions' ability to directly defend competences in the European institutions? How does it hurt the Basques? Or we could have selections. sports in all disciplines so decided, with representation. That, how does it hurt the Basques? I mean, how does it hurt Basque citizenship? The answer is clear: nothing. It doesn't hurt him at all. Nothing. Nothing. Then why is the other version being sold? No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u16	What's the harm? Nothing. Why? Because we are not allowed to take responsibility for our own future, with the tools necessary to deal with it, to address it. And who's bothering? To those who have a unitary conception of their State, of their State, who do not admit a reality of their own different from their own, and that is the fundamental question of territoriality, of the conflict with Catalonia, etc., etc. Is there going to be a game? Is there going to be a chance? Because people who understand that they have a prevalent identity, that forces everyone to make their fate as a collective future pass through the cedation of their decisions, the only thing they are creating are hotbeds of conflict, which they will have to solve over time. Therefore, when he says that from now on, speaking in a detailed and humble manner, I come back to him, saying that the President has not made any direct offer, but he has placed the challenges on the table, and everything that can be done during the last two years of this law is ready to go on and on. Will any one or two or three of the other parliamentary groups dare to examine, analyze, and develop these challenges? And if there was also a way of checking, agreement, development, and evaluating, re-viewing again, re-echoing, correcting, correcting? We're ready. And this is not the effect of nervous absence of a vote. If you believe in a popular project, or if you believe in it, we will leave the scene, the servatory, and go down to the people, politics, and why the agreement has its own object, it has its point. And some things must always be left apart, but that doesn't mean they're refused. I don't know what size analysis the rest of you have made, but we're proud of the fun-making activities in the past two years, why with all its privations and all its impotences, I don't know how, but they do miracles too. And now the incomes, if we have the way our deficiencies are raised, and we can extract our deficiencies, and I am not liberal, but I know what it is to look after a house, and we all of us, the euphorans, we must look after the house. And we'll have the way to do it, but don't lose our perspective, why a people like us, who wants to develop politically, socially, if he doesn't have enough economic handle, I won't say he did it, but his future will be conditioned and, in any case, retarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The team's turn is over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u18	The lawmaster, the members of the legislature, the chief officers, and the other members of the people, who represent this people, the senators, and the good evening. And I will undertake this second intervention, fully respecting what you have said, for I have followed your contributions with great interest. I don't know what I said this morning was going on with the interest of it. I think it has been so, though I understand that mine has no interest in anyone, that it has been, for a two-and-a-half-hour, to read of this opportunity, and to establish it in truth, but well. I make several expressions of my own, and I understand several criticisms, which I have mentioned this morning, I think. We have a number of things to solve. We'll discuss others. And I wish to inform you of the disagreement which has been stated. I would begin to make a list of the ideas each spoke of, and I would begin by giving them a general answer. Then I shall discuss general allusions. Mr Alonso has started by saying that we are facing a radical change to worse. It has contextualized it in the situation in Spain, to refer to what has happened with the motion of censure; conceals Mr Alonso, by the way, what he well knows: what is the reality of the consequences of the ruling in the Gürtel case, in which he refers directly to the People's Party itself. He's hiding it, Mr. Alonso. And he knows that the cause of this situation, moreover, is not the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party, but a decision of Citizens, which was his support. You know that, Mr. Alonso. In any case, it has accused this Government of demanding, passing or wanting to pass the invoice first or quickly to the Spanish Government. He has raised a chapter of falsehoods, with an identification of the Statute of Autonomy. He referred to Europe and to the vision document of the Europe of the future, on the future of Europe, to which I have referred and which we, as the Council of the Government, have raised. And he has referred only to a part of that document, to a part of the seven that contains the vision document on the future of Europe. He also referred to the years 1839-1876 with the abolition laws. Yes, in relation to what I said this morning, yes, but you have interpreted it as if I had said something like that Euskadi is an idyllic country, with historical rights. Listen, Mr Egibar has already answered you and I will not even go into the mention of article 1 and article 2 of Gernika's Statute of Autonomy, but in his case what is the unique additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy to which I also referred in the intervention this morning, as well as the derogatory provision of the Spanish Constitution itself and the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution. In any case, he has wanted to raise a confrontation between loyalty and unilaterality, and he has raised a concept of a nation that imputes or imputes me, also linking it as if I had raised a quagmire and a threat to the double that I have demanded or that I have posed this morning. He referred to the question with which I was also using rhetoric here this morning in the Basque Parliament: what other alternative do we have before the two noes, two noes, which we receive permanently? Well, then he wanted to caricaturize by saying that the agreement between the Basque Government and the People's Party, or I don't know if between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, lasts a week. I am not going to go into that issue, I refer to the facts. Entering the review section, balance sheet of the legislative calendar, reforms, education, PISA, diagnostic evaluation, the captive model of linguistic immersion, has made reference to young people, Lanbide, precariousness, temporality, entrepreneurship as interventionist, central... It has also made a self-identification in the need for a liberal policy, it has also made reference to demography, support for families with children or unfulfilled commitments, the social system with non-recovery, reform of income guarantee income... That is also what has been the People's Party's own request to postpone the debate in June, and that is also what the People's Party's request has been. It has also referred to the fall in employment in August, to fiscal matters, to politics in fact, to the measure at the convenience of the Basque Government, it has finally entered the ETA section and the link with the right of self-determination, and it asks me or requires me to take a step backwards, to rectify, that I am wasting the opportunities and that everyone cannot be fooled all the time. And he has also made a reference to the work of notary, and in relation to the Technical Commission or the Legal Commission of Experts, and also to the threatening tone that I was able to utter at this morning's meeting, finally saying that the words, in my case, are carried by the wind. Socialist Party. The secretary-general and spokesman of the Socialist Group has raised the spirit with which the Socialist Party conducts itself in the culture of the agreement between different and committed to exploring coincidences and also to managing differences and not giving up in the search for agreements, and reiterates this commitment and has also taken it to the social field, but has also abounded in what is the ground of self-government and not agreement between the political parties participating in the self-government presentation, the amendment of the Constitution on the basis of what I have also said this morning in terms of confederability or federalism; the actions of the Spanish Government present. It has also focused a good chapter on the actions of the Spanish Government present and the actions of the Basque Government according to the government program that the spokesman of the Socialist Group itself has recognized. Also, an appeal to historical agreements and when are historical agreements based on concord, and what may have been the historical days also in our society. Opportunities to take advantage of in the course that begins, with an inclusive, inclusive and effective project, and that is a lot that unites us in the priorities we share. This is the reference I have drawn from Mrs Mendia's speech. From Mr. Hernández and Mr. Martínez. A reference has been made to the greatest problem, which is the precariousness in Euskadi, with precariousness and the wage gap; women, who bear it most, and have identified as this the sign of identity of Euskadi Mr Hernández. A speech full of plans and programmes that I presented this morning, the always qualification of the lehendakari of the employer, the mistreatment of the unions, the mobilization of society, the unfair tax model, the references to EPSVs also for the benefit of the bank has said, the framework agreement signed with Confebask at the service of the powers of the elites against the interest of the social majority, and that if we talk about sovereignty, finally, it must also be at the service of popular sovereignty. In the case of Mr. Martinez, the Arcadia, an Euskadi of caramel, lollipop, gominola... But he also does not deny the opposite, that there may be progress in Euskadi as well. He has insisted on the arrogance that seems to show or that we show and the inability to deal with problems and that we want to forget them, and has made a list of the problems that we seem to want to obviate or that I want to forget. He also described it as a report, he talked about the memory problems that I may have personally, the solutions to the long list of forgetfulness and some shy whisper that I have also been able to raise in the morning intervention, as his expression has been, and he has made a mention to La Naval. He has then, of course, entered into the corruptions that splatter this government, into the client relationship – I know the two non-law propositions that you have also presented with Elkarrekin Podemos and that will stand up in this House. He has referred to the emancipation of young people, rents, precarious work, occupational disaster, social dialogue, dialogue in many areas, afterward. Then, after all, you've been talking about the politics of education, and peace, historical memory, close to memory or memory, you've thought about linking to prison policy, and you've said about self-interest that a new state is possible, but that which can guarantee or act on a legal road and on the side, and which ought to be concluded. You have proposed the variety of the Euskal society, and in this sense, well, what would be the example of Podemos together in contrast to the variety of society Euscal. In education, reference has also been made to school segregation and public school and what the position may be towards what is the popular legislative initiative. Osakidetza. An accusation of privatizing Osakidetza in generic, with what is the concept of outsourcing, again the mention of the wage gap, the privatization also of pensions, equality, then to put the note already definitely, a suspension in dialogue, and also to accuse me of the cuts in income guarantee income, in what is also an unclear policy on migration. You accused me of humidicum me missing, of modesty, and you said that the plan, or what was said in the morning, is soberbium, and that you needed us to turn around in 180 degrees. As far as I'm concerned, Mrs. Irart, you told us we're far away from the street, and you used a social therapy like that, I think, if I'm not mistaken. We're losing our options, but there are also occasions. Well, the problems, the economy, the social model and you said, "a la cabeza de Esaña y a cola de Europe." Then I'll come in, and then you've got a list of them together in a contest with Podemos, claiming to be left-handed property. You have also spoken of EIB, that it is not enough to handle, but that the leadership should be shown, and that the leadership should be beyond courage. You've even mentioned the university plan, and we shouldn't be afraid of the future, and we shouldn't resist the future and despair. With this you have mentioned, that it would be necessary to restore to corruption a democratic generation, or a democratic resusculation. In speaking of the State of Autonomy, well, he has given some point of hope from what I have said in the morning, and in this sense you have declared a change of relations which ought to be with the State, you have not determined, but that there must be a change in the relation to the State. You have proposed certain things to the Socialist Party, and I will not enter it, but you have mentioned the aims of the patriotic left hand, and what would be the contents. And you asked me what's hindering or what's prohibiting the institutional career. When we talk about the institutional trajectory, what dialogue is, what the agreement is. And in that sense, well, you have stated that new recipes would be necessary. I think that's about what we're dealing with. And I thank Mr. Egibar always for the first time when he mentions me, but I especially thank you for doing it to-day, because you take me as a creature, and as a being, I crush the ground and know the reality. Thank you. In this sense I shall offer a general answer to the government, and I shall continue to defend the positive and optimistic view of the future of the people, because I am sure of it and is so. We've lived hard years, politically and economically. Today Euskati has a chance to deal with the future hinges, yes. And the fear has vanished forever, it has freed us, and now we are on our way to partnership. With this, economic growth is constant, and civil society is a worker, and has been compromised with the roots of the Basques. She's working on the Eusk0 to strengthen trust and cooperation and guarantee the stability of organizations and economics. We've started a particular program and we're doing it, and this program is based on creating economic options and work options, i.e. when posting to people's needs. Our priority is social. Nay, this is our priority: from the money of our expenses, from three to two social expenses. We are in the middle of legislation, and the principal plans and projects are already in motion, and I shall remark with pride, as I said in the morning, that we have a course of pride. Our intention is to speed up speed in the second half of legislation. We're just pushing. We want to take advantage of every opportunity by making a more competitive and just country. I have presented the basis of our strategy and the degree of compliance with the programme. We have worked to reach agreements and consensus on public policies, and we certainly have a key element, such as the Budgets. And the attitude of the government is the same as it was a year ago, and my attitude is the same as it was five years ago. We have had the capacity to reach agreements on Euskadi's priorities and we will be able to do so again because our attitude has not changed. Our priority is to face this momentous moment, to guarantee social policies and to give a boost to investment. Every year we have allocated more resources to social policies and we will also do so next year. I have committed – and I have announced this morning – that for the first time we will allocate more than €7 billion to social spending, more than €7 billion. 7 billion are equivalent to the entire budget of the Basque Government in 2005, 13 years ago. 7 billion, the entire budget of the Basque Government. And next year, 7 billion to social spending. I have also committed more investment, and this means strengthening economic growth: in our proposal, own investment will grow by 7% more than in the last five years. These are two concrete commitments that can facilitate the agreement for the next Budgets. And we must be able to rise up and move away from the atmosphere of political confrontation in the State, which was intended to reflect in this afternoon's session, from that permanent pre-election climate. We have to be able to get up. Adopting the Budgets is investing in stability. Euskadi in 2019 will continue to grow, that is the guarantee I want to transfer to Basque society. There are projects, there are resources and I have no doubt that there can be agreements. The doors are still open. And when I say this as a preamble too and as a statement of intentions, I return again to the speeches of the speakers from the parliamentary groups, and what I did find, once I have made the observation of the criticisms – which I accept, I assume, by the parliamentary spokespersons; in some cases I am prepared to discuss them, and in other matters I will obviously not agree with anything else – for me, Mr Alonso, your speech as spokesman for the Basque People's Group has been a negationist intervention. According to you, the Statute is not fulfilled, the Basque people do not exist and historical rights have not been abolished. The Statute is not complied with by the Basque party. You deny the evidence and what this Parliament approves by a full majority. And I mean total, not absolute majority. The absolute majority could say why this Parliament agreed this same year with the vote against you, as the Basque People's Group, but I say totally because this is not the first time that the Basque Parliament has also adopted a non-legislative proposal urging the Spanish Government with its votes, with the votes of the People's Party. Let us also remember the plenary sessions of the 91s, 93s, as well as the relationship of priorities in outstanding transfers. You speak of a dwindling Basque country and I speak of a growing Basque country that wants to continue to grow, and never against anyone, Mr Alonso. What's your proposal? What's your policy? And another question: what has changed from last year to this? Yes, yes, do not address the question to the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government. What's changed from last year to this? What's changed here? Because we have fulfilled all our commitments and the door is still open, as I said before. The Socialist Party of the Basque Country, Mrs Mendia, and the Socialist Group, I thank the tone and share the concerns and challenges it has raised: employment, social dialogue, public employment consolidation, wage gap, combating gender-based violence or guaranteeing our social protection system. They are reflected in our programme and our commitment remains. The experience of collaboration and joint work between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party in a coalition government, such as the one I chair, that experience of collaboration and shared work of this government, is a good practice, and following this good practice in the matter of self-government, the effort to widen the agreement must be bilateral, and this is my location, too, in the Basque institutions to the Basque political parties and also to the powers of the Spanish State. I'd tell Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, and Mr. Hernandez in the morning, if you don't think it is, I've accepted the trouble, and I've accepted the privations. And we're still in trouble. I did a bit of autochrist, even in the morning, but I asked: Can you do any self-critics? And why do I accuse you, or do I ask you whether you have done this for me? Well, let me tell you something. the example which you here criticize, the type of the Jeltist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Party, the model which is the government of the Colonium, or if you are willing to charge us with the Eualtian Jalst Party, especially if your members of Spain want to know the standard you are criticizing here in order to apply them to it. I wonder why. I wonder why. Is our example going to be so bad? They don't think so. Your associates believe that in the Spanish State they don't, that our model is exemplary for them. Do not worry, Mr Martínez, about my memory, not about my memory, but about the distorted vision of the reality that you have presented. Don't talk to me about lollipops and gominols. Look, I don't want to make any jokes, because to make jokes you have to know how to make jokes. [[Barres]] That's what I'm telling you. [[Barres]] This country is more serious than you think. This country is more serious than you think, Mr. Martinez. Moving forward and disqualifying without rigor from this rostrum seems free; I mean it seems free, but it is not honest. Doing it that way is not honest. You have fallen into manicheism; in your opinion, what is wrong is for the government and what is good is for others. You have come to say that here is Elkarrekin We can take the country forward, and then you tell me about the lack of humility. I am not going to tell you that you are left with pride and lacks sense of reality: you lack truth, Mr Martínez, you lack truth. The Basque Country, Madame Irart, welcome to the country of the neighbourhood. If you come to the land of trouble, need, and need, the difference will always be possible for us to share our answers. That's right, you've landed, but you still don't know reality, I think, in my humble opinion. Euskadi's not in the back of Europe. I've given you the information this morning, check out the facts, and you'll find out what reality really is. We must, however, continue to improve and carry on, with humility and generosity, without leaving any one near us, to do so in the midst of us all. Euskadi is a living and dynamic society, yes. It is a living and dynamic society that we can be proud of and I am especially proud of. I am talking about society and this society in many respects is a reference in Europe, Mrs Iriarte: Dual vocational training, Industry 4.0, health, social balance. Certainly, we have to keep rowing and growing, because we have many challenges. And I'm the first to say that we need the cooperation of all of us. That's Auzolan. I think we need to insist on economic recovery and that economic recovery is a fact, but it is not enough. That we're getting out of the crisis. I didn't say we got out of the crisis, you never heard me say we got out of the crisis. Someone said they say we're out of the crisis. ‘It is said that it is impersonal, I have never said that we have emerged from the crisis. We are emerging from the crisis thanks to the collective effort and it is up to us to lay the foundations for the economic sectors of the future: industry 4.0, digitisation of the economy, innovation. It has been said that we have problems and I share it. Now, let's remember that until the first quarter of 2013, five and a half years ago, until the first quarter of 2013 Euskadi was in recession, and that we had 21 consecutive quarters of growth, 21 consecutive quarters of growth. That in March 2013 the unemployment hit the roof. That since then employment has been created and that in the last 12 months unemployment has been reduced by 10,000 people. That we maintain that trend – and I always talk about trends – and as much as every end of the month contains data that comes out the first of the following month with respect to the previous month and the data are positive or negative, I never stop at the data of that previous month but at the trend. In the trend. And I believe that in the last 12 months, as I say, when unemployment has fallen by 10,000 people, maintaining that trend and improving the quality of employment – and this morning I have referred to improving the quality of employment – is the government's priority. And in this line our lines, our policies: employment opportunities for 20,000 young people, special plans for the most depressed regions, or special plans for training and employability. I shall make general allusions from the criticisms or accusations made by all of you, and round and round, which would be the points of interest. Well, first of all, about the government and my attitude, as I said before. Let me be clear: I don't agree. I don't agree. The first generic criticism that is made is that of self-congratulation, either for lack of self-criticism, or that does not reflect the real country, or that we do not go down to the real problems of the people. Well, then, nothing more distant from me than self-congratulation. The Government's advisers know that there is no complacency or conformism in the Government and that there is a long way to go. We have before us the challenge of increasing employment and reducing job insecurity, especially among young people; the challenge of recovering investment in innovation, public and private; the challenge of advancing equality and reducing the wage gap; the challenge of immigration; the challenge of coexistence and the defence of human rights; the challenge of birth; the challenge of internationalization; the challenge of ensuring the sustainability of social policies. We have a government program and commitments to society that we are going to meet, and we are halfway through the legislature. No complacency, therefore. Today I have mentioned 60 concrete measures and initiatives that we are going to launch in the coming months, and we must continue to row. The second criticism concerns employment, job insecurity and wages. The Government's inaction has been raised as if we could simply be waiting, with very negative unemployment data, with contracts of misery, the greatest temporaryity, as if the Government is closer to the entrepreneurs and there is no social dialogue. All these issues have been mentioned in this paragraph. Look, first, employment. This government, and the former, was the first to adopt a local program for employment and economic recovery. It has 8.800 billion euros, and 1,100 million will be used to help produce jobs directly. The aim is to reduce unemployment to 10% of this legislation, because it is the commitment to society. And the results of the implementation of the framework programme are positive. There has been an increase, Mr Alonso, in the creation of 15,800 jobs in 2017, which is 2.1%. This year it is estimated that 17,800 net jobs will be created, which is 1.9%, and we are in the forecast of 13,200 next year. We are, therefore, in the right direction. Notice, the evolution in the affiliation to Social Security in Euskadi, to which you have referred, Mr Alonso, in 2014 were 875,000 people affiliated to Social Security. In 2015, 892,000 people; in 2016, 910,000 people; in 2017, last year, 929,000 people; and today, this year, there are 936,000 people affiliated with Social Security, Mr Alonso. It is true that August is especially negative, because the contracts of the tourist season expire, and yet, Mr Alonso, I also remind you, in August, this August, there are 17,000 people more affiliated with Social Security than in August last year and the people registered in Lanbide are 10,000 less than a year ago. We must continue to improve, but, I insist, these are the real data and unemployment will, yes, fall by 10% next year. Mr Alonso, you have also made reference to excise duties. Look, if the excise duties had not been agreed, we would be paying a lower quota, since 6.24 of the unagreed revenue is deducted from the gross quota. And I wonder: were they agreed in 1997, with a government of the People's Party? We collect excise duties, but they're tight. They are adjusted and we pay the state about 250 million euros. He's been talking about the Prefect. We quite agree: progress is required to reduce the temporary work and to improve the conditions of the work. Okay. But I can't get this trouble fixed. The responsibility is also the most economical and social cause, as well as the collective negotiation. Improving the quality of employment, to which I have been insistently referring also at this morning's sitting, is a priority objective of the Government and of society as a whole. It is clear that we need to improve. And it is also necessary to recognise positive signs; for example, the number of indefinite contracts signed has grown by 50 % from 2009 to 2017. Between January and March, 21,000 fixed contracts were signed, 11% more than in 2017. Reference has been made to wages, and I recognize that wages have been the most weak in the crisis. Wages have to be paid. continue to regain purchasing power. Now, Basque wages are at the head and grow...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Basque wages are at the head and grow to a greater extent than in the State. The most recent agreements consolidate increases above 2%. Better wages reflect greater training and productivity, and the most competitive companies can offer better wages. Reference has been made to social dialogue. I recognize the difficulties. She and LAB said they don't believe in the Social Dialogue Bureau. We continue to bet on dialogue and confrontation. It is necessary and beneficial for all parties. We are committed to presenting a policy proposal that regulates the objectives, functions and methodology of the Social Dialogue Bureau and we have done so. We did. And we are in the negotiating phase with the social and business partners to reach an agreement. We have received the allegations that economic, business and social actors have sent to us, and in response to the mandate of this Parliament, which I insist, as I said this morning, that the mandate of this Parliament and the mandate of this Parliament is not only the proposal for a law that is passed, but also the proposals for a law that are presented and rejected. By the mandate of this Parliament, we have sent the framework agreement to create 100 000 jobs in the coming years to the Social Dialogue Bureau. We've sent it back. Look, I think all of us will have that as a personal baggage of our own. I, as a lehendakari, as a politician, have it. I am very aware that most of the times public interviews are conducted with the spirit..., raising the list of what is said in the public interview, then the appeal is "Well, the headline has put it by the journalist", "I did not mean that or said, moreover, other things that have not been collected". Well, but I'm aware of what it's also the game before the public to want to raise the bar. I also say this on this issue of the framework agreement with Confebask and the positions that could have been cast this week. A week that concludes with an effort that from the minute one in which I came to this forum and I also recognized what could have been a mistake in managing that framework agreement of Confebask, forgetting how the fundamental objective is being forgotten, which is the response to a demand of 100,000 jobs – and this is the serious problem that we have, that we forget what the objective of the framework agreement is, the objective of point one of that framework agreement, how to respond to the need that may exist of one hundred thousand jobs, according to the survey prepared by Confebask or on behalf of Confebask; well, from the first minute that I came here and recognized the error – and I don't know if there are so many leaders who recognize errors so, in public, as I did here, in the forum–, from the minute we have put our hands on the work to try to pave the way for what is the tripartite dialogue, which will then lead to the Social Dialogue Table in the regulatory phase. I am not going to reveal either the talks, the meetings or the contents of what we have talked about among the various actors, but, of course, the will of this Government and of the lehendakari is absolute, because the position of the Government is one and is consensual and shared, and our will is to facilitate that social dialogue in order to achieve more and better employment. Reference has also been made to occupational disaster, and my first message is of solidarity with the people and families who have suffered this drama. It is true that the accident rate has increased this year by 0.1% compared to the previous year, and that is bad news. And you know the commitment of this government and Osalan to tackle sinisterity. Any serious and fatal accident is thoroughly investigated by Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate. We stand firm in demanding responsibility for accidents, and this Government will continue to work with companies and working people to increase safety at work. Eradicate occupational sinestrality is a permanent challenge for everyone. The third criticism is the lack of commitment to social policies. The need for a liberal policy has been raised, possible cuts have been criticized, a criticism has also been made of the privatization of health – as I said before – with the greatest social inequality. Social policies. Our first commitment is to guarantee and achieve social policies. In this maintenance of social policy, the entire state of Europe is a pure refractory, a crisis. Say no more of a group of autonomy, which has more advanced social associations than in the Euskata. Say no! It is one thing that gives or gives a man a quantity, and another a data. We spend more and more money on social expense every year. Next year, as I said, we'll use more than 7.000 euros for the first time. In education, for example, we have gone from 2,609 million in 2016 – two years ago now – to 2,722 million this year. In health we have increased from 3,421 million in 2016 to 3,677 million this year. In social inclusion (i.e. income guarantee income, social emergency aid and housing benefits) we have increased from 484 million in 2016 to 518 million this year. It is fair to claim our income guarantee income model. There is no comparable model in the state and I will not accept any attack on the Basque social cohesion model, although we do want to improve and consolidate it. Our aim is clear: to prevent the situation of social marginalization from being chronicled. I repeat: the aid must be temporary in nature, because the aim must be to prevent the situation of social marginalization between certain groups from being chronicled and to facilitate their integration into the labour market. We must redouble our commitment to social and labour integration. And we must improve management, yes. We have made concrete proposals and we would like consensus to be possible, do not hesitate. They say that there is more equality in society. Not at all! In relation to the state, and even to the part of Europe, the social balance is Euskade. The poverty camp is of 14,5% of the European countries, one of the lowest, with Finland, Sweden, and Denmark. Yes, we are far from Europe's average (%crus) 23.7.) ours, ours, ours, ours, ours, 14,5, and average in Spain, 26%,6. La rate de poorness, por lo dot, en Euskita, insto, 14,5%. La media europe, 23,7%. According to the European Gini Index, Euskadi ranks among the six least unequal European countries, improving countries such as Austria, Denmark, France and Germany. Social protection expenditure in Euskadi amounts to EUR 8,500 per inhabitant, above the European average of 8,000. And this is public data. Do we have to keep getting better? Okay. But let us accept that we are moving in the right direction and accept that we are at the head of Europe. Pensions have been cited, and the Basque Government is committed institutionally and politically. As an institution we are making an effort to allocate resources to pensioners who need it most. One fact: 10,800 people over 65 years of age, without resources or with very low pensions, received in 2017 an additional income that allowed them to complete their pension. And this has been done in Euskadi. We are making an effort with the retired people who need it most: income guarantee income to supplement pensions, aid against energy poverty, social emergency assistance, supplementary housing benefit, compensation to the co-payer. Politically, I do not need to remind you of where the initiative started to guarantee this year and the next year the revaluation of pensions, ratified in this Basque Parliament, and we will continue to maintain this demand that we have always defended. And from there let's be rigorous. Let us together demand the transfer of management of the economic system of social security, because, I also insist, pensions will be better guaranteed if they are managed here. Around the young man there has been even a hint of commitment, and the Poptular Party has also mentioned this meaning. One of the prioritys in our program of government is a stake for youth, a popular challenge is to give young men the necessary tools to provide for themselves and to live by themselves. We know and know what the greatest difficulties are: employment and residence of quality. That's how we got it, Mr Martínnez, IV. Youthdi Plan, and the proposals you make are in progress. We have launched a youth employment programme to offer a first job experience to 20,000 young people. We have youth entrepreneurship programs, dual training, transition from education to work, scholarships with commitment to recruitment. We encourage the inclusion of young people in public job offers. In the first year 6,800 young people have achieved a first job experience. I also said this morning, I recognize that our young people continue to chain two and three temporary contracts a year and that their salaries have to improve. And it is also true that youth unemployment, between the ages of 16 and 29, fell from 23.2% in 2016 to 14.9% this year, according to Eustat data. And I confirm it. If we take, instead, the data of the National Institute of Statistics, at an age between 15 and 29 years (one year younger than that of the Eustat, 15 to 29 years) the unemployment would be 26,2; high, no doubt, but well below the 50% that we were only four years ago. And we've got a lot of improvement going on. Let us not send messages of frustration and despair to youth, because I want to send from here a message of encouragement and illusion to all Basque youth. Another critical reference has been the inefficient industrial policy in the face of situations of firms in crisis or difficulties, the abandonment of disadvantaged areas. Well, you know, Mr Hernández, who is not in the Chamber now, and Mr Martínez, you know better than anyone, as well as other parliamentary or parliamentary spokespersons of the various parliamentary groups in this House, you know, that we are following the situation in La Naval, as we follow the situation of each of the companies in difficulty. And I say that you know that because there are many conversations that we have with you to explain to you all that we are doing as a government, all that we know and all that we know. You know it perfectly well from day one. We've been reporting on a permanent basis, you know that. Companies in difficulty and disadvantaged areas. We are aware of the delicate situation that certain companies are experiencing. And we're close to her situation and we're following her day by day. Look, if I made a review from the time I'm lehendakari from the year 2012 until today, how many have been full of control and regular fulls in which questions have been raised regarding companies in crisis situations. I could give you examples of demands that have been made to the Basque Government for approaching these companies supposedly in crisis or crisis before what was an alarmist message. And I don't want to make the relationship because fortunately, fortunately, a very, very, very high majority of them all, today is working. It's working today. We are also aware of the impact of the crisis on disadvantaged areas, especially on the Left Margin, the Incartations and Oarsoaldea, and we have improved our Indartu programme for disadvantaged areas. We are finalizing an industrial shock plan in these areas – and I have mentioned it this morning too – in collaboration with the outside parliaments and also with the municipalities. We will work to provide a comprehensive response in terms of vocational training, housing and economic recovery, because this is a shared commitment. As far as industrial policy is concerned, I would also like to make clear to Mr Alonso some reference he has made to the need for a liberal policy. Look, the Basque business fabric is healthy and competitive, increasingly open to the outside world. Our industrial output rate is growing above the average of the Basque economy. Industrial employment is growing, export figures are reaching historical records. We have individual companies that are world leaders in their markets. Of course, we must continue to improve, and I said this this morning, on innovation, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, and particularly in small enterprises, in so-called EPs. We also follow closely with all the actors who also devote their efforts to what is this culture of greater commitment to innovation. We have recently been with the Innobasque executive commission and know what the strategic plans are for the next two years, too, along with Innobasque. Of course we have to face the challenge of business size! We are aware of all this and work closely with companies to help them overcome these and other difficulties, because this is our model of support for the productive economy. Health, education. These arts have, in a certain sense, been made up of, as well as of the rest. As for our health system, it's a clean gambling bet on the Basque Games for 35 years. One of the basic columns of social Euskadi is our public and universal health system. The public health budget of each citizen is the largest of all the autonomy community, 1,733 for each citizen, and the State average, 1.311 euros. 2014 per capita We have an efficient and quality public system, and I do not accept the demagogic criticisms that denounce a strategy of privatization, of privatization of health, when what is meant by it without saying, in your case, the outsourcing of non-health, non-health services, and also not judged in that way, as you say here, in the rostrum. Look, first, we're opening new public health centers. We opened the public hospital in Urduliz, we are expanding public services in Txagorritxu and Santiago, and on October 22 we opened the public hospital in Eibar. One thing, in relation to the Department of Health and Osakidetza: the department only concludes 6.8% of its budget; 6.8% of its budget is agreed. Public health, universal public system. And I recognize the work of the professionals of Osakidetza. Basque health is the best valued of all communities, according to the 2018 report of the Federation for the Defense of Public Health, and I believe that the Basque Association for the Defense of Public Health also participates in this federation. I think they're getting close too. This report places us as the community with fewer days of surgical waiting (50 days) and specialist consultations (28 days), far away from other communities (over 100 days). We continue to work daily to improve this assessment, however. Examples in these six months? The Euskadi Ecological Plan until 2023, the Addictions Plan, the interoperability of the electronic recipe, the breast milk bank, the extension of the subsidy of the pharmaceutical copayo to people with less income, the cervical cancer screening program, the surgical block of Urduliz Hospital, the completion of the work of the Eibar Hospital. We're moving on. We're going to the next school. The education rate is one of the lowest in Europe in our country, and when I mentioned it in the morning, I heard rumors about this area from the chairs next to me. We've got a job to do, but we're doing the steps of the legislation. We have now attained equity and excellence, to continue to advance, and we shall continue to advance. Examples in relation to education and the lack of agreements, which has also been mentioned at this afternoon's session. Well, an agreement has been reached on the basis of the agreement on education. There is an agreement on the basis of an education agreement which subsequently leads to a new education law. The STEAM strategy, to encourage scientific and technological vocations, especially among young women; the comprehensive initiative against school harassment; the public offer of employment with 1,511 places. The Reader Plan has also been launched. The results in Basque indeed invite reflection, and this reflection between the Department of Education and the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy is initiated. More examples of progress that we have been able to reach or reach: trade union agreement – in the face of this accusation of lack of social dialogue – for the reduction of interinity and the coverage of casualties from the first day; agreements in Haur Eskolak, in Special Education and in cooking and cleaning services; agreements to provide more stability to 2,500 interim persons. Examples of what is the commitment to Education: the five new educational centres such as Gasteiz, Urduliz, Bergara and two in Bilbao; the more than 193 works of improvement of educational infrastructures. More examples? The new Vocational Training Act. Dual university education in 22 university degrees. We have ensured fairness, and we must move forward, yes, in excellence. But let's also look at PISA data or diagnostic evaluation data. We'll take care of it. And we're taking care of them. And you all know that we are in that exercise. But let us also attend to what is then, at the end of all that is the stage of the students, the number of university students with university degrees graduated. We must also bet on the future of the evaluation culture. We've already started it. We have to invest more and better. Education is our future and we will put all the means in place to further advance in an equitable, inclusive and excellent education system. Segregation has been cited and a desire has also been raised for confrontation between the public and the concerted. I am not going to fall into that area of the desired confrontation between the public and the concerted. In any case, I will say with regard to segregation that after the approval of the II Plan for the Care of Immigrant Students, presented last year, 2017, the Department of Education has already completed new actions and decisions that will be added to the plan. We talk not only about what affects education or the Department of Education, we talk about a profound change in the social reality of the country. It is not a matter that concerns only, therefore, what education is. I will then take note of the comments on equality of women and men, male-based violence or the pay gap. I have made it very clear here: we are facing just and legitimate demands. A new law on equality and against macho violence can be a good instrument to combat violence from the very root that causes it, that is, inequality. Violence against women is a social scourge that we are committed to eradicating; all measures are necessary. Ertzaintza, for example, is a pioneer in risk analysis methods and in establishing different levels of protection. All ertzainetxeak We continue to develop new tools to implement protection, such as the new application for threatened women, with App 112, or App Bortxa, which replaces old phone calls. I believe in an egalitarian society and also, as I have been asked, I have a reflection on the Alard of Hondarribia. The Basque Government has deplored the incidents, aggressions and insults. And it is necessary to open, reopen, insist, resist – I don't know how to say it – in the periods of reflection that have been worked out, in a new period of reflection that calls on all parties to foster an exit in terms of coexistence, equality and future. We have expressed our willingness to promote a dialogue solution. We did it in the last legislature and we do it in this legislature too, and we are ready to follow Doing it. The wage gap has been mentioned. Our commitment is to adopt a comprehensive strategy. The initial document is being contrasted and we look forward to receiving contributions from women's groups and business associations to adopt the final document in November. It's not that we're delaying it, it's that we're waiting for the contributions that come to us. In this process of equality and equality between women and men, let me also refer to the family: we also advance on equal terms if we move forward in conciliation. The challenge of demography is fundamental and we are not making enough progress. I said it this morning too. We have an institutional agreement, a family plan, but it is also crucial that we put the family as the fundamental value of society. And I close this whole chapter of an attempt to respond to the questions that parliamentary groups have raised by referring to comments on corruption. Certain cases of corruption have been cited and are being tried in the courts. I've always said that Euskadi is not an island. People can, we can fall into irregular actions and commit crimes. Here, like anywhere else. The difference is not the personal attitude, the difference is the political attitude taken in the face of possible cases of corruption. And this has been done from the very beginning with transparency and accountability. No coverage has been given to cases that have occurred, all information has been made available to the courts, and the Government is involved in cases where an economic breach has been possible for the administration itself. The commitment of this Government and my staff is to keep the ethical requirement at the highest level. And I make an express reference to the problems in Osakidetza's public offer of employment. We're putting all the means in. Since Friday, which was the first test, that first weekend, on Monday, three days later, as a Government, both internally and publicly, we were putting all the means in place with all due diligence and transparency. For what? To complete the public offer of employment with full guarantees of equal opportunities. That is the goal, to complete the public offer of employment with full guarantees of equal opportunities. The people who have participated in this public offer of employment deserve our apologies and, above all, our commitment to ensuring equal opportunities. Osakidetza and the department have come to this Parliament to offer all the explanations and will do so again. They will explain in detail the research carried out and propose improvement measures for the future. And they will as soon as Parliament sets the date. For us, tomorrow. Tomorrow. As soon as Parliament sets the date. We have provided complete and transparent information, both to the parliamentary groups – to the parliamentary groups – and to Ararteko and to the Commission for the Monitoring of the Public Employment Offer. Osakidetza, on its own initiative – on its own initiative – Osakidetza has forwarded all documentation to the Prosecutor's Office. Our determination is to continue to collaborate with the Office of the Prosecutor in everything we need. And let me highlight two facts: the mechanisms and reaction capacity of Osakidetza and, above all, the quality of the Basque Health Service. We have a health with the highest standards that is collective heritage. One of the last sections, a last section: co-operation. Yes, in the end, our country is without us, let us give it its value. In this country, there is no longer any violence or retrogression in our country. And today I wanted to remind you that we had new challenges in the field of life. We've done peace and partnership plan. We'll also fill up the partnership plan and the Human Rights Plan. We have proposed a Basque social pact for migration, aware of the need for a shared response. This summer we have served more than 3,200 people, we have opened four short stay centers and two longer stay. We have done so in coordination with all public institutions and private entities. And I give the utmost respect to all private entities, all of them. Those who participate in citizen platforms, as well as all private entities, non-governmental organizations, social entities that also participate from the outset in coordination, in the effort of coordination, in the attention to this problem. A very diverse problem, because we are not only talking about immigrants in transit, we are talking about refugees, we are talking about immigrants in transit, we are talking about immigrants in vulnerable situations, whether women or children. We are talking about immigrants applying for asylum or residence permits. We are talking about all this and we have also talked with the Spanish Government about what can also be a delegation on the competence of asylum permits in Basque institutions. Because we also have the challenge of employment in migrant people. A new prison policy is of justice, and I do not understand the attitude of the People's Party; they show true inability to look to the future and to bet on normalization of coexistence. As you all know, we are working and we will continue to persevere because the exceptionality of prison policy must finally conclude. And I also hope that the parliamentary forces will advance in the presentation of memory and coexistence, in the necessary consensus to share a critical look at the past of terrorism and violence. Eta Honetaz, Euskal Herria Bilduri diotsot: you have spoken, Mrs Iriarte, of peace and coexistence, and have done so constructively, constructively. And that's fine with me. But it does not elude a central and pending issue: a critical, sincere and profound assessment of what ETA has assumed for this society. You can mainly do it and it is you who have to do it. It is necessary for coexistence, for memory and also for improving the situation of prisoners. Last section: self-engineine. First, keep what you've made. That's how this congressman asked for. This parliamentor, Mr. Alfonso Alonsus, has asked for it. And I think it's a nice thing to hear from you. The Spanish Government must present a serious plan for work, which is not a threat. He was admitted here within six months President Rajoy, we should do this. and so it was. Since then, Mr. Sánchez has come to be president, and, yes, he's only filled for the first 100 days, but that claim, that claim, is there on the table, supported by this legislature. authority. Some handfuls have been trained for years, and they can be soon and easily introduced, which is the government of the Socialist Party in Spain knows too much. A light calendar is required to guarantee other transfers to do so, and to accept a mechanism to guarantee its bias, and to respect the scope of its rights. The transfer of, for example, the Economic Social Security Regime is in the Statute and is a priority envisaged together with the prison centres, Mr Alonso. We have prisons and social security economic regime as the two priorities in our shared government program between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. And don't say we say it with our little mouths. How else can we say that? How else, before what was Mr. Rajoy's government? How else, before what is the government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, to whom also in prison politics we have raised Hitzeman eta Zuzen Bidean, as I said this morning? The transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, I insist, is in the Statute and in our agenda, and the problem of sustainability of the system is a fact. Management in Euskadi is the best guarantee of future pensions. And in relation to the future of self-government, I insist on focusing on the links of the paper, as I have expressed this morning. I appeal to maintain the aspiration to widen the agreement and I understand and verify that there is agreement to widen the agreement. Parliament has entered the legal stage, it is a new opportunity to come up with positions and move forward in a process that will return to this Parliament. I insist on taking advantage of the opportunity of the moment, focusing on what unites us and moving forward on a viable agreement that has an institutional path. Yes, Mrs. Iriarte, when I speak of travel institutional I mean that institutional journey and viability must also have it in the General Courts of the State, I don't mean any other instance, I mean the General Courts of the State, in order for it to be subsequently ratified by Basque society. I advocate, therefore, for more self-government and also better self-government. And in this sense, in the spirit of clarifying also some issues, I insist that an agreement widely supported here in Gasteiz will have greater political power when it is debated in Madrid, if it were the result of a small, but formally sufficient, majority in this House. If we set up a large majority here, we will have greater legitimacy – if you say so – to demand that we be respected where we are a minority. A broad agreement is essential not only in its external dimension, relating to gaining greater legitimacy to negotiate in Madrid, but also and especially in the internal key of cohesion and harmonious coexistence in Basque society itself, or, if preferred, of the Basque nation. And I also say this to those who have been able to harbour some doubt as to what I think I have clearly said this morning in my speech: agreement-agreement. Agreement-agreement. How many times have I referred to myself throughout my responsibility as lehendakari? Agreement between Basques and the pact between Euskadi and Spain? But we're starting with the deal between Basques. In Euskadi we need broad-based agreements to strengthen ourselves as a nation, even regardless of the attitude with which we find ourselves in Madrid. Look, at the strategic level, I don't know if there is anyone who prefers a clash with the State from which a collective frustration results to an inclusive and possible agreement. In any case, we want to manage the illusions of this country and not its frustrations. And on vetoes, Mr Alonso, no one has the right to permanently obstruct with his veto capacity where he has the majority the advance of self-government at the pace that Basque society wants. After 40 years of the constitutional text we have witnessed, Mr Alonso, a statutory non-compliance that is distorting the legal-constitutional particularity of Basque self-government and our decision-making capacity, with an impact and a direct projection of the institutions and their respective competences. The Constitution expresses in its article 2 the difference between historical nationalities and the rest of autonomous communities, which it describes as regions. Thus, Mr Alonso, the Constitution recognizes our unique historical identity and in fact establishes a differentiated competition system. But in the face of such a constitutional foresight, the future of the model in these 40 years – and please be acknowledged – has remained on the one hand characterized as an unfinished – unfinished – policy-making process, a direct consequence of non-compliance with the Statute, and, on the other hand, denatured, since a sort of change in the competition system has materialized, a reduction in the fund of the competition power that has prevented de facto The double tension between centralization and decentralization in political terms, and between homogeneity and diversity in normative terms, has never ceased, never ceased. The Constitutional Court had to play the role of arbitrator and ensure with its interpretation a balance between the two poles, but it had been unfailingly tilting the interpretative balance towards the twin centralization plus competitive homogenization. The gradual degradation of self-government through the questioning of the two aspects has, in turn, been the result of an involuntary process whose first manifestation was the spirit of the LOAPA (the Organic Harmonizing Law of the Autonomic Process), and which has been consolidated through the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and because of the irresponsible political marketing practiced with respect to compliance with the Statute, the result of which is a sort of floating and unsecured self-government. In this complex competition scenario, the objective of a new shared statutory drafting in Euskadi, agreed here in Euskadi, in my view, cannot be other than recognition as a nation with a historical will for self-government and decision-making, and the consideration of the Statute as a rule of quasi-constitutional rank, with the legal-formal and relational consequences that derive from both issues: and I will say, for example, a relationship with the State based preferentially on bilaterality and the pact – I said this morning – a unique competence and institutional self-ganization – I said this morning; and an effective guarantee system that prevents the violation of its self-government – I said this morning as well. Expressed in another way, I will also say as lehendakari, and as nationalist lehendakari, that a project of self-government defended and supported only or only by the citizenry that votes nationalist, with the rejection or indifference of those who lean towards the Basque non-nationalist or non-nationalist options – it would be better to say so, because I doubt that there is no nationalist – would mean for many of us a stupendous failure of Euskadi as an integrated and cohesive national community around basic and essential issues. Our society is plural and diverse, like any other open society, and in our case that plurality extends to elements of identity that have to do with feelings of belonging or not to other national and state spheres. The Basque people, thus recognized in the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, the Basque people who have arrived to this day is so, and there resides their singularity. Linguistic plurality, national plurality, the plurality of national pretensions regarding the model of relationship and integration of the State, the will to secession existing in a part of the citizenship, are constituent and constituent elements of our community as a differentiated society vis-à-vis other political, cultural and linguistic communities. Our challenge – also, in my opinion, that of all, but especially in this case, whether it serves you, Mr Alonso, or whether it serves those who are not Basque nationalists, our challenge – especially that of the nationalists, who are supposed to be an added commitment by their homeland, which is ours, Euskadi, and which we have, is to defend that pluralism as an essential factor of our political, cultural and linguistic being, and not to bear it as a pathology to be eliminated through a process of homogenization and standardization. Therefore, the agreement on self-government, which is basically an agreement on the possible national model of shared community, must necessarily be plural, an agreement that brings together different. It is a legitimate position which must also be valued in terms of the results of the contents of self-government, in the results of the confrontation within Basque society itself and in the weakening of the social cohesion that this whole debate can entail. The challenge of Basque society for me and its political formations at that point is to define a project of self-government that deepens the current one, that expands it, that improves it with ambition, that represents a further step in the constitution of a clearly self-governed political community, with less dependence on the State, understood this as the institutional expression of central power. A project of self-government that articulates a more balanced distribution of powers, where the relationship of greater equality and bilaterality is not contemplated as a result of the legal transformation of the State under the parameters of a State of confederal nature only, because I know and am very aware of what also entails the risk of modification of the Constitution. That is why my appeal to the first additional provision of the Constitution, that is why my appeal to the derogation provision of the Constitution, that is why my appeal to the single additional provision of the Statute of Gernika, in addition to articles 1 and 2 of the Statute of Gernika. This is the challenge, to articulate a project of courageous, ambitious self-government that has its legal defence within the constitutional framework itself, based on an open and inclusive interpretation of the historical rights of a constitutionalism or within a useful constitutionalism. I insist that the recognition of plurinationality by the powers of the State is key for the system of territorial distribution of political power, which maintains old problems arising from the absence of political accommodation for national realities such as Basque or Catalan, to overcome this inexhaustible debate. The effort to ensure that harmony and common sense once again preside over the exercise of politics is, in this sense, our next great challenge too, a challenge that the vast majority of Basque society – I believe – hopes that its political class will lead and manage effectively. Therefore, I will say that Basque self-government must be the fruit of a pact between Basques themselves, a pact that represents and reflects the essential foundations of Basque plurality, that Basque self-government as a pact between different Basques has strategic scope, that the self-government project must be legally and politically viable. It must therefore be a project to be negotiated and approved with the institutions, with the General Courts of the State. The draft self-government we are advocating must represent an important step forward with regard to the current Statute, strengthening the power contained in it, with sufficient guarantee mechanisms. As has been said, the title of historical rights and their constitutional entrapment can be a fruitful path. Nevertheless, it is also understood, in my view, that the claim of a sovereignist person — you call it independenceist or secessionist — must have a legal basis in order to materialize, if that were the express will of a clear majority of the Basques, expressed in a legal consultation convened to that effect. This is what we are proposing in Europe, given the diversity of realities that are also present in this demand in Europe, with the approach of the directive of clarity: a model that serves for all the member nation states of the European Union that, being complex, composite states, also have within them demands, such as the majority of Basque society, of a consultation. Of a consultation that's legal and agreed. I therefore also believe that it is important that the Basque Parliament can make a pronouncement with as much agreement as possible on the right of Basques to be consulted on the option of independence, if any, or on any other. Always, that is, that previous work has also been done on what the purpose of the consultation is. I believe that, having verified the existence of a clear majority of Basque society, where appropriate, the political and moral obligation for the State institutions to proceed in an agreed manner to the relevant constitutional reforms in order to offer the legal channel to the most widely expressed will would arise. It'd be about – and I think this, they'll be able to. accept–, it would try to collect in a solemn parliamentary pronouncement the doctrine presented by the former president of the Constitution, Rubio Llorente, on the occasion of the Catalan political conflict, in line with the doctrine based by the Supreme by the case of Quebec. I'm going to finish. I end up confirming my mood: Realism, commitment, neighbourhood. We're not flirting with ourselves. We're realistic. We know what's the situation of Euskakia, what we need, we know what challenges are coming and what power we have to face them. Commitment. Our government is based on the agreement. The government program is our commitment to society, to society. The need of more social priorities and economy, more employments, and more equity. Neighborhood, because today's the future. We've got to work in the neighbourhood with the Basque institutions, the new Spanish government, the society, the university, the centre technology, the corporations, the families, that is to say, the euscal social net. After a great effort in crisis, we must now follow the same course: Realism, commitment and neighbourhood. At this point, once more, thank God. I'd like to thank everybody for their loyalty and the work they did. Also the two parties who have helped us (the Jestrician and the Basque Socialist Party). This government works and the gates to the interview are open. Europe remains the most prosperous and balanced region in the world. We're Europe. Europe's progress is based on regional development, and Euskadi must be among the European regions leading the social and economic transformation. And I join Michel Camdesto's proposal, which appeared here in Parliament two days ago, which says: "The institutions must be reformed. A global common good must be sought, because countries are increasingly linked together." Greater economic and political integration is needed. We live at a time when our companies and professionals face a very competitive and increasingly technological global context. Our companies are responding well, they are leading that 4.0 revolution. And it's not just about moving forward. It is about moving in the right direction, in the leading group in Europe. And I recover the image that has sometimes used the extinct Oteiza of the trainer, which looking to the past advances towards the future rowing together. We have experience and we can move forward by rowing together. Let us put on the table priorities and shared projects. Government doors are open. Let's look for agreements, we need them more than ever. I have an illusion for this country, which grows and creates employment, solidarity and openness, dynamic and innovative. And we must, yes, live up to an Euskadi that deserves all our recognition. I have an illusion for this country, which aspires to grow without leaving anyone behind. The Basque Society requires a new, strict, transparent way of making politics, filling up a program of commitment. This is our model. We're fine on the way to complete the targets. And, yes, I point out once more that unemployment descends from 10% and that the wealth of each citizen is higher than the average of Europe. They are not both weak ends. I have an illusion in the future of Euskade. Our country is recovering its illusion. Let's keep working together to win the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Passing the answer shift, the spokesman from the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, I am grateful that you have addressed so much time to my parliamentary group, the humblest and smallest in this House. And I will also try to answer the questions that you have asked me, as I think you are interested in having them answered. But I want to tell you, first of all, look, the Basque Country is also my homeland, it is also my homeland. And I feel it as such, it's our homeland. Spain is our homeland too. There are people who feel two homelands, people who feel only one. I don't know, but those are our feelings. But it's my homeland. I cannot share that which you claim that by being a nationalist the commitment to the homeland is greater. That is, if you are a French nationalist, is your commitment to France greater than if you are not a French nationalist? Is Jean Marie Le Pen's commitment greater than Macron's commitment to France because one is nationalist and the other is not? No, no, [[Barres]] So, neither here. Not here either. Or what? What vision is that of the Basque Country? What commitment must be demonstrated? We, what commitment to the Basque Country, in defense of its freedoms? With my comrades buried, what commitment? That is to love the homeland, with courage, with commitment of truth, which is the commitment of the one who plays his life for that which he loves, which is coexistence in Euskadi. And that's what puts your deal with Bildu at risk. That's what puts it at risk. Because we're going to self-determination, exclusion, radical position, they're dragging him. That is what is at risk, and therefore I am of course a patriot! But because I am a Basque patriot, like you, I am very concerned about what can happen to Euskadi and I am concerned that we are entering a drift that can lead us to the situation of civil confrontation and social division that we are seeing in Catalonia, with the consequences of economic impoverishment and stagnation that can lead to that. I don't want that for Euskadi. You don't want that for Euskadi either. And me, what I'm asking you to do is get out of the maze. I'll help you, whatever, but get out of the maze. Don't let yourself be caught up in those things that your parliamentary group does. Mr. Egibar, what it seemed was that he was convincing you of what he did in the paper, that he was not convincing us, that he was convincing him, "We did this in the paper...", but whatever trouble he's got, whatever trouble he's formed. He asks me, "What has changed since last year?". I mean, it's changed that you went out to the gallery today and made a joke, and the joke was good. [[Barres]] And then he made another joke, which is to ask me what has changed, which is, as you will understand, the rope in the hanger's house, the wooden knife in the blacksmith's house, is that that's what he asked me, what has changed. I have asked you many questions, you have answered me with two questions, to the Galician. I know something about that, because I've had a Galician boss for a long time, until you guys charged him a couple of months ago. [[Barres]] But he's answered to the Galician. Do you really ask me what's changed? Because it's changed almost everything, it's changed. As everyone knows. So, we can't live off reality, and please don't make me look like I'm stupid. And he says, "Of course, it's a very surprising thing that there is a new majority in Madrid...", where you all participate, that everyone also thinks they're going to get something: you 37 transfers, these gentlemen your prisoners, those of the PSOE nothing because you already have everyone placed; and those of Podemos, who are going to fry us at taxes. Everybody's gonna get something. Everyone but PP, as it's natural. Hey, and it turns out that the only one the lehendakari asks for this year's budget support is the PP, I just don't get it. The only one. How can you ask me what's changed? He says, "You're a negationist." I already feel as if you always accused me of being a heretic and had to enter the Chamber already with capirote. Denialist? You will be a denialist of reality, you do not see the changes that have occurred. There has been a clear political change. I'm going to tell you one thing: for me, the important thing is what I told you. Because he asked me, "What is your policy?". My policy is that I was never going to leave you hanging and that I was going to guarantee you a majority so that you could work and make reforms in Euskadi if you didn't go with the radicals. And what has changed is that you have agreed on the most important thing in politics in this Parliament with Bildu; you have agreed on the right of self-determination, it is there. And as long as that's the case, he's locked our door. Look, I am going to bring a proposal to this Parliament, to amend it. I ask you to vote for it. You vote for her and then we'll talk. I don't know if you'll have to vote for it by breaking your group's discipline. But throw it up and we'll talk, but break that. Because I'm not compatible, we've told you many times, with Bildu. You have such a beneficial view of yourself and the Budgets that you think your Budgets are so good that we can simultaneously like the Secretary General of the Basque Communist Party – who is my friend, who is sitting there – and me. And if I say, "We've made some budgets between the Communist Party and me that have come out phenomenal," listen, it's just that I have a hard time explaining this. So, I think we're gonna be serious. I always tell you in a tone so you can laugh and enjoy, but I'm telling you very seriously. [[Barres]] What's changed? It's clouded, Mr. Lehendakari. It's been cloudy. It was sunny, I said, "There are clouds coming"; it's been cloudy, it's not raining yet, but it can rain. And, therefore, if there is no change, again, to return to the situation we had, then it is very difficult for you to find collaboration. Because he knows perfectly well that the only one who can approve the Budgets was the PP. Because he does not want anyone else to approve the Budgets, nor does anyone else want to approve them. Or you don't want to pay the price they can ask you to approve. Mine is much simpler: I just want you not to get Euskadi into adventures and not take me to pacts around the right of self-determination that are businessable for a party like the People's Party and that you have also described – I haven't said it, you said it – as a stupendous failure. "It would be a stupendous failure" – these are his words – if there was an agreement that did not include more people; what is currently a situation of stupendous failure. And, therefore, in a situation of stupendous failure the collaboration with the PP becomes very difficult, because we do not want that failure for the whole of Basque society. I have to talk about many things and about compliance with the Statute and the vetoes and the non- vetoes and their problem with the second article of the Constitution, with the pact within Euskadi, with the European treaties, with the reality, with the law of gravity, with the things that happen, with what happens in Catalonia, with the beards of the neighbor... Anyway, there's a lot of trouble, but I don't have much time. I have two minutes and I want to make an appreciation of Mr. Egibar. And I told you, if you break up with Bildu, we can talk. And there is a future there: Budgets, GIR, etc., etc. I'm willing to talk, but to make a serious policy that you know we can share. A policy that benefits all Basques. In the meantime, the thing, as you will understand, is very difficult for me. I've seen Mr. Egibar... I liked the intervention because it reminded me a lot of that Monty Python movie that everyone has seen, when they ask, "Hey, and the Romans, what have the Romans done for us?". And then he did one thing, he said, "And what harms this, what harms that there is..., what can change, of course, what the Spaniards have done for us..." You have made a speech that loves you, didactic, pedagogical, to tell us basically that Spain is left. Because that's his idea, that Spain is left here, for what it serves Spain. But what has Spain done for us? And one says, "Well, he pays us our pensions. Because, of course, here 3 billion deficits..." "Okay, he pays us our pensions. And what else has Spain done for us? What else is Spain doing for us besides paying our pensions?" "Man, there's the AVE. With the AVE we're going to go very fast from one side to the other." "And Europe: if we are not in Spain, we are not in the European Union." [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u23	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u24	"Y el Athl." –Athletic plays against Madrid, right?". "Of course, in the football league!". "Well, well, okay, taking out the pensions, the AVE, Europe and the football league, what else has Spain done for us?". Well, I'd tell them – they won't like it –... There is the Civil Guard, without the Civil Guard, to see how we were going to end ETA. [[Laughing and clapping]] Spain does a lot of things for us. And this seems like a joke, but I'm going to tell you very seriously: I don't like the speech that there is any Spain here, nor do I like that nationalism is about eliminating any reference. Or say, "There is nothing wrong with being independent; there is nothing wrong with us because we will continue to respect the plurality of Basque society." That's where we could get to! They have a project to become not nationals, but second-class citizens. I tell you, we're Spaniards in Euskadi. The Basque Country is not understood without Spain, and Spain is not understood without the Basque Country. Together we are stronger. Breaking, dividing, it doesn't take us anywhere. I ask myself many times and I have spoken to you, and I like to listen to you to see if I can really guess what the deep thought of a nationalist in the 21st century is. Nationalists want independence. Or not? And if they don't want independence, then they're not nationalists? And the nationalist parties say yes, that they defend independence. And then, I say, this trip you want to make, what is it, an intermediate station? An intermediate station. It's an intermediate station, where to? Towards a progressive liquidation of everything that has reference or taste to Spain in the Basque Country? No, it's a kind independence. So the Spaniards aren't going to fall for it anymore, they're going to say Spain, okay? As you will understand, I cannot participate in a project of this nature because it excludes, impoverishes and does not represent what is plurality and the majority feeling, despite the votes we notice and feel in the streets of the Basque Country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u26	Well, I promise to be brief. I would like to start by reiterating the Socialists' commitment to Basque society, to its plurality and to its progress, because recognizing the plurality of Basque society is the basis for the progress of the whole of Euskadi, and it must also be the basis for achieving the agreements. Because the agreement, for example, that sustains this government has two fundamental legs: one, that it is dedicated to making policies that solve people's problems; and the other, that it does not take any agreement that confronts the Basques or that puts that plurality at risk. And I would also like to reiterate the socialist commitment to the agreements signed by mutual loyalty and the commitment to extend those agreements without jeopardizing what has been achieved so far with the Statute of Gernika. Because we Socialists are very comfortable in agreements, especially when they are useful to people. And that is why we did not see with concern the beginning of this legislature, because we already knew that we were in a minority, and we stressed the need to agree among all groups. That is why I also spoke to you today, in the afternoon, about the things that unite us all, but the truth is that even though we knew that we were in a minority and even having listened to the large speeches that we have heard many times in this Parliament from the opposition groups, the truth is that this half-legislature has come to fruition with broad agreements. And that must remain the acquittal of all of us and ourselves in this House, to continue to agree to improve people's lives. And, of course, Mr Alonso, agreements without vetoes, because we do not close the door neither to the People's Party, nor to Bildu, nor to Elkarrekin We can, no group in the House, we are open to all. And you don't close the agreements with the rest of the groups either, because in what we have in the middle of the legislature you have agreed as a thirty times more or less with the rest of the groups, with Bildu and with Podemos, agreements, simply by ousting the government, but we don't accuse them of being either "poded" or "baptized". Then it is a blockage sum that you choose, opposition groups sometimes. Well, we Socialists prefer the sums that build country. And then it has also become apparent that you have outstanding accounts with the PNV, that you are going to have consequences, it seems to be, but I am going to give you a data and I am going to remind you of a date, last May 23rd. On 23 May, in the morning, in this Parliament, the PNV and Bildu agreed on a sovereignist basis to reform our self-government. That same May 23rd, in the afternoon, you united your votes with those of the Basque Nationalist Party in Congress to carry out the Budgets and thus manage to keep Mr Rajoy in the Government of Spain for a while longer. Well, then they didn't seem like the sovereignist impediment bases so as not to continue to agree with the Basque government budgets, reforms of laws or plans of the government; therefore, the hand extended to agree to the People's Group and to all the groups of the House. Eta Egibar jaunari, therefore, it is evident that we have the PNV and we two very different future projects, do not seem at all. You start first from a nation where only nationals belong, then we are minorities, which above us are no longer so Basque, and then you from that concept of nation build institutions, you grant rights and competences. Well, we start from the rights and freedoms that assist all citizens, all equally, who add up, and from there we order our powers and powers. And then I heard you say something, and please explain: who has the right: people or citizens? It's always about us that citizens have rights, not peoples. And they invite us to the agreement, here we have heard many invitations to the agreement, but whenever it occurs in the terms you want, that is, with a known end. If that end does not occur, there is no possible agreement. So here, either we commune with the dogma of nationalist faith or there's no chance of agreement. And then you mentioned a law on Aragon's historical rights. Well, I'd like to know if the PNV feels right or wrong about that law. It seems to bother them that in other places they want to define their historical singularities, just as we can define our own. And this law, fundamentally, regulates two fundamental issues: one, the possibility of having one's own wealth, as we have, and the other, the claim of its cultural and historical heritage. And it contains a substantial element, which is its commitment to the common project of Spain and its development within the constitutional framework. I'm saying it in case it's worth it. Well, and since we are, I would like you to take your turn to clarify some issues. I'm just going to ask you two. When you say that the majority will prevail over the law, what you call democratic legitimacy, what exactly do you mean: that you are only going to comply with those laws that you like, as is happening in Catalonia, as your colleagues in Catalonia do because you have the majority? Because the Socialists are not going to accept that, because that ends the plurality and coexistence of this country. And then, another question, which is very relevant: when they speak of recognizing nationality by law, what objectives do they pursue in making this law? Because I understand you're going to make a law to give different rights to Basque nationals and Basque citizens, right? I want you to clarify it to me, because, if not, it makes no sense to make a law or even make that distinction, if we are to have the same rights. Then, basically, you are creating a distinction with different rights and two types of citizens. And then I want to remind you of an issue that falls by its weight: the Socialist Party of Euskadi vetoes nothing, because in the pact of 79 that you and we made, your way of changing it is established in that statute, and that form is not a veto, it is in the Statute of Gernika. And we respect what we have agreed. The Socialists are always going to defend broad consensus, plurality and equality, and we are not going to become nationalists, nor are we going to ask you to stop being nationalists. But we have to be aware that the new statute must give shelter to all, nationalists and non-nationalists. It must serve at least for the next generations, as the Statute of Gernika has served us. That is the challenge we have, that we all come within the framework, because it is our framework of coexistence, and that we are free to keep thinking as we wish. And to Bildu, the truth is, I have no doubt about his position in self-government, do I? Because it is so clear that they have even been praised by the Basque Nationalist Party. But I do want to tell you one thing, Mrs Iriarte: the Socialists prefer that the left abertzale use their seats rather than be absent from them. And I will tell you more: we would prefer you to use seats for the benefit of all citizens and not just nationals. And I'm telling you, we can work things out, because we did it in the past. The last legislature we get a new right for Basque citizens, the right to housing, and we and you did it. And I think that in this legislature we have challenges, such as, for example, reforming income guarantee income or agreeing on budgets that take advantage of the greater resources we have had in taxation to provide more investment and new public services to citizens. Because we now have a more progressive and effective taxation. And it was wrong for those in this House to talk about just going up or down nominal guys. Because we put the emphasis on what is really important: how we get more resources by making them pay more those who get more. And that, the proof that that worked is the resources that we're now getting through our out-of-pocket estates with this taxation. And the proof is also that the tax that has risen the most in its collection is corporate tax. So now let's see if everyone we sit in this House is able to agree on how we use those extra resources that we have achieved through tax reform for the benefit of all citizens, through a tool called budgets. And the truth is, Mr Martínez, I wanted this debate to arrive to see how you apply the story of what you ask of others. Because I was hoping that time would be shared with some of your roommates, for example, on parity criteria, but I've already seen that not. Because you are giving lessons to the other parties and to the other parliamentary groups, and I... it is simply by giving you the data, because humility is also very good; and let me know that I do not doubt your feminist commitment, at all, but it enters into the contradictions in which your group sometimes falls. You keep repeating, and your group, that you are the Basque left. It is also necessary for you to repeat continuously what you are the left, because precisely you have come to the last elections saying that the left and the right no longer existed and, therefore, you need to repeat it to yourself to convince yourself that you are the left. But I will tell you one thing: the sign of identity of the fundamental left is that it works every day to improve people's lives. And I would like you to answer one question: in the two years that you have been in this House, what have you done to improve the life of one person in Euskadi? Because you also have contradictions with the issue of national and not national, because you went to campaign defending the right to decide. The nationalists took their word and hand, and then they have been going and coming into that constant mess, but they have asked the experts to safeguard the orthodoxy of the nationalist bases. Because that text you guys have... Start of tape No. 24 ...in that constant mess, but they have asked the experts to safeguard the orthodoxy of the nationalist bases. Because that text that you have dyed is not known because of its social character, precisely, but just because of the contrary. It's a wet paper, because it doesn't have any feasibility. And we will continue to work for a reform that consolidates rights and is viable. Because the Socialists have been the guarantee for Basque citizenship, in these 132 years, to advance in rights and freedoms. And you, in two years, all you have done is make an alibi of the nationalists to dye a text that is absolutely sovereignist. So I think we have a course ahead in which we all have the ability and opportunity to improve people's lives. I offer the extended hand of my group to discuss and agree for the benefit of all citizens. The first challenge we will have to tackle is that of the Budgets and also that of agreeing on a way of continuing to live together and respecting our differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u28	Okay. Look, Basque citizenship has had to attend another year of a debate in this Parliament in which the script is repeated, like the day of the marmot. Every year Mr Lehendakari comes out, trying to convince us, in his own way, of the luck we have in Euskadi to have them as Government, the thing does not hang, because it is evident that the action of the Government is inflated, it is evident that empty achievements are sold, it is evident that half of the things that are presented are simple headlines, full of artifice, but that they do not fix anything, they do not respond to many of the needs of citizenship that we have raised before. And to make all this digestible, at some point, in some fleeting and inaudible whisper, the lehendakari comes to say something like that, that there is something that his government is not doing well. And then, moreover, to make up for all this Mr Egibar comes out, but, of course, to make up for things that look like an egg chestnut to what the lehendakari says, especially in self-government. To hear them speak to one and the other of plurality does not square. Mr Lehendakari, all your offer of dialogue has just given you once again – and it has been a few months – Mr Egibar. Agree between you and your party. It's not that they're different tones, it's that they're facing music. Who are we staying with? Who are we talking to? With you? With Mr. Egibar? Plurality and pragmatism or identity maximalism? But, frankly, I am not going to get into much of this kind of debate either, because it would take us away from what we are interested in today, which is that this debate is about Basque citizenship. We are not going to fall into the mistake that, once again, self-government, also raised in terms of confrontation, covers the real and everyday problems that Basque citizens have. The Government is very pleased that no mention is made of housing policies, that rental prices are being triggered. PNV and PSE are delighted to slap each other in the back so they don't have to explain about employment policies, even though precariousness scales positions in our country, as we are debating today. You are amazed to be able to pass from points to the situation of La Naval – and then I will enter a little bit into that – which runs the real risk of lowering the blind, or that the inability of this government to dialogue is not evidenced. The party of the maximalist agreements calls for dialogue, the government that has broken the dialogue with the unions presumes its commitment, the same government that is unable to carry out reforms like that of the RGI. Speaking of dialogue: the Department of Economic Development has never contacted this parliamentary group to report on any company, and certainly much less on La Naval. Three resources to the Bureau of this Parliament we have had to introduce for denied information. Unheard of. Unheard of. And so it has reached this plenary, the equator of the legislature, as a parliamentary minority, without support to pull out the Budgets, with considerable confusion in self-government, with succession of cases of corruption in his party, with massive fraud in the OPEs of Osakidetza, with a lot of social problems that are there and for those who do not have a solution to provide. You also want to make citizens believe that the only possible Euskadi is the one you propose. And today it is more necessary than ever to dream and realize a better Euskadi. Mr. Lehendakari, you've asked me if I'm humble. Look, I am fully aware of being the leader of this country's third political force. Perfectly conscious. I don't rule, I know all about it. The one who governs is you, the one who does not dialogue is you, the one who does not solve problems is you and the one who should be humble is you. He tries to attack the messenger, but that doesn't discredit the message. It is an old strategy and, moreover, very ineffective. The reality is that I have done what I have to do today, what it is up to me to do: to point out their failures, what is wrong with your Government and what needs to be done. You, no. You're government. You have not been able today to assume that you are failing, that you are not able to solve real problems that you know are true. And despite all this that you reproach us, despite what Mrs Tapia herself told us yesterday, in Elkarrekin We can have our feet on the ground. That is why, in the new course, you will have to say yes or no to our proposals, you will have to get wet in the face of concrete proposals; I also say this to Mrs Mendia, who has asked us a direct question on this subject. Proposals in employment and industry such as reforming the Social Clauses Act to guarantee a salary of EUR 1,150 in all public contracts; proposals such as a plan to reduce illegal overtime and also a work plan against labour fraud, allowing the Ertzaintza to pursue it. To promote the largest employment plan in our history in the area of care, green employment and targeted to the regions most affected by unemployment, such as Ezkerraldea, Enkarterriak, Oarsoaldea or Aiaraldea; housing proposals such as requiring the withdrawal of the central government's remedy against the Housing Act, directing 100% of the resources of public housing policies to rent, adopting fiscal measures to mobilize almost 70,000 empty housing. In youth, pass the first Euskadi Youth Law – by the way, something that is the initiative of this group. In the economy, reverse the tax reform agreed with the People's Party last year and equalize the treatment of labor and capital incomes; intervene with public capital the Basque companies in competition of creditors that are not economically viable, take the public control of La Naval, promoting a strategic sector of the Basque economy as is the naval sector. In education, ensure free, preventing the collection of so-called voluntary contributions from subsidized private schools; adopt a Basque law on public education that puts the needs of each student in the centre from the system; design a plan for the construction and improvement of public school buildings; educational spaces adapted to the needs of the student. In Basque, ensure the free study of Basque until reaching the level of EGA, expand the network of municipal euskaltegis and the places of the Official School of Languages, give recognition to the initial levels of A1 and A2. In health, reduce waiting lists in primary care by increasing budget and human resources; expand Osakidetza's benefits in pedology and dentistry; reverse outsourcing and privatization of services – privatization. In the environment, to adopt once and for all an effective and advanced Basque law against climate change; to adopt a new Basque law on animal protection; and to halve our country's dependence on fossil fuels by 2035. Equality and gender-based violence: launch a parliamentary agreement, which was achieved at the initiative of our group, to improve and expand access to economic support for women victims of violence and their children; increase the budget that Basque institutions devote to equality to reach €25 per capita in 2019; implement the measures of the State Pact against Gender-based Violence for the protection of children of victims of gender-based violence – another initiative of my group as well. This I'm telling Mrs. Mendia, who may not be listening to me, but she's asked me before. In social inclusion, lower the age of access to GIR to 18 years; reverse the cuts on the amount of GIR and the conditions of access imposed by Patxi López and yourself, Mr lehendakari. To develop in a participatory manner, with the associative fabric, the comprehensive poverty reduction strategy that was adopted in this Parliament – at the initiative of our group as well – and which his Government has in a drawer. To all these issues they will have to say yes or no this year. And about the corruption that splatters your government, Mr. lehendakari, presumes your ethical requirement. Of course, judicial demand, no. Judicial, none. You have not questioned the accused for corruption of the Margüello case or the Miguel case. Nor have they asked for punishment for the corrupt. More wheat and less preaching. And with the OPEs, so much the same. Ethical requirement? I doubt it. They denied the case. Do you remember how Mrs. Múgica and Mr. Darpón denied the case? Do you remember how they chased the complainants? Remember how there's not a single defendant four months later, not a defendant? These days you are looking for a partner to approve your Budgets and you are also knocking at our door. Our answer is clear: it would only be possible with a 180-degree turn in its policies. Do you want to agree on the Budgets? You know what we're going to put to you. They just heard me. Measures like the ones I just mentioned and many others. If you want our support, your Government has to make a full turn. We're not going to be the supporter of your policies... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u30	Señor Egibar. Listening to him, he reminded me of Mrs Zenarruzabeitia in her day, who was confused when she blamed the opposition for the government's failure to move the Budgets forward. It's the other way around. It is you who have to move and approach the rest. And believe me, in view of today's situation, the stretch you have ahead of you is very long. We're capable of reaching agreements. We have demonstrated this recently and we are working on it with the Government of Pedro Sánchez, but agreements with social content, with useful content to reduce the bill of light, to lower the price of housing, to raise the interprofessional minimum wage, to improve pensions, so that young people have opportunities. And that's exactly what we're going to demand. As you see, on the Basque left we have alternative, serious and possible proposals, and so far the only answer we have obtained from your Government is to attack the messenger. An old strategy that portrays them. Mr. Lehendakari, since you like the trainer so much and like to row, do a sledge and then we can row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u31	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u32	Well, good afternoon again, too. Mr. Urkullu, I always listen to you with all my attention and the utmost respect. And that's why I'm telling you today that the government's work seems to me more to me than to be the notary, the vestal, the leader of beauty. Why do I say that? You say, for example, "Two of three industries are invested in public." Yes, and I accept. But is that enough? Isn't that enough? Or should it be corrected? Or should we add it? Or where shall we add it? And that's what I call error, and that's how I understand how I'm doing François politics. You said, for example, "Los jóvenes in necesias... "O Les traslado mi alieno a los jévenes," trying to cheer him up. Well, well, as you say, and as we all see, because they live in a pretorial position, don't they? "Pero no es que les pole missing el alieno." That is to say, what politics we're going to make, in order to get them out of the situation they are in, and from this state of preclamation. That's what I'm trying to tell you about the work of this government, the work of a seaman, not the work of a government leading political leadership, is it? In the market. It's very simple for you to take care of yourself first. And I believe you to be, I have no doubt about it. The Basque Country, too. The most important teams have come to this parliament by collecting the Basque Country. And I want to know: What is the policy that this government will do to create employment, to create high-quality employment? How's he going to make politics? That's the question. It takes ambition. The numbers should be known correctly, but it is missing to make policy. And that's what we attribute to your government. And you've made a lot of plans and plans today, haven't you? But there are plans, Mr. Urkullu, which you often introduce, but later, this government takes a long time to get it started. It's a family plan, I don't know how many times you've presented it, but then you need a lot of time to get started. Then we can talk about other plans, but I'm very interested in what I'm told about the law of equality. Of this law, which you seek to overthrow equality and violence against women, or to make any attempt to do. And the question is: When are we gonna do this? So, what's going to happen in the meantime? It seems to me that according to the data which I have given you, and the situation which we have drawn amongst them, the difference between women is very serious, and the violence which these women experience. And I must tell you about another plan, about which there are several plans about justice which I can't remember what you've been talking about now, but there are some who should have been working for a long time. For instance, the decree of a gift of justice. And then, if we don't run or run, because they are great plans and have great names, that's where I see the leadership of this government. That's what I wanted to say. Around the balance of the laws, about three, twenty-eight. But it seems to me sometimes that there is also a matter of attitude, doesn't it? We've got a few laws there and a few times we can make a deal, and there's a few things going on in front of us, a few things. And when you started your class, you said that keeping things up wouldn't be dramatic. Hombre would probably be the next day's sun coming out, but, to be honest, it wouldn't be a good piece of data in the conduct of a government. I am sure that the sun will rise, even if this Government has to extend or extend the budgets, but it is certainly not a good thing in a government's performance account. You have to be careful in that sense. And the rest of you must be zealous if you will with you or with us, for you are in charge. You have to go forward to the budget. We can be responsible, but it's the one that cared, and so about so many other things we've been talking about. I'll talk to you later, Mr. Egibar, I don't know what you've called me. But in any case, the problem is with the government, the government has to go forward to the budget, the government has to get rid of RGI, the government has to get other things on. And we'll be responsible, you'll have no doubt and you'll know it's gonna be like this. And when I say ambition, it's a different matter. Half the world is doubting this high-speed train model... It's not half a quarter, and the other half is making reports and exams around Hyperloop. And we're still talking about a plan of 35 years ago, only when it started off with a train that doesn't connect us to Spain and France, and that's how it started. I have more ambition, and in what we have seen, and in what Europe has told us, some kind of argument, Mr. Urkullu... 'To have a certain capacity to see what we have in our hands, and what and how we could get on with it, didn't we?' We want to know what kind of a izeberg we're seeing. We're seeing the tip, but we want to know what kind of a izeberg is. We're looking at an iceberg and we want to know how big that iceberg is. We want to know if it's the exception or if it's the rule. And I'm talking to you about all the cases I've mentioned before, like Miguel's, like the Hiriko case and all the other cases in which senior management officials have not acted, as I told you before, at least ethically. We want to know if it's the exception to the rule or if we're facing an iceberg whose bottom we don't know what size it is. We want to know that clearly. Because it will be important so that in this country it does not settle that in Euskal Herria there is also corruption or there are chanchullos or there is enchufismo, which is something that, as I told you before, is somehow expanding and falling throughout the citizenry. Statusan inguruan, lehenengo eta behin, Mendia andrea, not by repeating things that are not true become true, eh? And dogma of faith, the last one seems to me to be that of the Immaculate Conception in the Catholic Church, but you already know that it is very controversial even within the Catholic Church itself. The framework you want to impose on us excludes us. With this, do not veto the agreement we agreed on in the self-government paper. It's a good deal and it's a deal that makes the foundations for the future. It is an agreement, which the majority of this people accepts, and which they desire; and it is an agreement necessary to this people every day to answer for their wants. Eta zuri, Urkullu jauna, ez dakit bear ongi ulertu disude, but I don't know if you're telling me that PP and PSOE have the right to veto in this story. No, no, no. I told him I don't know if I've got him right or wrong. They don't have it, do they? Well, let's not have it, because I think that when we talk about majorities we talk about majorities, that this is an agreement that can be adhered to both the Socialist Party and Elkarrekin Pode; that, of course, Euskal Herria Bildu has always had his hand stretched out so that this would happen and that, of course, if they and they want, this agreement, these agreed phases will be able to have new partners and new partners, so that among all of us we can make a law that can not even so probably have an institutional journey, but that, in any case, we will have to go ahead, because then, what is the alternative, Mr Urkullu? What's the alternative? Why did Mr. Egibar say earlier: "Would the Statute of Gernika have an institutional journey right now?". Would you? We don't know. Like we don't know if this one will have it or not. Let us try, let us try it in good faith, trying to ensure that we can indeed have an equal relationship with the Spanish State and that what has been agreed in this Parliament, in this Parliament where we make laws. The laws we do here, the laws should be respected, the laws we do here, and I hope that they will also be respected in the Spanish state. Because if not, then we'll have to make another way... I don't know why you're rhyming, Mr. Urkullu. Ah! It's through the throat. Mr. Egibar, two years ago, when this government was completed, we had a chance to make other deals. And the Jeltarian Party chose other sociations, which he preferred. And now we have shown that agreements can be more extensive and more powerful. We've shown that and it's possible. But don't tell me whether my work is a performance or not. I have to do my inspection from here, and, as I have said before, this government is responsible for its performances, and we will be careful. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: We're ready to make popular demands now and here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u34	Good afternoon again. I have spoken of what I saw, heard, and guessed. It's true. Look, listen, you can see. That's important in politics. You can't always guess, but if you remember the description that was made today... I've seen it on that last section in the kingning section you mentioned. As I feel. I think it's something that makes you say it's done by the script. Not you, determined by the teams. There's no balance on what you're talking about. And since it's not real, it's hard to say. Then we shall see, in the courts, what happens, but in the fort, how another political force has arisen (la ukerda vasca) and there will be competition, that is what we see... What I see, well, we got PNV in the National Artdatz, that's the thesis. Some say: "Perhaps PNV has set us up. The question, then, of the legal freezer for eight months on that national axis, is connected with this axis, and I am ready on the social axis. And we'll see if we're pretending to start this negotiation. We'll see. We'll see. I have mentioned two things: one, the presuputary economic frame, and then the strategy or strategy of public policy, which, for two years, will determine the presupust of the year following, and from here to two years. That's all I said. But what I see politically, I can't help saying, and I say it with all due respect. Well, Mr. Alonso, I can't solve your country mess. That he feels like a Basque and Spanish patriot, and so on and so on, and so on, I can't solve it. But you have spoken of what may or may not be democratic bases. Mrs. Mendia has also spoken about what can be individual or collective rights; that in the end, if you read the bases, the bases, you describe them as sovereignists disparately to say "This has no path, it has no meaning, this is divisive, retrograde...". No, no, they are democratic, democratic bases that do allude to a political subject, which is the Basque people. That I ask: is there a Basque people, yes or no, or is it an entelequia? And as such, if spoken by virtue of their nationality or in the original draft of the Basque Statute as an expression of their national reality, is there a nation or is there no nation? Is there a plurinational state or is there no one? Or is it a unitary state, unique, indivisible, indissoluble...? What are we talking about? Because from there it is that the clue has been given by you, Mr Alonso, when you turned my constant inquiry around and you wanted to tell us what has harmed Spain. And you have formulated what has benefited us. But in terms of self-government, when you talk about "Let's define competition and how we shield it" we are talking about those competences that make Basque institutions better able to face the challenges and the solution to the problems that citizens have. We're talking about that. Because I, when I said how it hurts us to have full competence in socio-occupational matters, of course, the answer is "In nothing", "Benefit". Or that we can directly manage areas of social, cultural infrastructure, the fact that we can directly manage, that we can directly defend the issues that affect us before the European institutions, in what way does it harm the Basques? What is said and that you have baptized as a sovereignist base and that this is retrograde, is an involution, no, no, that is a fallacy, that is a fallacy because everyone knows, whether of nationalist, non-nationalist or whatever, knows that the Basque institutions, managing from the closeness..., all the issues that have so far been able to be transferred are managed directly and managed better. It's better managed, it's better managed. That is so, and you want to sell the other fallacy that this country no longer needs because administering and managing from the unitary state will do us better. Hori yes. And we are also establishing, from that perspective of democratic foundations, a link with the State, a link with the State. We will be related to the State, according to that formulation, according to that formulation. It's just that cohabitation cannot be imposed! We've got to make a deal. Cohabitation cannot be imposed, nor in the personal order, can it be imposed, and less with violence. The coexistence among the peoples must also be agreed upon. And whatever comes out or what comes out of here, which will have an institutional path x, but obviously – and with this I will also respond to Idoia Mendia – every time it diminishes the respective electoral force, in this case the Spanish constitutionalism, PSOE, Spanish Socialist Workers Party, People's Party – Citizens, or exists – goes up, increasing the level of demand on the statutory reform. Because the statutory reform can be promoted by the Spanish Government if it wants, 15 parliamentarians, but for it to have the approval no longer worth the absolute majority: in the famous private vote of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and Podemos a qualified majority is already put in, 38 are not enough, there are already 50 to start. That, why is it? Why? Imagine a sum between you (We can), PSOE and us: we add 48. And is it more democratic than 46? Or what is it: that the fact that EH Bildu is left a democratic substrate to an agreement? Or, as Jáuregui says, is it crystallizing the independent project of self-determination of those who murdered? Or as Del Burgo says? Are the votes of EH Bildu invalid? And why, if we are on a project for all, which will benefit all citizens, why this requirement of vetoes? And when we're talking about identities, it's not a debate we need to worry about. Because, Mrs. Mendia, if we're talking about plurinational state, it means there's more than one nation, right? You accept the concept of a plurinational State. Do you know any nationality without nationals? Can you tell me? However, it is clear that in order for identities, the meanings of belonging given to this people, to coexist, they must also be on equal terms, on equal terms. That is what this is about, and that will already be discussed, where appropriate, but it does not remain a democratic substratum to what are the foundations, at this time already laid in this Parliament, which are not of any political formation. Jarraizuz. In that cross-examination of questions and so on, I say, well, broaden the bases. The same ones, the same ones? No, we have to lay the foundations on which it will be articulated, widening, of course, and we will see exactly what institutional path it has. But here, according to the reform of the Statute (article 46) absolute majority is required. Then you have a journey, and, of course, the aspiration is that you have a superior endorsement of the citizen whom you have obtained from the one whom you voted not to. [[Berber]] Your predecessors, you are from UCD who have transited to the PP, but Popular Alliance does not. He voted no, and these abstained; and with the abstention that they had proclaimed..., well, EA didn't – I also have to distinguish, it's a mess this–, they got a 41% abstention, but the Autonomy Statute had 53.4% acceptance on the census. You have to get over that. And I am absolutely convinced that with the political forces that currently endorse these bases, the more we can, even if it is partly – but we will see what it ends in – and the Socialist Party, and I hope the People's Party, that we can overcome that 53%. Why don't we get over it? Why don't we get over them? But, well, let's accept and qualify the bases as what they are, which are democratic bases. Eta amaitu nahi nuke, sheath, kontu batekin, which also comes to mind with the participation in politics. I already know that it has been reproduced there, but I listened to an older lady who attended the Day of September 11 in Barcelona, eta esaten zuen – well, katalanez esan zuen – "Borrokatu arn, borrokatu arn, galdu dezakegu. Borrokatzen ez badugu, sure galtzen dugula. Horrexegatik gaude hemen." He comes to say, "If we fight, we can lose. If we don't fight, we lose insurance. That's why we're here." And that also means fighting and agreeing, moving forward, growing, improving for a fairer society in Euskadi and a freer people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was 7 p.m. and thirty-six.
