ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please take your seats. First point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal of the parliamentary teams, concerning the necessity of respecting the new political state in which the self-organization is updated. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Irart, representing the EH team, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u1	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We wish to be master of the future, to possess ourselves, and to be able to govern ourselves; govern our future. Every adult person has a design for himself, and this purpose is what we want for us and the Basque Country for the whole. And as for the discussion of this day, the majority of the people of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuia have given us this order. By the way, I will be delighted to hear the arguments that you may have against this so basic and so human pretension, that is to govern yourself. But Spain does not sometimes allow us to do so, or perhaps I would say often, by using the force of fasts; and sometimes by laying laws prepared for the measure of hubeae upon us, sometimes by craft and by word given to us in some den. Halifax to the toilet hole. And it's not because they think they do it better. They know they don't, they make it much worse. It's not because with their behavior they get higher welfare quotas. They know that no, they know that when they leave us alone and we do much better. It is because they have an imperial idea of the state: they put Spain's unity before any other consideration. And as I have reminded you on some other occasion with this idea, it has passed from the fact that the sun was not set in the empire in the days of Philip IV to the fact that the sun takes just one hour to travel its possessions in the days of Philip VI. You may tell me that I am getting bandage before the wound; I am putting the wagon before the oxen, and perhaps. It's true that Autogobernus hasn't made up his mind yet, and that might be the case in a normal country. But this state of things, which lies before us, may be many things, but it is not normal, is not a normal state of Europe. And therefore, because it is not normal, we need to protect ourselves, to create ourselves, to place a shield around us, which is as small as possible, to attack as possible, and we know that the attacks will come, and that the attacks will come. We've seen it over and over, lately, a few attacks against the Parliament of Catalonia. I'd like to remind you again that President Carmel Forcadell is in prison: he is in prison for giving way to parliamentary debates, and is in prison for defending all parliamentary rights. Maybe somebody's forgotten, but he's in jail. The Spanish State has also forbidden us to speak of what is not agreeable to us, and we have not this fundamental right. They say yes, but we don't. And he who defends this fundamental right is also in danger of being locked up. They have taught us lesson, they have taught us before the lesson; but they have made it manifest, that once more they may do whatever they please, because they have a mind to do whatever they please. It is therefore necessary to make us respect ours. And the way is not easy, of course; but the first step is to answer as a village. Let them be convinced that this is a people, that there is a people here, and that this people has no intention of making a mock of any one, so that they may neglect their democratic decisions; nor think, because we speak of it, because we speak of democracy, because we speak of respecting the democratic decisions of the people. We saw last week the important initiative that draws the road: The high-class house and the President Ibarcheche, a syndicate, a writer, a scientist, or a highly named artist, as "democracy"; and that when it is announced that this nation requires a new state, it requires a state based on equality with the Spanish State. And given the unfortunate panorama that prevails in the Spanish State they have wanted to make an appeal to abandon indifference and to resume the trace of critical consciousness, advocating for a new status for Euskal Herria, which grants us full competences and recognizes us as a people, as a nation, which is exactly what we are. This is the way to take it together, and to defend this people above the tactical differences, and the first step is to wager for democracy. The line is very clear, and on which side we stand we should be very clear. We are on the side of democracy, because we see that the decline of the Spanish State depends upon autoritism and force, just as Spain has been trying to solve or solve all the crisis it has hitherto suffered. The involution is a fact and has come to stay. I said that last week: Article 155 is not a removal and putting item. Parliaments are dissolved, governments are removed, rappers are imprisoned, those who call for an end to the dispersal, those who are caught up in a fight, those who send political leaders into exile... And it's time to open your eyes. What else do those who still doubt need to see for themselves? That's what I'm wondering... The Jeltist Party seems to agree with the diagnosis of the Basque Country. When we read the last novel Day's document, that's what we've come to understand, that we agree in the diagnosis, although in the institutions which he governs things are not so clearly explained. Mr. Egibar, Mr. Erkoa, the President himself, we have often heard the attention of this subject in this legislature before the attacks which the decisions we now make suffer. "Pie jud": that was a phrase that came into my head. But how are we supposed to do it? How are we supposed to dump this situation? How do we make our decisions? How are our rights to be armored? What's the formula again about the state of Guernica? For we think there is only one way, and that only way is more sovereign. It's our problem that they have the instruments themselves, that they have all their instruments, that they have all their contrivances, that we take our decisions here, that the people are ordering us to destroy them. Elkarrekin Podemosek ere salatzen du inboluzio hori, bathe beti iruditzen zaigu "baina" bat ateratzen diozuela: Altsasukoa ez da terresa, bathe ez dogu inpuniterik nahi. Ez, ez dugu inpuniterik nahi, iolaz era ez. Not 155, but neither to the declaration of independence. Looks like you're trying to make up for something, which you're following in the 15-M camp, in the Sun Gate, in the zero kilometre. And we think it's time to get going. Look, today, at 87 years on the seaside, the councilmen of widely different ideology agreed to a document. It said in a piece: "At this historical moment when the destructive regime of our political freedom as a nation has disappeared, in the face of the fact of the new structure of the Spanish State, after affirming the natural and historical rights which as such a nation correspond to it, demands, as the first act of the self-determination of the Basque Country, the proclamation of the Basque Republic confederated with the other Iberian republics." Ya señores del Parto Popular, señores del Partado Socialist, se there replacedo beliefs ya main problem. Your blindness, and your unwillingness to move, by the means you use, the strength, the sometimes the lie, you see what results it gives you. You are sinking into the surveys and the shames of the state you represent are becoming evident before the whole world; you are the representatives of the no, of the systematic boycott to what the social and political majority of this country views; and you are becoming more and more destitute, for you are twisting the law, manipulating Justice and, what I was saying to you, using the veto systematically. And they do, moreover, by leaving before Europe – and above all the world would say – the shames of the state that you have built, a state that – as I said before – continues to try to poison Basque society, as seen with the Altsasua case, which lies blatantly, inventing violence in Catalonia, which is capable of saying that to paint an anthem is a violent act. This, not to mention the fact that a whole Supreme Court, like a child who has been taken away from the ball, has given birth to German judges, in a car that was only to settle Jordi Sánchez's appeal on attendance at his investiture. I just had to figure that out, and you see. And it seems to me that even to make friends, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, you have some very curious forms. But it seems to us that, in any case, history will pass over you, unless you rectify, especially you Socialist Party gentlemen, because many of your militants, those of now and those of the past, deserve to recover the party that one day knew how to make freedom their flag. He was saying right now, today 87 years ago that in Itsasondo his entire corporation – where, by the way, along with several Carlists, there was also a member of the UGT – approved a solemn declaration, in which they claimed, as the first act of self-determination of the Basque Country, the proclamation of the Basque Republic confederated with the other Iberian republics. Think about it, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, think about it in truth, and order your priorities, the freedom or unity of Spain; decide what is above what. In the Auto-generonity there has not yet been decided, but there are traces of the result already, and some important threads of agreement, and some columns which can serve as the foundation of the future. It will be our work, our work, our columns, our foundations, and pillars together, and make a solid building. And that's what we want. But it is not worth while to cheat on this important work; it is of no use to choose the first colours, and then to say that the material is of no importance; it is not worth while to submit to the cloak of Madrid or to wish to spend the whole day. If it's a bet for freedom, he'll never like it. If it's respect for the decisions that are made in our country, he'll never like it. Nor is it worth granting veto rights in the name of plurality, or generating false expectations for the men and women of this country, talking about social rights, while it is decided to leave the handle of the frying pan to the usual ones. In two words: let us prepare ourselves to face the future with as great a union as possible, with as much stability as possible. I repeat: that's the vocation of the Basque People gathering. This may be the first step. Let all the people of Arba, Bizkai, and Gipuzia know what they are asking for: that we respect the decisions we've made here. There is no more democratic, no more extensive, than to maintain the stability of this people, and to have every political choice of development and realization in the principle of equality. Respect for what we decide here. No more, but not less. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u3	Good morning, congressmen. I quote: "The core and main key in which we are working (...) for the updating of self-government is the model of this country's relationship with the Spanish State". This is the justification for the motion that Euskal Herria Bildu has brought to this debate in Parliament today. Honestly, is that the core? I mean, let me doubt it, let us doubt it. I don't know whether to call it an obsession or an obsession with some. Of course, in Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that the main key to the debate on self-government is to improve the quality of life of Basque citizens. And that quality is not guaranteed by being independent or confederal, which can be our proposal, or an autonomous community. It is ensured that the agreement that we have reached includes the shielding of social rights, guarantees for access to decent employment, quality public health or education, a guarantee of income, or progress towards real and effective equality between women and men. And no, we do not believe that this dilemma resolves to have to choose one or the other: social rights or legal status. We don't think they're exclusive; that's a lie, it's an empty simplification. As empty as the attempt to stay day and day also talking over and over again about the status, but not about the issues that improve the quality of life of Basque citizenship, because, frankly, it is not so difficult. We can, without problem, address both our national and social aspects; but the question – or what I wonder at least – is why in their initiatives, including today's, social issues never appear or do not have the same importance as national ones. Why don't they show up today? Why do social issues, when they appear, if they do – because they are not even quoted today – do on a secondary level? And we, of course, are in the 15-M, of course we are in the street, indeed. Just as you have to consider why you have long since stopped making a number of social demands, because today the group that is going to be here defending the shielding of social rights is us, not you. But we in Elkarrekin do not have any inconvenience in saying that the decisions that we take in this Parliament and that we take Basque citizenship must be respected, just as we have no inconvenience in saying that we cannot go on for any longer arguing that the only thing that is going to be decided in this country is the territorial question, because it is not true. And it is not true because the national construction of social construction is not separable, because there is no status or status that does not necessarily carry a particular social model. And when again and again we only talk about the territorial and it is obvious or left in a corner, as has been done today, the social, what is being said is that some are willing to accept any model of social construction, provided that the national part satisfies them, and that the social is secondary and that it is the national that is clearly the priority. And from this point of view, we, of course, are convinced of two things: The first – and this is a warning to navigators too, and this time I say it in reference to you – that there is not going to be an easy agreement on issues such as public education, income guarantee, etc. It will certainly have to be flexible. But I look at those who think it's going to be easier to agree on this or to agree on the territorial. And the second is that, at the territorial level of Euskadi, Basque society needs less fronts or majorities of one half against another. Today Basque society wants a plural, broad and cross-cutting agreement. And yes, that agreement will be as ambitious as Basque citizenship itself wishes. And if that decision... and yes, indeed, that decision will have to be respected, and that decision will have to be upheld. But what is being raised today is something else. Today we are looking for a photo, between PNV and Bildu, because if you didn't want to agree on something; a photo in which one conforms with that national priority over the social, in which others whiten their image. Today, at the PNV, this debate comes from pearls. Today this initiative, Mr Egibar, is going to leave him very calm: the same day that they are negotiating in Madrid with the People's Party or with a corrupt government, with the party of 155 that you mention so much, with the party of recentralisation, they take a photo that calms his most sovereignist sector. Today, the same day that they are giving oxygen in Madrid to the People's Party, to that of the police charges on 1 October, to the imprisonment of Catalan politicians, to the threats of resorting to Basque accounts, can fill their mouths talking about the right to decide. Today, at the PNV, this debate comes from pearls. What we have nothing clear is whether to the left of this country comes so well; we have nothing clear if to Basque citizens this smokescreen, this whitening of the PNV pacts with the PP, comes well, neither to it, nor to its sovereignty. And what alternative is there to this? A very simple alternative, which was the one we proposed in our amendment: to affirm, without a doubt, the essential respect for the political will democratically expressed by Basque citizens, while at the same time highlighting the social aspects of the new statute to which we aspire. No more or less. No more or less than what has already been agreed in this Parliament in January 2017. So, what I'm wondering today is, why is today no longer worth the deal that was made a year ago? Moreover, what does Basque citizenship gain today with this agreement? Is it less firm what you agreed in January last year, literally demanding respect for the democratically expressed will of Basque citizens, than what will be approved today? We don't think so. But, no doubt, what is the initiative that is being debated today is less social than what was discussed in 2017. What's more, it's social zero. Today, in this agreement, there is no mention of what was said a year ago. A year ago it was said – and I quote literally – that "we had to face the present and future challenges, contemplating the consolidation and extension of social, economic or cultural rights". Intergenerational solidarity, i.e. pensions, was said to have to be guaranteed. Today all this, the social part, disappears and, in return, no more firmness is gained in defending the decisions of Basque citizens, because that was already in the 2017 agreement. I insist, what does citizenship gain today? What do those who push this agreement gain? That is the big question that needs to be resolved today. Even more. Referring to the agreement a year ago added to practically the entire political arc, except for the clear PP. Today's agreement reduces this agreement to two parties. We have said this by active and passive: we are not going to let... We are not going to support front policies, we are not going to join either fronts or fronts, just as we are not going to admit or consent to vetoes from PSOE or PP so as not to advance in the decisions we make either in this House or in the citizenry. And honestly, in Elkarrekin Podemos, we are totally convinced that the keys are these that I have just reviewed: neither fronts, nor vetoes, nor agreements that marginalize social content; they are the keys that we believe a vast majority of Basques and Basques want. Today's, of course, is a missed opportunity for such an agreement: for the broad, plural, cross-cutting agreement, committed to the decisions of Basque society and to the improvement of the life of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u5	Well, good morning. I want to recognize Mrs. Iriarte and her group the ability to get to talk every week about Catalonia, whatever excuse it is. You've almost become a coach. And today you raise an issue for us to discuss democratic guarantees about what we do in this Parliament and, finally, as a definition, because you can only say that we fully share it, but, in your conclusion, we completely disagree. I want to tell Mr Martínez that you had too much hope for Bildu's electoral strategy; it has always been the same, the identity and the territorial, above all else. And this is exactly a palm show of that speech. And today we want to defend once again the deepening of self-government, which contemplates full democratic guarantees. We have repeated this in the Self-Government Paper many times: political agreement and respect for the will of the citizen and the current legal order, which I would like to remind you that it appears in the constitution of the Self-Government Paper in which you participate. Majorities and rules to change the law from the law. That is democracy: to accept the will of the citizen, respecting the procedures that this same will of the citizen, through its legitimate representation, has agreed. Everything else is shortcuts that have a lot of propaganda, but little real democratic. It seems that, in this period of statutist infiltrators in which the abertzale left is now present, there are a few phases in the history of the last 40 years that have been due to them to forget or have not wanted to read them. And as in the last debate we had on this last week twice, we were rightly reminded that a part of the current Bildu is the one that represents not whether Eusko Alkartasuna, but of course who was its president and the lehendakari of all, Carlos Garaikoetxea, I will refer to the rules that that same lehendakari agreed. Because just as someone wants to erase episodes or break old photos, because we like to keep with great pride that of La Casilla, when Garaikoetxea and his predecessor at the head of the post of Lehendakari of the Basque General Council, Ramón Rubial, shared the joy of immense support for the Statute of Gernika, a statute with that popular push and clear rules on how to reform it. Read them, they're in your article 46. And there are those who demand the full fulfillment of that text, of course, and we recognize the part that touches us of the non-compliances. We demand it from the Government of Spain, and we demand it from each and every political force here. If we blame – and we do – President Rajoy who demands to comply with the statutory law in Catalonia and who does not comply with it in Euskadi, for the same reason we blame those who on a Thursday demand to comply with the Basque statutory law, like you, and on the following Thursday he asks us to skip it. In this we are in the Self-Government Paper, a paper born from the parliamentary mandate of 26 January last year, which literally says that "the paper will establish or agree on the most appropriate formula or procedure for the elaboration of a draft articulated text, which sets out a reform of the Statute of Gernika, respecting the legal order", line that you erase from your deepest consciousness. He adds: "The purpose of the formulation of these bases and principles is to update and renew self-government as an opportunity for a broad and plural majority of Basques and Basques to renew the political and social pact that will enable them to face the present and future challenges. "The self-government understood in a broad sense, contemplating, among other aspects, the consolidation and extension of social, economic or cultural rights, intergenerational solidarity, the design of the internal institutional architecture of Euskadi, with new forms of relationship between institutions and citizenship. "Also, this presentation will respect the political will democratically expressed by Basque citizens," and of course we do. "The political will democratically expressed by Basque citizens", which expresses to us on a proposal that the groups be able to agree and that they comply with the provisions of the current legal order, that same order that makes it possible for us to be here today to talk about this, the same one that confers on each and every one of the people, also to you, that we occupy the 75 seats in this House. To question it is to question our own legitimacy as representatives of the citizenry. That is why this Parliament must be rigorous in what it does, as will be sure a government where we Socialists are sitting; in fact, we are committed to doing so expressly when we signed the agreement that has allowed the agenda to focus on the concerns of the citizens, on their problems and to offer solutions. A commitment to a renewed pact that is processed in accordance with existing legal rules and procedures, with the aim of deepening democratic coexistence and advancing cohesion and social justice. With this eagerness, it is known that we have proposed that the persons entrusted with drafting the article take into account the previous failed experiences, those cited by the proposing group today, that of the one known as Plan Ibarretxe and the most recent one in Catalonia, because in both the problem will not be the will of the majority. The problem was that, from a statutory text, you want to try a covert constitutional amendment, something we have advocated that can be done and that you do not want to talk about that matter. As was graphically explained in a recent opinion article, this right to decide that you raise is not like regulating a divorce, a relationship between two; it is much more like deciding if you are doing works in your house tomorrow that affect the structure of the building, and, to do that, the opinion of all the neighbors of the community, of all of them, is required. For here too we need the opinion of the group of neighbors and neighbors of that building, which we decided to share and which is called Spain, I say that you make disappear from your vocabulary; that building which, through our Statute, you have agreed, representing the Basque citizenship, Garaikoetxea, Arzalluz, Rubial or Benegas, which has worn out materials – of course it is – but which in its arrangement cannot get rid of anyone. That is why, in the debate before us, we want to take into account that, in the project of coexistence and cohesion that we propose to renew, the procedures, legality, dialogue and consensus are as important, at least, as the contents; because what we want, among other things, is full legal certainty to expand rights, not to entangle ourselves in an endless node, in which victimism encamps for its breadth and in which one half of the population is left stupefied by what those who must try to solve their problems are doing. And that is where we want the new pact to recognize the plurality of identities and feelings, which exist in Basque society – they are not going to disappear – made up of women and men on an equal footing, who have managed to survive many things, including the terrorist strike, and who intend to clearly define the obligations of the public authorities to guarantee the rights to health, education, social protection, housing, the environment, full equality between men and women, transparency and participation in the management of public resources... That is our proposal, that is what we are going to continue to propose, the one with legal certainty, so that citizens will decide later whether or not to endorse it, with full democratic guarantees of respect for the majorities and the rules we have agreed, a viable coexistence pact, in which we, Mrs Iriarte, are going to remain committed and we also trust that it will be possible to reach that agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representative of the Basque Potulag, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u7	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Lehendakari jauna, ladies and gentlemen counselors and counselors, egun on guztioi. Mrs Iriarte, you will understand the surprise or perplexity that is awakening this initiative of yours in the formations, in the parliamentary groups, because last week you were adalids of constitutionalism defending the Statute of Autonomy and today you intend, without a solution of continuity, to change your speech and be the adalids to jump through the air. Well, someone might say that you are returning to the fold, but what seems more logical is that you are once again trying to remove, in an artificial way, a debate that is taking place with little success probably or with little results within the Self-Government Office to date, but that follows its path and follows the established procedure, by all accepted. The reality is that, just about six years ago, we decided – this House decided – to constitute the Ponence of Self-Government to reflect, to analyze, on the one hand, the statutory development and, on the basis of that analysis, well, to open a debate and a reflection that could result in a new status of autonomy, others have described it as legal status, good, etc., etc., and so on. And of six years to this part, for we can all agree also that little in clearness we have drawn, which also demonstrates, on the other hand, the difficulty that this House poses, among the parliamentary groups represented here, and therefore, also among the representatives of the Basques, finding an anchor and an intermediate point – to put it mildly – on where to go. What is necessarily not negative, but what also shows is that some responsibility can exist in a majority of parliamentary groups, understanding the difficulty of the debate and also understanding the negative derivatives that we are wrong and that deepening in a path of confrontation can provoke... the negative consequences – as I say – that it can cause for this political community, for this autonomous community. But one of the basic principles, around which we have articulated this debate, one of the basic principles around which the debates have taken place within this paper, has been, from the very first moment, first because we said it black on white and here it has been receded, but also because, in numerous political manifestations, some of them have insisted on it, in which in any case, that debate – the debate of the paper – would always lead to a text – if necessary, I insist, with all the preventions – that respected the current legal order. So far the agreement has allowed us both, regardless of the discomforts, difficulties and differences that exist in some of the subjects on which we are discussing – well, it is true that there was an agreement subject to many suspicions as to whether or not this principle was to be respected at the time of truth, this principle of accepting the current legal order when proposing a reform in its case of the Statute of Autonomy –... but it has allowed us to move forward, to pass the time, that we could go in a climate of confidence – I insist – small, but a climate of confidence, by which the different political formations did not feel entirely uncomfortable, because the governing partner of the Basque Nationalist Party – in this case the Socialist Party – go accepting certain things – listen, yes, yes; they say they are barbaric, but, in the end, the legal order will be accepted; we can, three quarters of the same; some more uncomfortable; we, of course, deeply satisfied with this principle, waiting for it to be altered, but we have been accepting it. That's where we went, as I tell you, moving on. What it cannot be is that this happens, from being a formal declaration, to being something that is maintained or not, depending on whether I am interested; that is, to accept the legal order. Because we are fully convinced – and I know you are not, gentlemen of EH Bildu, Mrs Iriarte – that overflowing the law is always the principle of tyranny. The tyranny, the impoverishment, the confrontation... And that this autonomous community has had its greatest share of progress and well-being, when it has articulated its coexistence, around the law, around norms that we have endowed ourselves with to live with, understanding the plurality of this society, understanding its difficulty and complexity. Therefore, in order to live together in a public space and also in institutions, the framework of which we have been endowed is something to preserve in order to avoid slipping through a terrain and a path of confrontation, and as I said before, that sure, always, and that tells us, experience, results in tyranny. Well, today EH Bildu intends to blow all this up. This principle around which we have articulated, I insist, in a way perhaps scarce, but we have articulated the debate for self-government, the principle of respect for the legal order, today EH Bildu intends to blow it up. We are not too surprised – let us be honest – but what is too surprised is that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to approve it. This is what is truly surprising, that you are going to endorse this non-law proposal, by virtue of which, through a non-law prospecting, a letter of nature is given to the possibility of amending the Spanish Constitution or the existing legal system – I insist – with the endorsement of a non-law proposal approved here today. That you're going to approve. They are going to give you an argument for the future to say, listen, that there is a non-legislative proposal in the Basque Parliament that says I can make my cape a saying. And whatever comes out of this paper, even legal and legal barbarity, we must respect it, which you will understand, Mr Egibar, is truly worrying. And what we want to say today is basically the following (because the rest of the arguments seem to be already well known and well known): if we go through this path of legal insecurity and, therefore, also of political insecurity, it is here in Euskadi where the conflict is going to awaken. It is here in Euskadi where the confrontation is going to awaken. It is here in Euskadi that we are going to break this climate of understanding or at least of social and political peace, which can be altered in a serious and serious way, as you continue to play with fire and continue to play with something that we are not going to allow, that is to alter, that is to break, that is to harm Euskadi, through the confrontation that is supposed to jump the law, that is to implement here the law also of the jungle. Because the consequences of this, of this game – which today is a game, which today is a mere political statement – can be very worrying. Look, Mrs Iriarte, the Basques know very well, Basque society knows very well, that not even with guns, not with threats, not with bombs, not even a terrorist organization over decades, was able to end the plurality of Basque society. They weren't capable. Today, an ETA already defeated, pretends to tell us to lower the blind, and seeks applause and thanks probably. But the objective reality is that they wanted to end our coexistence and our plurality. They did a lot of damage, obviously; they did a terrible damage to this land. ETA has done a lot of damage to Basques and Basques. ETA has done a lot of damage to this land, but it has not ended plurality, fortunately. A plurality that had its table of salvation and its attachment in respect for the law, in the fulfilment of the rule of law in all its extension. In the hope that we would always have the law and the rule of law to protect plurality and life and respect for coexistence. And today it is that rule of law, that respect for the law, that which has overcome and that which has triumphed and that which must continue to guide us in the future. And we are convinced that we must preserve that respect for the standards we have acquired here in Euskadi, but also in community with the rest of the Spaniards. And it's something that we're going to do everything in our hand to keep preserving it. There's no doubt about it! And that they are probably going to meet with many walls, and probably to skip the law and to burden themselves with coexistence, they are going to encounter many difficulties, but the main and the largest one is going to be here, in the Euskadi itself, which is going to be represented by the People's Party in the front line, but also by tens of thousands of Basques, who do not want to see the coexistence altered and who do not want to feel harmed in their own land. And to finish... If something has taught us the experience in Catalonia, of what we are living, it is that jumping the law is not innocuous. It is that to break the legal order, it is that to break the norms of which the political communities are endowed, it is not harmless, because it harms, as I said before, coexistence – and there is nothing more than to look at Catalonia today and see also the climate of coexistence that exists between the Catalans themselves – because it harms the economy and, therefore, it harms the social development and progress of a society. Skipping the law is not innocuous. And even if you believe, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, even if you believe, Mr Egibar, that supporting a non-law proposal – well, as it is a law proposal we will support it and so we gain oxygen and gain time for whatever it is – it is harmless, it is not. Because you are getting fat and you are facilitating and paving a path that leads us nowhere reasonable and positive. And this is something you may be playing with, and it's something you may think you can make calculations with. But again I insist on something that I have already told you on some other occasion: you cannot make calculations about what is unpredictable; you cannot play with the institutional stability represented in this House; you cannot play with social stability, the one that exists on the street because of the climate of understanding and progress that today, fortunately, unlike especially Catalonia, exists in Euskadi. And if you continue along this path, trying to make us look more like Catalonia and less like Euskadi, probably to you, short and medium, you think it is politically positive. But they have no doubt that this parliamentary group and other tens of thousands of Basques are going to have us on the other side, precisely: that of understanding and coexistence between Basques who think differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u9	Respect and make respect. It's not my words. These are the words of Zapopter, who afterwards became head of the Spanish government: Reshartre y haé respetar. And that's... Here the Catalonia has been repeated several times, and if you find a reference, right, right, it's the words he said to be the President of the Government. "I will accept what the Parliament of the Union shall decide, I will respect it, and make it respected." Perhaps if he had listened to it, or if he had fulfilled his promise, he would have been in a different situation in Catalonia at the moment. And I... Here, parlamentary groups have every right to present initiative. I don't choose whether PP should present himself to you, or whether he should present them to you. Well, here, everyone will have his own strategy. We, at least in politics, try to be consistent, as far as possible, and the decisions we make, as far as possible, consistent. I mean, in this initiative which is planned here today, there are two columns: it is said from one point of view that we must form a new political government by the hand of democratic principles, and that what is admitted may be respected. He says it all-Well, I think, as intention, resolution, or purpose, it is correct, and that we should all agree with it. Another question is, what sort of agreements we have got, why, on the one hand, we have mentioned, we shall be obliged to make by the law, if the state is to be changed, 46. it must be made from the hand of the article; but we have spoken of it over and over again, as well as of democratic grounds, principio de legalidad. Well, that is the frame, but the two fundamental principles, the columns, are quite democratic, that is, the project built on a democratic basis, and made it respected and respected. I don't see any flaw in that. I don't know what kind of sediment is left of all these debates, what remains of them, because then we'll have to build something between us all. I mean, it's clear that if we're to have the auto-organization to-day, we've put it in our writing, others don't see the same thing, we're thinking that we have to do these rights as a village, a political exercise. And we see at least, by the hands of historical rights, where this connection may be connected with the Constitution of Spain, whence it may be united, and where it is allowed to be concluded. Then it is clear that we must look at the question of ionkaKataunia, in order to admit of these political subjects that democratic procedures must be put into action, why the solution of the question in Katalunia is not only to make politics and to use the dialogue; in fact, the testimony of the demonstration on Sunday that followed is the key which puts that testimony on the table that they must give way to the men of the Catalunia, to decide their future, and to decide what political relations they would maintain in Spain. And to do this by the hand of negotiation, and by the hand of conversation; but without forgetting that this is the end, otherwise it is to conceal the matter. So when you say here that nationalization and socialization have been forgotten and that we are comfortable in this debate... the equality of nations and social institutions are two sides of the same coin; we do not understand each other without the other. And what's clear is that this town has gone through these economic, social, cultural rights in the past few decades. And that we have developed education, health, and even social protection, infrastructure, and our economy, and have advanced in the development of the eucalyptus which makes this people a people, and that we have been able to organize our finances and our economy. But what is clear is that we have come into another stage, where, starting from our auto-generacy, we must spread our auto-commynomy, strengthen, structured, respected autonomy, and that even this political or national surrender is indispensable. Therefore, when we have said that we must draw around these two columns, as far as we can, the future autogony, I think that these are very basic, and that all the parliamentary groups should be engaged in this engagement; What follows from this law as an agreement, that we should respect and respect in its proper chambers and places. I believe that these are the two principal pillars, and the anchlajes of the law, and the anchlacies of the democratic principle, which, if there is any political will. Therefore we see no problem in protecting this enterprise, on the contrary. And I'd like to think of the Autobergon board, the medium between projects and calendars, because from now on we're going to give each other the most discreet step we can get.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the day's answer, the spokesman of the EH Collector, Madam Irart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u11	Good morning, again. I think that this discussion which we have brought into this legislature today is very important to the future of this people. We declared that a great majority of this people, 76% of the legislature, ought to have a right to decide this people. In fact, we put that down. And why did we write it down, Mr. Lander Martínnez? What did we write him down for? So we can guarantee our social rights. That's the great obsession with the Basque Country Collect. No, don't look away. For that! But haven't you seen what experience has taught you before, Mr Martínnez? Haven't you seen what has happened to the state of Guernica, where, in order to defend our social rights, our culture, and all the rest, we've had to fight today, and to-morrow, our rights are torn off? What do you think? What does Podemus think? What you decide on here is to be respected in Madrid? Is that what you think? Do you think that what we decide here will bring us worse conditions? That's what surprises me. I can agree with almost all the propositions that Podemos makes on the table with almost all of them; I can agree with you very much, but what is clear is that what we need is a way of maintaining and blivating our decisions here, and that's what we're asking here today. Mr. Pastor, to deep down the car, I don't think 155 brings us any help. And I'll tell you something else. if the matter be to keep the word, it was before Philip Gonzále and also Mr. Zapater, who did not keep his word. And probably if they had kept their word, we wouldn't be saying what we're saying at the moment about the state of Guernica, and also to fill up a number of passages he has to fill. And, indeed, Mr. Pastor, the works, when works are done in a building, are decided by their neighbors, but not those of the portal in front, only those of the same portal and quite a mess usually have, in fact, but those of the portal in front are left to see them come. With which, with this you have not convinced me. Otherwise, there seems to me to be a separation and frustration about this subject, and I think we must really get out of separation and frustration. And that this separation and frustration is derived, because some feel that they have the cause of the Common-wealth here. And the reason of the Common-wealth is very effective, but remember, that the Reason of the People, and the Strength of the People, is really effective; which ought to command us. And to cancel or not transcend legality, violation... There's legality to overcome, legality to go to other legalities. Or what do you think? When they began from Feudalism to build or govern the legislatures, they passed from the legalities to another legality, in a settled manner, as broad as possible... But, no doubt, to pass from one legality to another, it is done. I've said it over and over and over and over again, and I'll say it again, and I won't be bored: Recalling the Basque Country is making a big deal to ensure and protect our rights. And, Mr Martínez, you made a judge to decide who was a caste and who wasn't. This is caste Kaspa Another thousand times, however, which I have said to the Jeltist Party, but which I shall say a thousand times over: I have already observed that we are in harmony with the diagnosis, and that we may make a road together, and that the doing of this road would satisfy the desire of a great majority of the people of the Basque Country, and that we would make an effort to enlarge them and give them stability to this people. Let the prediction of a worse phantom than any other, do not give oxygen to 155, for fire does not burn without oxygen, and fire is extinguished without oxygen. This country has been able to survive, this people has been able to get us all this way, and I think it's our responsibility to give it a turn, and to show that it's our responsibility. Thank you, and always remembering we can't accept any bait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u13	Well, I'll insist, Mrs. Iriart. Zeren ez dugu gaur izan, oraindik, oraindik, argudio bat ere exacten duena edo demonstratezen duena gaur hemen hartu ahal izango duzuen akordioa duela urtebete egin genuen akordioa bath hobeagoa denik. There is still no solvent argument to show that this agreement is better for Basque citizens than it was a year ago. Ez da demonstratu, ezta ere, gaurko akordioak eduki sozialagoak izango dituenik, ezta ere ez da demonstratu, has not been demonstrated today that the agreement is more firm in defense of the decisions of Basque citizenship than that of a year ago. It has not been explained what is gained by an agreement that makes a political agreement smaller than that of a year ago, and today what are irrefutable truths contrasts with another question: if Basque citizenship wins nothing with today's agreement, who wins? And what does he gain? For us, it has become clear that the winner is the PNV, he wins to whiten his pacts with the People's Party, taking a picture with you today with a sovereignist profile. Just as it has become clear that the Basque left does not win anything today with this agreement: neither firmness in defending democratic principles nor greater quotas of social content. And if you agree so much with us, well, I'd be grateful at least for having been more willing to make an arrangement today, because in the end we could... I think we introduced a logical correction that put the last year's agreement on the table and we haven't even had a chance to have this on the table and negotiate it. So there's a big difference there, isn't there? But you asked us here to make it clear, and I'll say, I'll put my convictions on the table: Lehenengoa, the first, is our absolute commitment to uphold the democratically expressed will of Basque citizens. The second, commitment to making the new statute the best statute for citizenship ensuring that social rights are safeguarded, that employment, education, public health, income guarantee, social inclusion, real and effective equality of women and men are safeguarded. And the third, a commitment to promoting broad, plural and cross-cutting majorities, the majorities that Basque society needs. And to do this, we are not going to participate in any dynamic fronts or blocks, just as we are going to denounce any attempt to veto or block the Basque Socialist Party or the People's Party. Perhaps you'd like to bring the Catalan model here. We believe that Euskadi has a path of its own – it is legitimate, we believe that Euskadi has a path of its own – and we have no doubt about the model that we have and that we want. Our model, from the very beginning – and it has not changed; we have been firm in that – has been the Canadian, has been that of the consultations agreed, bilateral and negotiated. And there we go. Moreover, from here I can say that we will continue there and, if at any time you come to that conclusion, to the same conclusion, for we will welcome you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u15	Look, Mrs Iriarte, I must confess to you that I am a little bored with these debates so transcendent and apocalyptic, where we play little less than the future of humanity every time you bring a proposal to this Parliament, and the truth is that it is not, because the discussion must be a little simpler. You are filled with words about democracy, but you should know – and you know it too – that democracy is also rules, that there is no democracy that works without rules, because the democracies that they want to call themselves but have no rules end either in dictatorship or in anarchism – I almost prefer the second to the first – but it is often that they end up in one-of-a-kind thought regimes, because there are no rules precisely, because everyone's rights are not respected. And then that kind of binomial that you make automatic between sovereignty and social progress, for let me tell you it's absolutely false. They come to say: what Spain does is bad, not because the right or the left do it, not because Spain does it. And if we did it only the Basques would be great, wonderful; for no sir. We have thousands of examples, unfortunately, in Europe, where under the umbrella of defending national sovereignty, real social barbarities are being proposed and made, and they are very sovereign and defend national pride, national pride and their homeland more than anyone else, but they are making real barbarities. That is, because Basque sovereignty was full that is no guarantee per se. Therefore, it does not depend on the territorial framework, but on the political ideology that sustains it, because here it is good that we still rescue a little bit the subject of ideologies, because they still exist, even though they are in low hours, and it is not the same thing that they govern one or that they govern another, either in one framework or in the other. Then I know that you have dedicated yourself here to courting Mr. Egibar a little, as in the song, "support in the madness of the applebean", to see if you could seduce him or try to bring the water to his mill, right? But, finally, then you were criticizing me for the simile I was doing on the portal. It is that it gives me the same as the portal next to where the matter arises; the case is that both portals share the same community of neighbors, have a common roof and have shared public spaces and, therefore, those of the first portal cannot decide to demolish the roof or lift the sidewalks, because it affects all the other portals of the same community. I live in one of them and you sure as well... Maybe you live in a single house, but if you live in a community of neighbors that have rules, that have statutes that govern coexistence, you can't make your cape a saying, when one day you cross your vein and say, "I'm going to change the windows and now I'm going to tear down the roof, I'm throwing the gutters and where there was a parking space"; you can't. You simply cannot, because that is to despise the rest of the neighbors, who have the same right as you to think about what is done in your community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Basque Popular, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, I would like to raise a previous point, because you have repeated it on several occasions, today too. It is not a question of the People's Party – I am not going to speak for the Socialist Party – imposing a veto on anything. It is that we are opposed radically and firmly to Euskadi sliding down the path of Catalonia. You call it veto or whatever you want, but we are in our legitimate political position, it would be more difficult, to oppose us forcefully and radically. With force and radicality that Euskadi, I insist, does not go on that path of confrontation and economic and social impoverishment therefore. Mr Egibar said that it was clear that he could not decide what non-legislative proposals the other political groups presented, but what he should do, in any case, was to position himself coherently around those non-legislative proposals. I ask you where the coherence is Mr Egibar in the following: today you are going to vote in favour of – without amendment – demanding the Spanish state – says EH Bildu – that "the agreement that derives from this process of debate will be a reflection of free will...", goes, goes, goes, goes, goes, "be recognised democratically and respected in its entirety", complies with the law or does not comply with it. Where is the consistency between supporting this and affirming what we have said on numerous occasions, that what is done, must respect the legal order? Of course, I don't mean to say, listen, I present a document that doesn't comply with the law, amend the law to make the document fit. Of course, that is not to respect the law, Mr. Egibar, that is to adapt the world to my pretensions. And it doesn't work that way... But this, I think we'd gotten over it by the time we were teens. Look, there are some rules that we're gifted with to live with that we respect and, if they don't like, they change. But they don't change because I want to, but they change in community, by mutual agreement, and also where to do it. But this seems basic! And besides, once again entering the field is the principle of legality, the democratic principle... Let us see, I think it is important to make one thing clear: they cannot be dissociated; it is that there is no democratic principle if there is no principle of legality. It is that democracy emanates from a legal order that allows coexistence between different, from norms that we equip ourselves with for democracy to be effective and full. I don't mean to say, listen, look, here we add three, four, today circumstantially, and we change, I skip the law because I think it is. But I insist, we've seen it in Catalonia. But it is also a principle established in the wide world, primarily in the developed world. And I'm not sorry to tell you in Europe. And then, on this, there is no debate possible. Look, the principle that prevails in a legal system in a democratic and legal state such as ours is respect and compliance with the legal and legal order that we have endowed ourselves with to live with. This is basic, I said it, and I remembered it more correctly than I did, Mr. Pastor. And from here on out, we can talk about almost anything, but always observing this principle. And Mr Egibar has also glossed over the progress of autonomy. And it is true and that part I have shared, that is, Euskadi has advanced in these 40 years as never before in his history. He's had the opportunity and we've had the opportunity to manage ourselves, to self-manage ourselves with skills we've never had before. And we have also experienced social and economic progress, I insist, unprecedented in our history. That, in fact, has allowed us to have a public health that is a reference, allows us to have an educational system, a police of our own, a fiscal system, that is, a level of virtually full autonomy. And Mr. Egibar said, "But we're already in another phase." That is to say, it is no longer valid, we must continue to feed the ongoing conflict and demand, and we are now at the national stage. You said that, at the stage of national recognition. Well, for starters, look, we think we're in a different phase, actually. But we're in a phase of seeing what we do with what we have. Hey, this week PISA is being evaluated, they're doing PISA exams in the education system. What reforms has this government made to the education system? None. How will we ensure a future in which we continue to maintain our level of social protection and health, as I said before, as a reference in our environment? How are we going to do this in an ageing population, and which also has remarkable and important demographic challenges? Why do these kinds of things not lead the debate in this House? Why aren't we at that stage already, discussing these things that really make us modern and make us a nation? These are, in our view, the things that we must discuss. What fiscal economic reforms we are doing, so that, for example, young people do not continue to leave this land, and continue to have opportunities here. Is that, uh, flying a bigger flag they're gonna stay? Or do we have to give opportunities in this land so that they can stay and not freak out – sorry –, all of them, or most of the young people, who don't see opportunities in this land and leave? Is it through conflict, really, is it through confrontation, the non-observance of the norm that we have given ourselves, how we will get young people to see here an opportunity for the future? Or uncertainty, if we go that way. And I shall now finish, Madam President, with a reference to Mrs Iriarte. Here he has spoken of feudalism and has come to say, of course, that there has also been a change of legality, no, of the feudal system. Look, in 1789, with the French Revolution, what happens, among other things – in addition to other events – is that, in fact, what happens to govern the lives of modern states and citizens is the rule of law, precisely what you want to blow up today. Let's do some pedagogy, because we can't accept almost anything. What happens after the French Revolution is that the Church, the army and the nobility cease to command, cease to have the power, which becomes resident in the democratic institutions of which modern states are endowed to live, on the basis of the principle of legality, the observance of the law. This is what happens, and this is what you want to load...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u18	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u19	... They want us back to a feudal system, in which I don't know who, by having some right – go to know which one – it commands over parliaments that pass the laws to live together. And this cannot be, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u21	Mr. Semper, so much appeal that we're making impossible... I think we should start, for example, from the resolution adopted by the Basque Parliament last week. If you want to listen to me, Mr. Semper. [[Barres]] Last week's resolution on statutory non-compliance 39 years later identified the problem, and systematic non-compliance is evident and flagrant. What you call in the way that you do, placing the Basque Nationalist Party, the Government, the lehendakari, respect for legality, at least after all that has been found in the part that touches them, of course, the reflection is, in addition to disrespectful, unjust, and it is sarcastic. So many appeals from those who have systematically failed to comply with an organic law, such as the Statute of Autonomy. Why that has something to do with it. They used to say to me: el 155 y a ver el Parto Nationalist Vasco por dónde anda por donde caminao o va a caminar en el futuo. Mrs. Iriart, 40 years, the last 40 years in daily culture and daily national training, knowing that we're a part of a town and that all those people who are citizens in it should be respected for 40 years in their daily homes and in their daily business. That was our way. Even if we look at the future, to be consistent, we must play it that way. There is one concept that I have observed and carefully analyzed when we have also discussed here many times about the human rights of all people, when we were talking and talking about the concept of living together and co-existing. I believe that also transferred to what is the relationship between peoples, is what we have to address in a consensual, democratic way: to bet on living together from respect and recognition between peoples and not coexisting, that coexisting can coexist in subordination, supremacy or imposing one upon the other. Is it so difficult to seek cohabitation formulas that they involve respect and recognition among political subjects? And I'm not going to hide or take refuge in the argument of national construction. We're talking about social construction, Mr. Lander Martínez. Territory without people is landscape. We build society, we build a country, we build a society as fair as possible, on the basis of progress and social justice. They are two sides of the same coin, national construction and social construction. But well, like that repeated appeal that it seems that the tern of the essences is territorial, no, no. Land without people is landscape; we will like it more or less, but it is landscape. It is the people who constitute the peoples. That is why we believe that, from the configuration of respect among peoples, we must also seek formulas of coexistence. Some link we will have with the Spanish State; it is obvious. But if we seek formulas of coexistence, it will be from respect and recognition, not from subordination. And those are the formulas we're presenting. The Basque Nationalist Party has made a concrete proposal in the Self-Government Paper and, of course, there is going to be a link, there is going to be a link. Now, is it from recognition and respect or is it from subordination? That is the issue, that is the debate. And we have an impressive opportunity to take advantage of it. Of course, we are going to put our condition and effort in the effort to reach an agreement as broad as possible and, of course, we agree, without vetoes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 17. White, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u23	So the other proposal was accepted legally. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, about the reductions of public employees from the year 2010. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u24	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. In recent years, the public euscal workers have suffered the restrictions they have never seen, the restrictions never seen, and the source of these restrictions has been derived from the state by the decrees of the king. Those decrees of the king's law were admitted by PSOE and PP in their time, and among them is the first and most remarkable Description of the law of King 8/2010, and this decree is what we wish to abolish today, and therefore we have introduced our enterprise to abolish it. We want to repeal Royal Decree-Law 8/2010, a Royal Decree-Law that has been the most restrictive in terms of cuts to public workers and the one that has established perennial effects today. It has not been the only real decree-laws passed by the State to secure cuts to the civil servant, but it has been the most restrictive and perennial effect. It resulted in the freezing of pensions; it led to cuts in the Unit Act; it led to the suspension of the government-union agreements; and it led, inter alia, to a 5 per cent reduction in the salaries of Basque public workers. There was more. There was another in 2011, which ended with 35 hours a week, which froze the opposition, which caused the amortization of the places of all retired workers. There was another in 2012, which led to an additional cut in leave and leave, the loss of salary for those who were on medical leave. All these royal decree-laws, all of them, were linked to the approval of the General Budgets of the State, each and every one of them; General Budgets of the State, equal to cuts. The spirit of these royal decree-laws, moreover, was that of the attribution to the State of exclusive jurisdiction on the basis of the statutory regime of officials, article 149 of the Constitution. This attribution of exclusive competence was used as an excuse, it is being used as an excuse, to regulate everything: permits, hours, medical discharges, salaries, extra payments... It's all settled. And it is this spirit that is based on the unconstitutionality appeal that the government is trying to put against the 2018 Euskadi Budgets. What has been, what has been, the response of the Basque Government at every moment? The first, to apply these cuts without questioning them, without questioning them, and the second, to apply even new cuts not contemplated in its day by the State, such as, for example, to reduce the salary of workers of Basque public enterprises by 5%, something that did not include the state legislation and that it had to be the Constitutional Court itself that would bring it down, with a ruling in 2015. What is it, not just the song 'Modick', but the Jelters' part of this thing? Well, he showed in this matter two different aspects: On the one hand, in a loud voice, he has been strongly accused of the resources imposed by the Spanish Government, the opposite of the euphora budgets have been seen in Æscal days; but, on the other hand, he has been eight years in silence in front of these royal columns, which have been reduced to a scale. And to-day, in front of our enterprise, the Jesuits and the other parties must choose: or for the reductions and budgets of the Populative Party, or for the public workers of euscal. The role of the PNV in this whole process has been to have a clear double morale: on the one hand, they have denounced strongly and high the government's competitive interference in the capacity of Basque self-government, and, on the other hand, they have accepted, they have complied with the tax cuts that were appropriate for them to apply. They have shown that it is not their priority to work against cuts to Basque workers, that it is not their agenda to work conditions for public workers, that it is not their agenda to recover 35 hours for the Basque teacher, that it is not their agenda to pay judges, prosecutors and justice staff. This double speech by the Basque Nationalist Party to denounce, on the one hand, the use by Rajoy of legal instruments to limit self-government, and to silence, however, in the face of the cuts imposed with these same legal tools, no longer takes place. The moment of the half inks is over; the game with double decks is over. Not only the PNV, all the groups in this House will have to decide today whether they are with the People's Party and with cuts linked to the General Budgets of the State, or with the Basque public workers. You decide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u26	Mrs. President, Mr. Erkorek, good day to all the members of the legislature. Well, I didn't know I was in Congress or I was in the law, listening to the Beeteen. In the interpenetration of our 35 hours of work, I told Mr. Erkorek that he was in the same state as the Decree's Decoration of the Decoration Center, and that more and more, the Gardenor, the General Eletrics, like Siemenes. It became a company of Madrid government, I'm afraid. To play the trick, Well, sometimes they let us decide a few crumbs of bread, and then I'll come in later on to explain it to you, with the facts. And Mr. Becerra, from the suggestions you bring to us today and often to this legislature, we have the impression of what you want to make Congress an adversary of Congress, but you are against the opposition, right? That's what I was thinking. You do not mention any measure of your proposal from our determination, from our responsibility, from our collective negotiations, from the frame of our labours, to make our public function available. Como si no existence. Viva España, right! Then I wonder: Would it not, therefore, be more reasonable to avoid doubling from a view of efficiency, from the point of view of the rationalization of the public money, if the government of Spain is the axis, if we are to form ourselves in the decisions received in Madrid, to dissolve this government, to dissolve the legislative, and to act according to what is decided in Congress? Wouldn't it be wiser, simpler? Is that so? I'm just saying... Besides, we could save a lot of public money, among other things. Here on the basis, at the stake... What we have for a long time now is the capacity for taking our own decisions, the ability to decide on the daily food that bothers you, the frame of our work purposes, the frame of our collective negotiation, our society, our public system, our public function... the ability to regulate and organize. That's the game. And unfortunately, by degrees, the President Urkullu, chief of the Erkorek, the Vice Chief of Cereitas, with the rest of them, are becoming delegates to the Spanish Government, De Andrés paper, function... they are filling it up. That's what's happening at the moment: It is only by negotiation of what they leave in Madrid, with our people and workers and the workers of the public function, or by making measures directly, and dancing and moving in our own community, in the music that is played in Madrid. And the Spanish Government doesn't give a shit about the state of Guernica, our competitions, the little autogony that they've left us so far. It's been some time since we've been intervented in some way or other through the reforms that have been made. It doesn't take 155, it's just to see what's happened in the past few years: a profound centralization, and a diminution of our powers. And because of different reasons, some of which have been shared in the government as part of the government or of the funk, because they shared the model, and said it was easier to say that these measurements came from Madrid and had to apply, or that the party that had been in the government during the decades shared in Spain was a detailed section of negotiation in the budgets of Spain, with our contributions, our powers... It's negotiated. And that, whether you like it or not, has had some consequences. He's had some consequences, and it's not just for our loss, but Madrid's moved very comfortably and learned how to move, even though some people think we've got benefits here. But now we have the time to reflect on all this, and to go really to the root of it, when in our society with Mr. Egibar, I was entirely in harmony with the people and the people who worked in our country. For at the present moment all this has come to the prejudice of our fellow-citizens, and only to see what is going on. Look, this is a big theater. It's a big play, and it's just to see what happened last time in the Spanish government, and it's fun, or when Mr. Ortuzar comes in on the stage, when's on the schedule, okay? And we have a nice example of the officials. Up to the %1 solvation at 5%. Yeah? A very nice example of what happened in this measure. EAJ introduced it into budgets, took it with PP's protection, but he didn't force it to wait for the Spanish budgets, or else to apply it. But unfortunately there have been interference in the diary: Catalonia Procés But this time, Katalunia has made EAJ very difficult to maintain Rajoy's government. But, well, we'll see what happens tomorrow in Congress and we'll have more clues in hand. That is to say, EAJ sells %1,5 as if it were already the same size, when it is already in Spain, and there is another interval given to all the communities for the average rise of 0.20 and 0.30, where they are always respected by the cost rules and budgets, even if, in the first quarter of 2019, the Gordine product climbs up into the Interior in the 2018's salary. And so it is with the elements: It's already agreed to pay 100% of Madrid. So at the table of the Education of yesterday, even when it was not yet agreed on in the general table, this was offered to them. Yesterday, there was the Board of Education, and even at the Board of Education, was also said of the public offers: If they accept Madrid, jobs will be added. And what does Madrid say? Well, the reposition rates remain, but within the bounds of priority There'll be an option huunda, an education, a police officer. Whether to increase from 50% to 100%, or the police, %1 to increase to 15 if always the rules set by Madrid are fulfilled. So the framework of collective negotiation is Spain, the frame of business is Spain, and gradually, conscious or not, it loses our little self-generacy, and it's going to be a very short time, putting our hands on sale. And no respect for the state of Guernica is so proclaimed. How long? And that's what I'm saying, not getting involved in the process of independence. So, Mr. Becerra, it seems to me very well, from the Spanish point of view, to request that the legal order of laws, which has had negative consequences, has been reduced to a constraint of rights. Okay... But that's it? Since we're responsible, we don't have to do anything? Do we have to look the other way? Do we always have to order outside? That could work in Congress. You're in Congress, most of us here are in Congress. So, with the hands we have, with the powers, in the general table, in the other areas, what are we to do? Aren't we going to do anything? We think that we are right, and therefore have expressed our correction, because we can do many things in order to turn the restrictions, to answer our fellow-citizens, not to play with questions of food, and give them suitable answers. In short, to defend our capacity of decision. We think we can start from there without looking at the others. Yeah? And now we're at a crossroads, and we're all supposed to place the game-field in EAE. We should get him here from Madrid and we could play our responsibilities and start the game. Why should we continue to support the state based on corruption? Why do we have to keep going? It seems to us that we have other options here to play in a different manner, and that we ought to make some law, because the government and we are also responsible for the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counselors. Today the Elkarrekin group We can bring us a debate about, I believe, the biggest slap that officials, public workers, from all over Spain, thanks to that Royal Decree-Law 8/2010, of 20 May. A disastrous measure, which put a wreath on disastrous policies that had led the State to the most absolute ruin, to the destruction of jobs, to the breakdown of family economies, to the destruction of the business fabric; in short, to the total ruin of the country and to the greatest debt we had ever received, generating on top of us such high risk premiums that, by continuing to buy debt, it was practically impossible – or making that debt impossible – to repay for the interests that had to be paid. The worst measure you have ever taken, I believe, is a government vis-à-vis public officials. That approach, Mr Becerra, we share, just as EH Bildu has said so far that he shares it: it was a harmful measure. A measure that was drafted, not to alleviate a temporary situation; it is a measure that came to stay, and you have meant it very well, Mr Becerra. Because it was not a measure that frozen pensions temporarily, or for a period of time, not; it did so indefinitely. It was not a measure that retracted 5% of the country's public workers' pay during that year, no; it did so forever. It was not a measure that withdrew birth aid for that year, no; it withdrew it forever. It was a measure that came late and bad, because they wanted to close their eyes to the crisis situation in the country. A crisis situation that was not unique, from Spain; it was a global crisis situation, a financial crisis that for years had undermined the economy of all the states in our environment, but that here, at all times, had been denied. And all the policies that were being undertaken were, precisely in the opposite direction, to make the hole bigger. In fact, you, Mr Becerra, have associated this royal decree-law with general state budgets, and that I no longer share. I do not share it, because the actual decree-law was precisely to modify the general budgets of the State, which were the instrument that the Government of José Luis Rodríguez had at the time to correct the situation in the country, and which were precisely to the contrary. And a few months after approving them, he had to take these steps, to try to paliate the hole. By the way, a measure which, apart from drastic and frankly harmful, not only for public workers and pensioners, served absolutely nothing, because the hole continued to grow. It was not only a question of reducing expenditure, but what had to be done logically was to encourage economic activity, which in the end is what gives revenue to public administrations to carry out their function. But if the analysis of the disastrous measure, Mr Becerra, we do share it, what we cannot share is the recipe that you propose today, not even the one that EH Bildu, through Mrs Ubera, has put us on the table with your amendment. We do not share it, because simply repealing that royal decree-law would not at all restore the lost purchasing power to officials, to all workers in the public sector. Not only to the Basques, as you say in your amendment, but, in general, to all those who affected at the time, about 13% of the working population. That we insist on, delayed them that 5% during that 2010 and the other eight years after that measure was taken. That wasn't going to give them back that money they stopped collecting. At all events, that derogation was not going to save that problem. We must go to other solutions; we must go to other ways, and, therefore, Mr Becerra, from the People's Group we cannot support the initiative that has brought us to the table, to be debated today. And the less we can defend the position or support or approve the position proposed to us by EH Bildu, which forces the government to unilaterally break the law: calculate the money that all these public workers stopped receiving and immediately take it to the General Bureau and return it to the public workers. Two considerations. I was very grateful when you said that they are taking that debate where they are at the General Committee. I thought, and Mr Erkoreka could correct me, that in the General Bureau those who are represented are the government and the representatives of the workers, not the representatives of the citizens. I did not know, and I hope that if they are the representatives of the citizens, the People's Group will invite us to those meetings and to those negotiations. For she has said that her group is there; I do not know through whom or representing what interests. I thought it was the workers', trade unions' and company's table – in this case, the Basque Government – not the citizens' representatives. And that's why we never attend. I have tried to do a calculation, from the seat, and I am not very good at these things, but more or less I think I remember that Chapter I of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for this year was slightly more than EUR 2 billion, 5%, I reckon, which will be over EUR 100 million. If we retreat to the fact that this began to have effect in 2010, nine exercises have passed; therefore, what EH Bildu is asking you to put in 900 million euros this year and pay them directly to the public workers who have stopped receiving that money. That, in addition to skipping legality, is barbaric, because it's asking for an impossible. I do not believe that the Government will be able to pay EUR 900 million as early as April, of what we have to implement this budget. It is absolutely ruinous that position, to come here to protect workers' rights and ask for things that are illegal and things that cannot be carried out because they are materially impossible. That is why we are not going to support the amendment that has been tabled to us either. I propose another way: the People's Group is concerned about the interests of public workers, the People's Group, which belongs to the People's Party, is concerned about the interests and loss of purchasing power perpetrated by socialist governments on the part of public workers. And that is why an agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Public Administration and the trade union representatives of all workers, and this agreement foresees a series of increases, which in three years would mean an increase of about 8.8 of the wage mass of public workers. That is an effective measure to regain the purchasing power of public workers, and it would start with the 1.75 % foreseen in the State General Budgets that are currently being debated in the competent body, the Congress of Deputies. I encourage all groups to support the processing of budgets and, with that, we will be able to regain, in part, the purchasing power that the public workers lost after such a disastrous measure and that we all have in mind. Fortunately, the citizens gave them an electoral slap; they had to leave the government after ruining the state, but they did not manage to bring it to bankruptcy and the country did not have to intervene, because then we would be talking about cuts of 20, 30 or 40% – not that fateful 5% – of a reduction in pensions, not an indefinite freeze, as they did at the time. Time to time. Economic recovery is moving forward; jobs are no longer lost. At that time 3,400,000 jobs were lost in the private sector. Here today we are debating 5% loss of the wage mass of public workers; 3,400,000 people lost, not 5%, 100% of their wages. We must not forget: those wrong policies, those decisions that are so harmful... They led to the ruin of this country. Let us work to the contrary; let us support the necessary measures, and let us look at that 8.8% increase in wages for the next three years, if the measures that the Administration has already agreed with the trade unions, not at the General Bureau, but at the meetings held in the Ministry of Public Administration, are fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u30	10 May 2017. The parliamentary group of Elkarrekin Podemos registers in the House of the Basque Parliament a non-law proposal for the repeal of Royal Decree 8/2010. According to their own justification, they say they want the quickest and easiest solution to reverse the cuts applied to the public service. A measure, which they justify, must be undertaken at the state level. 10 May 2017. To be such a simple and quick solution, it has taken you 11 months to bring it to the debate in this House, because, in Congress, you are neither expected nor expected with this measure. This Parliament has already had the opportunity, at the request of other political groups, to discuss the recovery of the working conditions of the civil servant: the most recent was in November 2017. And from this rostrum, the socialists were saying that we thought we shared, with the rest of the political groups, that the objective to pursue was to have an effective administration that provides quality services, because for us the provision of quality services is to recognize citizenship rights, it is an expression for exercising solidarity, equality and social cohesion. And in that debate we already had the opportunity for some to give a view of the measures that were taken in the field of public service, and each one stays on the date that interests him, right; some go down here and stay in the first decree, as if that was the only one that existed and we do not remember what was known as the "Fridays of Pain", period 2018-2016, which some do not want to mention, and today we speak exclusively of the Royal Decree 8/2010. Well, I'm not going to start telling you the subject of what economic situation he was in, not Spain – which we seem to forget, which was not Spain – Europe and even at international level; the United States was also... There began the recession. We had expansionary policies; all countries implemented expansionary policies and fiscal stimulus packages, which managed to alleviate or minimize the negative effects of the recession, but which had a consequence and was the increase in the deficit. The debt figures have moved in relatively high numbers and this has changed, by the action of the capital markets, into a solvency problem, which has triggered, not in Spain, but at European level and under the circumstances of other countries – which we all know and I do not think we should mention – the adoption of a mechanism that required all the countries in the European arc to speed up fiscal consolidation and deficit reduction measures. In that context, and not in another context, Royal Decree-Law 8/2010 had to be applied. And yes, we have taken measures that we can all say, without a doubt, that were not desired by anyone, not even by the governments that had to apply them, by anyone, but that were necessary in the context of the crisis in which they had to be adopted. And it is true: sacrifices and efforts have been demanded, but not only of officials, but of all workers in general and of society. And now, you will understand, Mr Becerra, that I cannot share with you that manifestation that makes me in your justification, and that you have also made it clear here, that the cabinet of the lehendakari Patxi López took a submissive stance, applying the cuts – he says in his justification – even with a higher rigour than was adopted at the state level, and you know that that is not true. Nothing further from reality, because what the Socialist Government did is to apply an adjustment table of its own, which was different from that applied by the Central Executive, to ensure greater progressiveness, because we understood that in those intermediate sections that were proposed there was not a principle of equity or progressiveness, and there were some sections that with lower income had a higher cut than others that charged more. Thus, the reduction fork that was applied here in the Basque Country was from 0.56% to 8%, which was applied to members of the government. Therefore, the 5% reduction was mediated with other concepts of what was considered wage mass, and you also know that, in such a way, and that data can be collected, that the average reduction was around 2.86 %. Therefore, the data do not corroborate – or, at least, they refute – that you try to say in your justification. However, I will share the last thought you have given in your proposal, in the sense that the situation today is very different. True, today we are not in that situation; we are in a process of economic recovery. It is a process and a situation in which changes have to be made and in which steps must be taken so that workers, not only in the public sphere, but also in the private sector, can recover the working conditions they had at the time. It is a reflection that is also not alien in this forum, because if you remember, already about a year ago, in May 2017, we reached a compromise agreement with EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, to which you did not want to join, to demand that those macroeconomic data, which were being positive, should already be transferred to the real economy, through collective bargaining between employers and trade unions, so that there would be a widespread rise in the wages of the workers. That didn't seem enough to you, and you didn't want to be with us. And then, in the debate we had in November, a proposal was also approved by this Parliament between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which also established that it is through collective bargaining at the General Bureau of the Civil Service. – as others of the proposers have already said very well – where the proposals for wage increases must be given, which we share that they must be made. And you will not escape that, since 2016, agreements have been reached to go and recover working conditions that were lost: those of days, those of additional days of leave... That is not what I say; the unions told us here in attendance, and I already remembered it in this rostrum in November. We've had three years of pay increments after five years of freezing, five. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, five years, five years! I mean, 2010 was a year and then there's five. I mean, because it seems a little hypocritical to me that you say that this was a permanent action, when you in 2012 could have taken the decision perfectly, because you were in absolute majority and needed no one, to have reversed that cut, if you were both against it and to have applied the following years the minimum pay increments of the CPI, which you did not even give to public pensions. So hypocrisy and cynicism, the righteous, from the rostrum. And we all knew – and we all know – that when you are in government and you have to meet certain conditions, there are decisions that you may or may not like, but that sometimes you have to make, and some take them at one place and others take them at another, because you tell me about the effort that was asked of public officials. But you don't remember what workers were required to do when they were reduced in unemployment coverage, or when labour reform was made, or when the Fogasa covers less of the amounts they have to receive if the workers are fired and their business is insolvent. Those do not seem to you to be the most vulnerable in the crisis; it must have seemed to you only to be the cut in the civil service. Not even the pharmaceutical co-op... I mean, I would have to remind you of the "Fridays of Pain," I think I remember, of a period of almost three years, that is to say... We said it then, Mr Becerra, and we are going to say it now: we believe that the direction in which action should be taken by the Administration is to take action, within that collective negotiation with the trade unions representing public officials, so that the working conditions which at the time had to be referred back can be recovered... Not only here; we care about the officials here, but also those of the rest of the state, so we also do not share Mrs Ubera's presentation here. I conclude, in conclusion – and I believe that you also share it, or at least do not know it – by pointing out that the repeal or not of this royal decree-law has no practical effect on the recovery of the working conditions of the officials, but that it is through other instruments – and Mr Ruíz de Arbulo wanted to launch it here, to tell him that this is linked to the budget laws – where the margins apply to us, indeed, that could also be a good place for some other party, some other parliamentary group that intervenes here but then legislates in the State, to give us that space to be able to do here other issues that you consider to be fundamental to the public service. With that of slapping, because we do not give slaps, and let us let the working day be negotiated here; let us let the issue of the salary recovery of the officials be negotiated; let us allow the subject of public offers of employment for rates of replacement and improvement of interinity... Do everything, where? In that law of budgets which you have submitted and which for the moment does not collect, and what you have done is to initiate a process for a remedy of unconstitutionality. That would be where we might believe that you really have an interest in the public service, but, of course, from this rostrum and the way you have done it, you cannot convince us. That is why the Socialist Group, because of its lack of practical effects, is not going to support the proposal brought by Elkarrekin Podemos, and we will abstain from it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Madame Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u32	, ladies: Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. "The cuts applied to the workforce of public employees of the Basque Government since 2010". This is the title of the initiative that Elkarrekin Podemos has brought us for your debate. However, if we go to the body of the proposition, we see that only a standard is appointed as the cause of those cuts and as a solution for them. A rule which, as has been said, has been fully exceeded, and they call for its repeal, its repeal of the Congress of Deputies, in particular the Royal Decree-Law 8/2010 of 20 May, which provides for extraordinary measures for the reduction of the public deficit. Our position has always been clear. From the beginning we showed our rejection of this royal decree-law; we did it in 2010, and we do it again here today, 8 years later. We did it in the Congress of Deputies and we also did it in this Parliament. We even did it before we could exist. It was true that action had to be taken in 2010; it was in a crisis situation, and adjustments had to be made. However, we do not share the form, because we understand that it was done unilaterally, nor the substance of those measures; we believe that they were unfair. Moreover, our own model, our own self-government, was affected from the budgetary, financial and the Basque framework of labour relations. The content of this royal decree was materialized, materialized, in different budgetary laws and was surpassed by other rules; in particular, even when the People's Party arrived at the Government in Madrid, it not only maintained such measures, but intensified them. And it is worth noting the actual decree-laws 20/2011 and 20/2012, and then the corresponding general plans of the State. Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law 8/2010 was only a link in the chain and, therefore, when you – Elkarrekin Podemos – say literal, that it has been appointed by a previous spokesman: "Today the repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2010 wants the fastest and easiest solution to reverse the aforementioned cuts". Well, we have to say that we do not share that statement at all. It is neither the fastest solution, nor the simplest, nor has any legal effect. As you know, your initiative has no legal virtuality. Therefore, we understand that it doesn't make much sense. The only sense he has is to bring him here to make another speech, certainly not to improve the conditions of the Basque public service. And as for the amendment of EH Bildu, for it is true that it was more practical, but that debate we had here on November 23, 2017, and I refer to that exhibition, in which – as you also appointed, Mrs Ubera, and the advisor told her in an inquiry – we are not going to go to the mountain, and in turn had been told by a leader of your party. So, we're not going to... There is a legal and budgetary framework that is respected, one by obligation and the other by conviction – I don't know. We, of course, are in the obligation box. I do not know what you will be in: whether you are in that of conviction or in that of obligation. But fortunately, the situation in the Basque civil service has improved since 2010. It's better, of course, but it's better. And it has not improved, of course, thanks to such initiatives. It has not improved, of course, thanks to the initiatives that you have brought here so far. It has improved thanks to measures taken by this Government, to measures taken from realism, responsibility, legal certainty, adopted in the framework of collective bargaining, and always taking into account, on the one hand, the difficulties that the economic crisis has created so far, and the budgetary and legal limits, on the other, among which it highlights the basic legislation of the State, which, as we have repeatedly said, is becoming more and more extensive. And here everyone... Some say it is an excuse, but here, as Mr Montoro says, everyone ends up fulfilling, either by conviction or by obligation, and so do you. And among those improvements is the budget that we approved in this Parliament for 2018, which, by the way, you did not approve. With this, little contributed to the improvement of the working conditions of Basque public personnel. They haven't contributed! And that budget contained many positive things for Basque citizenship and, in particular, also for the public service, such as the rise in wages; contributions to Itzarri were reactivated; it allowed the call for large OPEs, in turn, to meet the challenges of the Administration; consolidation and job creation, generational relief, equality... And, moreover, so far there have been other improvements, such as those of the increase of the templates in the RPT, the retributive complementation of the IT and the recovery of the extra Christmas pay, among others. And all these measures, despite the constant interference of the State within the framework of competence established by the Statute of Gernika. In this sense, we share with Mrs Ubera that part of her presentation and, specifically, in the capacity for self-organisation and the staff regime. And the last example of this interference or intervention is the announcement of the unconstitutionality appeal against our budgets. And you say that we criticize them or that we are surprised now. Of course we question him. Because it questions our budgets, it questions an essential part of our self-government: the budgets approved by this Parliament. Guk, behintzat, gure aurrekontuak defendatuko ditugu, gure autogovernuaren funtsezko atal direen Heean. Eta hori, beast gauza batzuen artean, langile publikoen lan-baldintzak hobetzen jarraitzeko. Ez dakit zer egingo duzuen zuek. Orina art, gutxi edo ezer ez, eta, henera, argi dago ekimenaren benetako helburua ez de la funtzio publikoan lan-baldintzak hobetzea, baizik eta EAJ baldintzatzea Statuko aurrekontuen aurrean. But don't worry! If EAJ gets a deal, it'll be good for Basques, as it is now. The truth is that the initiative does not have the objective that says its literality. Obviously, it wants to mark the political agenda of the PNV and in particular in the face of the handling of the General Budgets of the State. Look at how urgent and relevant this initiative, the public service, which had had it in the drawer for a year, was to you. And now you take it out for another purpose, with which you do little favor to the public service with these kinds of initiatives. And they insist that where the PNV is going to be positioned, what the PNV is going to do with the General State Budgets for 2018. Well, look, we already told them last week and they have been told repeatedly that this is not the forum and of course not the subject of the initiative, and I also don't know what will happen; it will depend on many factors. But what I know is that we have approved budgets here, which contain improvements for Basque citizenship and, in particular, for the Basque public service and which you, by the way, as I have said, did not approve. And also, and you come to this point, the truth that creates me confusion. I do not really know what we are going to put to the vote: I do not know whether we are going to put to the vote the approval of the General Budgets of the State, or we are going to put to the vote the initiatives that you were bringing. You'll have to tell me. And if we really put to the vote – if we finally put to the vote – the initiative they were bringing, well, I am going to say to them that we will abstain in theirs and vote against EH Bildu's for the arguments put forward. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. We'll take the answers turn. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u34	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you say that this royal decree-law was nefarious. Well, I invite you to support their repeal; in that we fully agree. What I do not share with you is that I say that the derogation is not effective. Note, in the second additional provision, it said: "It is agreed, with effect from 1 June 2010 – I say of this royal decree – the suspension of the government agreement-unions for the public service in the framework of the social dialogue 2010-2012, signed on September 25, 2009." I mean, if we put this out of effect, that agreement would come into force again. You said that the current government signed another agreement in 2018. Well, I tell you that as long as these royal decree-laws exist, the word of Montoro is worthless and the word of the Government of Spain is worthless. Because, if they are not approved in the 2018 State General Budgets, that agreement is a wet paper. And, like that deal, everyone. Because as long as it is legislated through real decree-laws that condition all administrations, that's what we'll have. Mrs. Ubera, you said... Well, I'd like to ask you: Where do we get the restrictions? They come from Spain. They come from General Spanish Preservatives. And you and I have denounced the same thing: Of course, the reductions are bad here, and the silence of fun. We both sued him. But your proposal is different from ours. You're the ones who proposed that you exceed the law, and we don't. We must abolish the law, because the laws must always be fulfilled, and if they are not our favorites, we must destroy them, and not overcome them. That's our difference, and that's why we don't agree with the initiative or the amendment you're proposing. Mrs. Castelo said Patxi López's cabinet, well, it was short. There is a 2015 Constitutional Court ruling that made it clear that Patxi López's cabinet had imposed cuts on employees of public enterprises and that that was not correct. But in any case, you have given the key, because you have told Mr Ruiz de Arbulo: let us, let us, as representative of the government that governs in Spain, let us have an OPE, let us have better pay conditions; if so, if the reality is that, today, through the real decree-laws – and this was the first of them – it has limited the ability of all administrations to have their own conditions for their own workers. And it has been limited because, although the exclusive competence of the State exists, it has been 20 years unfulfilled. Funny, it only activated when it was interested, and now you don't want to give up that. Mrs. Larrauri said that this royal decree-law was just a link in the chain. It is not true; this is possibly the royal decree-law that maintains its perennial effects, and that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has confirmed. The 5% cut is maintained today; the purchasing capacity cannot be recovered, because that cut is maintained. And of course, repealing it does have legal virtuality and it also has political virtuality as well, and it has the virtuality to defend our capacity for self-government here, compared to what is imposed on us by the state in terms of cuts. And that's what you haven't done. Of course we would like to condition the PNV agenda, but we have no capacity; only you can change it. And on the agenda of the PNV has never been to end the cuts, because if you had not gone to the negotiations of the General Budgets of the State saying "we will not approve, we will not support, these General Budgets of the State, as long as you maintain these kind of royal decree-laws." They've never done it. Your agenda has been a different one; you will know which one. You say, "We don't know what's going to happen to the State General Budgets." Ortuzar said textually yesterday: "We have a week, and we will do everything in our hand to ensure stability." It's an understatement. Stability is to maintain the cuts, to maintain the unfair conditions to which Basque workers are subjected. Of course you know what's going to happen. What is going to happen is that, once again, when they have to decide what to support or not to support, they will go in favour of supporting budgets that always involve cuts and will leave aside, once again, Basque workers and their working conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u36	Madam Larauri, for all your arguments you have given, you ought to do for our proposal. Defending the negotiation is going to the mountains? The ones we've made and the ones we're doing. The proposals we are making for our labourer, and also for those who work in public, are highly realists in our frame, standing in our law, defending the frame of our relationships, defending our collective negotiation, and defending it. If the budgets get improvements, apply it to the upload of 1.5%. Why don't you just apply? We are not going to escape our responsibility, and we are ready to get wet, and we have shown it to you, and we are showing it to you. What's your responsibility? To propose proposals in the frame imposed by Madrid? Just that? I don't know if you realize it. To find the agreements, the agreements... to seek is very well, but there is always respect between the determination of both sides and the faculty of determination, but this is not at present the case. What's going on is our powers, our autogony, our state of Guernica, our institutions decaying and decaying... They're working on it. And about that there's a moment of reflection, a prevision... to do it. Where are we going? In this way we cannot answer our reality, our society. What kind of workwords do they apply? Spanish. And our society is different. Erosmen capacity: Look what's going on with soledats, what's going on with work quality... Then it seems to me that there is a time to go round all this, because the daily food, the whole of us, is at stake, and that's what we're talking about today. Mr. Becerra, what we've decided to do today is to sit next to our employees as usual, so we'll go for our proposition, because it's too much at stake, and we're not going anywhere with sterile expressions. And it seems to us that we must move from our hands and care. We can't wait for what will happen there, but we have a general table. The General's allowed to do so, shouldn't we name it? Then let's move, we're members of the legislature, and let's move the government. It was a pity, because here we could easily ask Madrid to ask for it, ask Europe, ask ONU, but what do we do? What about us? And it's a pity that you don't make a middle-way and don't get an agreement, besides asking Madrid to do something here and make him move. Because if it doesn't, people, workers... they lose. Because I don't think we need to keep asking Madrid for things. That's not the function of this legislature, that's why Congress is in Congress. It's Congress. What else? So I'd like to say yes. In the little garden, not Mr. Erkoka, in March, if you intend to regroup the General Round Table for the last time, it seems to me that, in defence of the frame of our relationships, we have a responsibility and I don't think we can wait any longer? And we should take a walk... We should give him a tour of the really narrowings to get back, and really give him the right answers to the situation of our society today. What else? Mr. Ruiz de Abulo mentions that we want to overcome the law. No, no, it's our law that we're defending here, our law of the EAE, that we're just asking for protection. General Table, frame of our worksheet... Is that cancelling the law? I don't think so. I know you're not on the side of it, and you place the frame somewhere else, as you've shown in the diary. But you're gonna do it against the approved budgets? Will you stand against upload %1, 5? Are you going to fight the penalty for the beans? I have no doubt that you have no trouble with that, and at any time, skipping the law, skipping your legislation, you will draw for the sake of man some other legal frame or other regulation. But we will continue to make different proposals as we have done now, in defence of our workers and our fellow citizens, so that we will place ourselves next to our workers at Esscal, and we will vote for our repentance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I thought we had come up here to talk about Royal Decree-Law 8/2010, but I see that, from behind, there are other debates for which I was not prepared. I do not know who wants to highlight whether or not to vote on the State's General Budgets, or what internal political struggles lie behind. Or if you have to skip the rules or you don't have to skip the rules. Mrs. Ubera, you tell me that I accuse you of pretending to break the law. And, indeed, the second point of your amendment is that this cut is suspended and that the money is returned. Look, to do that, you need a legal framework that does not exist at this time. Doing so without a legal framework – and you don't talk about any kind of bill, any legal reform, here or anywhere else, in order to do that – would be illegal, and I don't think that Mr Erkoreka – here present – is for the work of having to end up in the courts, giving explanations for jumping the rules on matters so clear, so basic and that no one has appealed from 2010 until today, because no one doubts that this is the basic law of the State. And if not, I am sure that those who disagreed would have gone to court, whether it be the governments concerned, all the governments in the country, or all the hundreds of billions of officials who were affected, to claim their own. No one went! And I am sure that judges and courts, if the measure had been illegal, affected also by that 5% cut, would have given reason to those who demanded the return of their money. It's a law that's passed; it's a bad decision, it's a useless decision, because decisions can be bad and painful, but it was completely useless, because it didn't solve any problems, because it came too late, after years of cowardice and lies, to say that nothing happened, to say that there was no crisis, to say that things were absolutely good and phenomenal, when they hid reality from all citizens. This cake had to be made; you left the government, and many more adjustments had to be made, of course. Who said no? No one here has denied the existence of such subsequent adjustments, subsequent adjustments that were reversible. Because, when the extra pay was withdrawn from all public workers, the same royal decree-law explained under what conditions it could be returned and when it could be returned, and it has been returned, because they were adjustments that were requested temporarily. Not these, they came to stay, because they were made to stay, because they were the fruit of the disgovernment that we had in the country at that time. And I insist: I am going to vote against; I am not going to abstain because I do not know what I am voting for, Mrs Larrauri, if the Madrid budgets, if the derogation, which serves nothing. Look, the repeal – and I also say this to Mr Becerra – does not serve anything legally; it is a political debate, but it serves absolutely nothing, and it would have no effect, any effect, on the wage perceptions of public workers; therefore, we are not in favour of calling for a derogation that is absurd. But I've already explained the way. I do not come to tell you that yours is useless; I simply come to tell you that there are already solutions that are on the table, that there is already an agreement between the Ministry of Public Administration and the representatives of all the public officials of the State, which is in progress. Of course, you tell me that you do not believe in the word of the Spanish Government and that this is a wet paper and that, until there are budgets, it cannot be put into effect. Of course! Any wage increase in public workers must be reflected in the budgets; if there are no budgets, it cannot be put into effect. But it is that all the economic decisions of the country will be paralyzed and all the agreements will remain in the air, if there are no budgets. Now, if you believe that the real interest of the citizens is that there are no General State Budgets, then continue with your position, that they do not exist and we will not be able to implement that agreement. That it's probably better? That there will be people who will want more; but, listen, after the pies that have been taken away by the public workers in recent years, to recover almost 9%, with this wage increase, from their purchasing power, I think it is not a bad step to start with. Now that we can and now we can; because, thanks to certain measures and certain adjustments that were taken at the time, the economy grows; it generates employment; there is economic activity – therefore, there are taxes –; the State collects money, and this kind of public policy can be put in place, with the instruments that are really necessary and those that the law establishes for us, that are the General Budgets of the State. Now – if I may, Madam President – if there are no budgets, I would bet that there will be an increase for this year in the salaries of public workers. This may lead to a three-year hang-up of 8.8%; because, without budgets, we will not continue to reactivate the economy, which, at the end of the day and at the end of the day, is what this type of public policy allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u40	Mr. Becerra. As far as you are concerned, the judgment of the High Court of Justice you are referring to me, or that of the Constitutional Court – I don't know which of the two you have told me – did not affect the undertakings of the Basque public sector; it only affected those undertakings which had the status of an anonymous company dependent on the public body of EITB, and if you don't ask the workers of the public body and the workers of the undertakings, and then you will clarify that question. He says that they do not condition the state's agenda, because they do not want it, because they do not want it, because you had a golden opportunity not to invest President Mariano Rajoy and to invest President Pedro Sánchez, and today we were also not in this circumstance. So, condition or not condition, because you put forward other intentions and the truth is that we are worried about all public servants, not just those here. Those here, those of Cádiz, those of Madrid, those of Coruña, the whole public service, and we believe that the path or the path on which we have to be is in that of negotiating with the unions in order to fix a scenario of recovery of working conditions, which, by the way, is what your group has proposed in Congress, in March 2018. They have not gone to a repeal of the Royal Decree-Law; they have gone to a series of measures for the recovery of working conditions, and they talk about more practical or simpler things, well it is true that as a non-law proposal – they have not gone to a law proposal, truth – and they talk about replacement rates, they talk about extraordinary OPEs, they talk about opening up the possibility of negotiating the day in all public administrations, they talk about retirement supplements... That's what they're talking about, where? Where they have to talk about it, which is in the Congress of Deputies and not in this rostrum, that's why we told him that the debate was also linked to other issues, right? And when EH Bildu, Mrs Rebeka Ubera, comments on which agreement has to be applied. Well, the collective agreement here, that of Bizkaia, that of Gipuzkoa, that of Álava or that of the Basque Country, has to be applied, and for that it is necessary that these agreements be signed and that we give content to that structural agreement, that in January 2017 our own framework, our own instruments... They have allowed us to equip and now we are going to defend the attack that is being carried out through the courts. That is where we also have to focus on our own, because the rest of us, to say that we dissolve the Basque Parliament on a tremendous issue that you do... Man, I take it in ironic plan – that's what you tell me, isn't it?– As you have to come here to sell your book, whatever issue we take out, man, I'm going to take it with that that dissolution of Parliament has been said by you in a certainly playful tone. And when you tell me (Mr Ruiz de Arbulo) that the decision was useless, it came late. Joe, you're late! I don't know if I'd be late, what it was was... There is a saying that says "others will come what good they will do to you"; well, that's exactly what happened to us, because what you did afterwards was slimming down the public administration without any redness, no matter if it affected health, if it affected education, if it affected dependence; they cared about a cumin. And I tell you that you cared about a cumin, because you have applied adjustments that are supposedly reversible, but do not reverse them. Look, put it on the list so you can move it to your colleagues in Congress: Unemployment benefits fell from 60% to 50% to encourage the unemployed, who go to unemployment because they want to, to be more proactive in seeking employment. And you continue to do so, even though you now say that you create jobs; well, even though you do, you continue to reduce the unemployment benefit. The Fogasa pays less when a worker sees himself on the street and his company declares itself insolvent. It's reversible; they can do it. You do not pay the pension CPI; the situation allows it. You can do it. The pharmaceutical copago, were other times, that have changed; you can reverse it. The elimination of the validity of the agreements, that labour reform that has allowed companies to fail to respect or not to give effect to those collective agreements that regulated the conditions of workers, conditions of dignity; that is reversible. Therefore, do not come to me here to talk to me about absolutely vague issues; they do not care about quality, they do not care about officials, they do not care about society. But now there is one thing that is also clear: surely you too will put on your feet on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u42	, ladies: Congresswoman, once again, thank you. With regard to his amendment, what I have said is that we had exactly the same debate, with the same text, almost identical, on 23 November 2017 and that it referred to what we said at that time and, on the other hand, it says, "we will act responsibly, apply the 1.5"; we will act responsibly. So far, his responsibility has been limited to telling the Government to do so. And the diary, the food, the diary and the food, is in our budgets, and you didn't accept them. In any case, Mr. Becerra, the proposition... I repeat that the initial proposal has been totally distorted. You have not come here to talk about employees and public employees; you are not interested at all in improving the working conditions of the Basque public service. They have only come to try to mark the agenda or exercise the political action of the Basque Nationalist Party. And we repeat to you that, on the other hand, that your repeal of this royal decree-law does not make any sense; because, of course, it has already been said that it has been totally overtaken. But it has not been overtaken by the initiatives you are presenting; it has been improved by improvements and decisions and, in the framework of collective bargaining, by the rules adopted by Mr Urkullu's government. And you say, the appeal announcement. Again the appeal announcement, that an attack... But me, it's just... of course we're surprised. We certainly question it, but I don't know why you're worried. I do not know why you are concerned about the appeal or the announcement of the appeal to these resources, if you did not approve those budgets. Now they're worried? Now they call them valid? Now they have realized that they were good for Basque citizenship and that is why they are afraid of this resource? Now they realize they were good for the Basque public service? They're a little late. In any case, they incur many inconsistencies, and I think they should be clarified. And, on the other hand, they bring in initiatives that, of course, always have other purposes. Every week they take a group hostage, as you say: hostages. The hostage is not the Basque Nationalist Party; the hostages are the collectives you are taking. Last week it was the pensioners; today it was the civil service. I don't know what group we'll be surprised with next week. Are you going to surprise us with the equalization of the salaries of the state security forces and bodies? I don't know... We're willing here to surprise you. In any case, you always do so with a partisan interest, and we understand that this is how you are discrediting our institutions. And what are you going to do? The million's question: what is the Basque Nationalist Party going to do – all they are interested in – with the State's General Budgets? For I have already told you that I do not know it, that it will depend on many factors, that it is not the object of the initiative and that, in addition, they are patient, that will be known, will be known, in a few days. In any case, you are very concerned about the Basque Nationalist Party and should focus more on you, on you. There are 350 deputies in the Congress of Deputies. They're not looking all the time at what the Basque Nationalist Party is doing. And in any case, what I know is that if the Basque Nationalist Party adopts any agreement with the Government of Spain or any other institution, it will be because it is good and positive for Euskadi, as it has been so far. And to the People's Party, he proposes that the only solution, the only way... for the improvement is the approval of the General Budgets of the State. I have the way; an agreement was adopted on 9 March: budgets, via Madrid. Of course, Mr Montoro so far, for the moment, has the absolute monopoly in public service negotiations. And budgets, if budgets are the way, because I don't really know what you want other budgets for. I don't know if you can stop... Your party has approved some budgets here and has made a notice of appeal. I don't know why they want other budgets. To resort to them again? So as not to fulfil the commitments contained in it? The truth is, I don't know why we need other budgets. In any case, the future is to be written, as the lehendakari said the other day. And you, gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, ask the question too, the other question of the million: with whom is the PNV? So who's he gonna be with? With the same and the same always: with Basque citizenship, with public and private workers, with pensioners, with students... With the same old ones. With the same and the same as always, with the ones we were with before you were and with whom we will be if you are not one day. Don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites are 25; the whites are 0; Abstations, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u44	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full-correction of the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 17. The contrary, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u45	So it's not accepted. Third point in theme list: "As the Parlamentarian Parlamentary Team made, the report on the torrhages between 1960 and 2014. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u46	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. The equidistance, the infinite tie, the equalization of victims and sufferings, the theory of conflict, the construction of the narrative... This is behind many of the actions of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence under the Basque Government. In this attempt to point out violence on the "two sides" – and this I shatter, let it be clear – ETA is ultimately justified and the rule of law is put in check. But nothing seems to matter. The instruments of the rule of law, the security forces and bodies, do not seem to matter. It does not seem to matter to take forward the prestige of the Ertzaintza, the work of the Ertzaintza, the commitment of the Ertzaintza and the rest of the security forces and bodies in defense of rights and freedoms. It does not seem important to sacrifice a path of defence and fight against terrorism. Nothing seems to matter when it comes to contenting a certain political spectrum, which by the way has not yet condemned terrorism. And all this without the political leaders of the Ertzaintza moving a finger in their defense. This comes from behind. The Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence begins in this despicable work of Ertzaintza, when it prepares its Peace and Co-existence Plan and devotes a specific chapter to the need to renew and strengthen the commitment to democratic rights that Ertzaintza must have. This chapter in this plan involves a questioning of the professionalism and commitment of Ertzaintza to human rights, a lack of sensitivity in attacking the dignity and prestige of our police, in questioning a commitment that Ertzaintza has always had. The agents themselves felt it as an attempt to give lessons in ethics or morals when they have never missed them. Continuing this work of contempt, of incomprehensible equivalences, is included Iñigo Cabacas, who died in 2012 as a result of a ball, in the so-called Municipal Portraits We have always said that what happened to Iñigo Cabacas should never have happened, that it should be investigated, as is being done in court. We have always said that when such an investigation and judicial action were concluded, the responsibilities that might arise should be cleared up. We have always shared the suffering of the family. We have always considered being sensitive to the suffering of the same. But, of course, it is not acceptable in our view, from any point of view, to compare Ertzaintza with a terrorist gang. It is not possible that it is the political leaders themselves, those who have to defend the Ertzaintza, those who, far from being blunt and clearly positioning themselves in defense of it, will criminalise the entire institution. We talked about sensitivity. Well, we must also say that this sensitivity has been lacking in the Basque Government, when concentrations in favour of terrorists have been allowed in the same place where an agent has been killed, as happened at the feet of the Guggenheim. As was also missing from the Security Council, he failed to pay tribute to Txema Aguirre in the same place. And the last affront comes from the hand of the torture report between 1960 and 2014 of the Basque Institute of Criminology of the UPV. The report contains 4,113 alleged cases of torture and ill-treatment, of which Ertzaintza is responsible for 336. In the report, extrajudicial sentences were being drawn up in cases of torture and ill-treatment. We can probably agree that there should be more convictions or there should be more convictions of judicial decisions for torture; but, of course, what cannot be done is to replace investigations and judicial sentences with a request from the Secretary of Peace and Co-existence. It should be noted, as the report states, that there have been only 20 cases of convictions for torture, and none of them condemn the Ertzaintza. I'll show you a photo (Argazki bat erakutsi du), I'll show you another... It doesn't look very good, because it corresponds to a video that was recorded while some energums – by calling them softly – beat up an inertzaine, Ander Susaeta, at Bilbao's parties, simply because they are inertzaine. And I ask you, isn't this torture? Ladies and gentlemen, the people who tortured in this country were not the ertzainas. Whoever tortured in this country was ETA; it was the "gasoline boys", as some called them. And we want to make one thing clear: torture is not admissible under any pretext, ever. In the People's Group, we condemn and reject any practice of torture or ill-treatment. We want to make it clear that, with torture or ill-treatment or any violation of human rights, zero tolerance. Torture must be reported in court; it must be investigated, and the full weight of the law must fall on those who engage in torture or ill-treatment, because in democracy, only the rule of law, the application of the law, is valid. And when human rights violations are committed, they must be prosecuted and punished, and even more so, if they are public authorities. But in the same way that we make this very clear, that we condemn unequivocally, in a clear and consistent manner, those who have violated torture, in the same clear and consistent way that all groups in this House condemn torture, which we all reject, demand their complaint, clarification and clearance of responsibilities, in the same clear and consistent way, I would like to ask you a number of questions: Do we all, in this House, condemn ETA in the same clear, robust and non-palliative manner? Do we all condemn the "gasoline boys"? Do we all condemn, in the same clear and blunt way, the beating that was given to Ander Susaeta, just because it was ertzaina? Do we all clearly and decisively condemn the attempt to burn some agents alive, for committing the crime of defending the rights and freedoms of all Basques, of all of us? Do we all, in this House, condemn, reject, demand that ETA's crimes be brought before the courts? Do we all in this House condemn the torture regime to which ETA has subjected our society for years? The ertzainas have been killed, they have lived harassed, they have had to look under their vehicles, change their routes, hide their profession... Many have not been able to live in their villages. Isn't that torture? Don't you think it's the ertzainas who've been tortured for over 30 years? And after all this, after all this torture they have been subjected to, they have to see how a report is presented in this House accusing them of torture and ill-treatment on 336 occasions. Because that's what's been done. Let's not forget. That is what the Basque Government has done: what the Basque Government has done is to bring to this House a report which casts a huge suspicion on the action of the Ertzaintza. A report that calls into question the professionalism and honourability of its agents and officials. A report containing on the ground the commitment and dedication that our autonomous police have always had to defend the freedoms and rights of citizens. All this has to do with the burden, the trample, the report which this Government has forwarded to this Parliament. And one has to ask: how is it possible for the government on which our police are based to bring to this Parliament a report stating that this same police is involved in more than 300 cases of torture and ill-treatment? It also ensures that these practices were not isolated but systematic. What answer should this Parliament give to that government? Shouldn't we start looking for responsibilities? Are you going to ask for a commission of inquiry into these events? If there are 300 alleged cases of torture committed by our police, are they not going to ask for responsibilities from previous advisers? They are not here, but I was going to ask Mr Lehendakari and Mr Erkoreka: are you not going to take any action on them? They were the most responsible; under his direction these events allegedly occurred. What's the matter, that the crap goes to the agents and the political leaders of the Ertzaintza stay on the sidelines? Are they going to the sidelines, are they going in parallel? Ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that Ertzaintza's commitment to the democratic freedoms and rights of all people is beyond doubt. Its history of combating terrorism at very difficult and complicated times we have all known it, because we have lived it and felt it in the first person; it is an impeccable trajectory. The Ertzaintza planted before ETA, who tortured, extortioned, and killed in this land. Don't try to tarnish that trajectory, for the sake of an irresponsible political strategy. Do not seek to share responsibilities on the blackest page lived in this country. Don't look for arguments to please those who were always on the side of crime and murder, who haven't stopped or yet stopped blessing ETA at any time. As I told you at first, you are sending this Parliament a report that is immersed in the game of equidistance, in trying to equate violence on one side and on the other, in trying to distort the true truth of what we have lived in this country: ETA was a terrorist organization that killed, kidnapped, extortioned. Be able to defend this reality without the need to seek equivalence or other culprits. The report seeks to put on the same footing allegations of torture with murders, systematic harassment of autonomous police officers by the gang and ETA attacks. This Government, we do not understand how it can endorse a report that points to Ertzaintza and that responsibility for torture, because with it this Government is doubting its trajectory, the trajectory of the democratic institutions themselves, the trajectory of an institution of its own like Ertzaintza. Do you really believe that Ertzaintza tortured? Do they really endorse the content of this report? Can you support from these government seats what this report says about Ertzaintza? Their responsibility, especially that of the Security Council, should lead them to denounce, reject the report and defend the work of the inertzainas, their honour and their professionalism, to put in value that they were able to give, for very complicated years, everything to defend the democratic values of this country, even some of their own lives. It is important that they do so, it is important that we do so, because by doing so we will be defending the honour of those who have the responsibility of the government that these banks occupy today. That is what we call for in this initiative, to support and demand the work of the Ertzaintza and the rest of the State's security forces and bodies in defence of the rights and freedoms of all Basques. That the Basque Government – and especially the Department of Security – defends the honour of the Ertzaintza, in the face of attacks on its dignity. And we also ask that this report be withdrawn, because the ertzainas feel attacked and helpless. Because, in this desire to justify the theory of conflict, to content those who still today justify and protect terrorism, question the professionalism of Ertzaintza, stain their work and their trajectory. And the ertzainas, who for so many years played the guy for defending the freedom and democracy of the Basques, don't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u47	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, is your word. Oh, Mr. Pastor, I'm sorry, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u48	The Socialist Group wishes today, once again, to express its appreciation for the work carried out by the State security forces and bodies – and specifically the Ertzaintza – in order to contribute decisively to ending terrorism and defending democratic freedoms. And we will also demand that the collection of complaints made in the report on torture be incorporated as a further report of the presentation, and that they be dealt with, where appropriate, by the mechanisms that this Parliament itself has empowered for the recognition and reparation of cases that are so determined; we have seen this in Mr Etxeberria's appearance in the Commission on Human Rights. Because it is justice for the victims, but it is also justice for the vast majority of officials who respected the rule of law to regain freedom for all. That is why we think that the way in which the People's Party brings this proposal to us is a mistake; because, surely, with the contrary intention, it actually proposes the whole or nothing: it proposes linking recognition to police work to the unnecessary need to repair those who have seen their rights violated by the illicit use of violence by some agents. And today we reiterate our unequivocal commitment to the recognition and reparation of each and every person who has been victims of violations of their rights, whether by terrorism or by police abuses of any kind. A commitment that we materialized from a socialist government makes two legislatures, with the first rule that existed in Spain for this task, and that has already served to recognize and repair 187 people who suffered different forms of police abuse or excesses, including torture. A compromise in which we then continue, from the opposition, so that the law can move forward, which is now partially suspended, and which refers to the democratic period. The decree and the law provide the basis for determining who can benefit from this right to recognition and reparation for any form of violation of rights, for police abuse or abuse or for authority, including for lack of institutional protection. And the compilation report to which the initiative refers contains cases already repaired by the courts, others that could still be claimed by the courts today, since they have not prescribed, and others that have a channel for their analysis in the Evaluation Commission envisaged for this purpose. That's what we think is the way. What can under no circumstances happen is that this documentary work that collects the complaints can be interpreted as a kind of revealed truth, that it is believed that each of the complaints corresponds to an abuse, and that there is a consensus that torture has been widespread and systematic and that its victims are even more than those caused by half a century of terrorism. Socialists admit that there have been torture – it is true – and ill-treatment and police abuse, and that is why we have made the rules that allow for their recognition and reparation; but we do not admit that these rules want to become substitutes for the judiciary. They are measures of recognition and reparation for proven and contrasted procedures, which are fixed on the victims, not on the victims, without any possible interpretation. It is to them who must be addressed, to those who suffered unjustly from abuse of power, police excesses or defencelessness in the face of their complaints; to those who suffered from the actions of public servants who failed to fulfil their obligations and deprived them of dignity and rights. But we also do not allow partial and tortuous use to be made of this issue. The officials who committed these violations were, fortunately, a minority. And we also want to address that vast majority of ertzainas, civil guards, national police and judges who in democracy have been respectful of the rule of law, because the work of that vast majority of public servants was essential to end half a century of human rights violations by ETA, also with the bands that used ETA as an excuse for their crimes. Because also those officials, democrats and fulcrums, expect us not to be stigmatized by the actions of others. We share the concern that has been expressed in the Ertzaintza with this report, as is the case in other security forces and bodies; a concern, because more than 4,000 complaints are reflected, more than 300 corresponding to the Basque police as irrefutable cases, without a sentence. Indeed, there are no convictions in the Ertzaintza, nor in the vast majority of cases referring to other bodies, and, indeed, the absence of a sentence does not mean, much less, that there has been no torture, ill-treatment or other police excesses; neither does it. For this reason, both the decree, which has already recognized 187 victims, and the law, which is partially suspended, establishes a precise and assessed procedure, which, without replacing the justice system – and it is necessary to describe it – can specify, by means of procedures normally admitted in law, the concreteness of the alleged violation. Of course, what we cannot admit is that this public and patchy interpretation nullifies the unpayable work – and indeed it is assessed and accredited – so that, among other things, they do not kill them, nor kill us, and this is something that, in addition to referring to the Evaluation Commission, the report must be incorporated into the work of the memorandum of memory and coexistence, in order to add to the open reflections on the aftermath of ETA terrorism or the violations perpetrated with ETA's excuse. To add to those relating to the 300 unclarified murders, to the reparation of thousands of victims of persecution, to the unmeasured damage to children who suffered that threat, to the search for murderers whose remains have not just been told where the perpetrators of the crimes are, or to the way in which we get the convicted, when they serve their sentences, to recognize the damage caused, because that is where we are. That is why we reiterate to the PP, once again, our invitation to join this paper, because we are seeking full and total delegitimization of terrorism, and the strengthening of the rule of law. And that is why we will also ask the proposers to vote separately on the points set out in their initiative. I want to remind who was the first lehendakari after the recovery of democracy, when Ramon Rubial explained his 20 years in prison, he said: "All that I have seen and suffered would never, ever have to happen. I do not want anyone to suffer such torture, not even torturers; neither do they, no one. If this serves as an example, go ahead." The Socialist Party has been in everything that has allowed us to move forward in that longing, in every step taken, in which it begins to offer answers to the forgotten victims, without forgetting those who are still waiting so long for us. And that is why we see an opportunity to continue to say that the rule of law, which we have given so much in the past, which some have wanted to take away, that which has been gaining space, that which must guarantee the integrity of every human being, that which must repair every violation of rights, is made stronger and safer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Podemos, madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman, good days. Hoy, una vez más, siento decirlo, tenemos un debae inadecudo sobre un obstinacy de paz y convivencia. It's not the right place. Why isn't the place appropriate? Because memory and cooperation are the proper place to discuss this matter. I know we seem heavy, but we have told you again and again, in public and in private: come to the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence. But they do not come and, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we will again insist one and a thousand times: the place and the time to discuss all this is another. Take part in the lecture. Take part, because your voice is necessary, it is necessary to build a story shared with all Basque society, a story that by sharing in no way renounces to be truthful. And we say this once and a thousand times, even though we are far, far away, far away from this tone, that way and those intentions, when they bring these issues to the plenary. I'll tell you, I'm afraid I know a little about torture, and I'll tell you it's not even proper to bring this thing here. Why? Because it's not the time. Why? Because we discussed the Human Rights Committee a month ago. Why? Because we all had a chance about this report (shows a CD) But, of course, as we said, it's not the time. The moment was at the committee, our doubts, our objections, our admissions, and above all our chances, to get ahead of this matter. Inadequate also for what it denotes, a vision, in our view, instrumental of human rights. When you say in your proposal that this is an affront to Ertzaintza, that this report harms the security forces, what you are basically saying is that talking about human rights is inadequate. I'm upset, I'm sure. But talking about human rights is always annoying, because we have never agreed in this House, but never inappropriate; never inappropriate. It should be recalled that this report is based on a wealth of information, generated over time and a number of official reports in recent years. Among them, would highlight the 2008 of Don Jon-Mirena Landa, Documentation of torture in incommunicado detainees in the Basque Country from 2000 to 2008: Scientific approach Report-base of human rights violations in the Basque case (1960-2013), Report of the Evaluation Commission on victims of human rights violations and other unjust sufferings produced in a context of politically motivated violence Every report, everyone I have mentioned, is always improveable, and so it has been expressed by those who have signed it, but what is unfair is that someone questions it without making a simple scientific argument. They could have explained what they don't like about the report. Have you studied it? I can leave you this CD with all the information, see where you find cracks so you don't value this report. But they have not suggested what to change, what to include, or what to add. And what is lacking credibility to your claims is that all the arguments that you have here disaggregated, part is true, but another large part is not sustained. It is not sustained, because they know that carrying out scientific research to draft official reports disassembles all their arguments. This report opens a taboo, which, as Elizabeth Lira, researcher of the Valech Commission of Chile, said, is similar to incest in the family. According to the Report of Human Rights Violations in the Basque Case, 1960-2013 (Orri bat erakutsi du) In the case of the Basque report, of the Paco Etxeberria team, we are told about 4,130, of which 202 have gone to the Istanbul Protocol. We do not see that this report compares torture and murders of ETA. And if you put it somewhere, tell us. Mr Etxeberria was very clear in this regard, at the hearing, and said that it is not a good thing to make comparisons with other human rights violations. There is no need to minimize; there is no ethical neutrality, because in the face of a human rights violation one can never be neutral. And here I would suggest to everyone in this House – it is a shame that there are so many absences – that each one be looked at, explored, to see why some human rights violations consider them denouncing, reprehensible and worthy of trial, and others not even to be investigated. We believe that they are confused when they believe that putting mechanisms and guarantees to prevent torture weakens the police; on the contrary, it strengthens it, further dignifies it. And you continue, unfortunately, without wanting to see it. Because a single case of torture would already justify taking all the necessary measures to ensure that it did not happen again. But even more so, what has long been behind every debate on issues of peace and coexistence is nothing other than the dispute over the narrative. And I believe that it is relevant and necessary and desirable to make two things clear: to recognize and repair the victims of torture does not leave an apex of gravity to ETA terrorism, and to recognize torture does not compensate, justify or contextualize ETA violence. In the 2018 Euskadi there are still those who believe that this memory consists of making a sum of victims on one side and on the other to see if this balances some atrocities with others, and nothing further than what must be and is being. Today Basque society sees on one side human rights in the face of violence, and does not want them to be balanced; it wants the value of human rights to far exceed the weight of the scourge of violence, because there is no good, better, worse, just or acceptable violence. Violence, all violence, was always unjust, always cruel and always unjustifiable. The story I want us to share must be the story that, from my humble opinion, the other day a member of his party, Iñaki Oyarzabal, defended in the Senate. Iñaki Oyarzabal defended the recognition, reparation and justice of the victims of terrorism and human rights violations, committing himself to the construction of a memory that delegitimate the justification, endorsement or exaltation of all I repeat, of all forms of terrorism, of all violence or of any violation of human rights. That's the Basque People's Party I'd like to see. I hope it is the beginning of something positive; in the meantime, I will insist and say again to you and to all the members of your party: come to the paper, we need you. And as John Paul Lederach, a prestigious expert in conflict resolution to whom we have invited to the Presentation of Memory and Co-existence, says, we must approach the people to whom we fear, not just friendships; for, by approaching those we fear, we can come to try to hear what we do not like to hear. And what you have told us clearly shows why they don't like that report and it hurts them, but it is that sometimes, unfortunately, the truths hurt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u52	Thank you, ma'am, and good noon to all. Denialism: "A phenomenon that occurs when a segment of society, often struggling with the trauma of change, turns its back on reality in favor of a lie that is more comfortable for it" (Michael Specter). His relato I'd like to thank the Popular Party for bringing this initiative, because it gives more importance and makes more publicity to the report that the New Paco has been directed by the New House, and still more because it reveals the incogruity of this PP's report, because it refused at first. Then Juana Bengochea hugueur did not come for her, accepting the masterpiece of the New House Paco, and now reappears again. I want to take advantage of this opportunity PPP offers me to value this report and stress it. I suppose this report is necessary: The difficult work is technically and politically, and that is why I want to show and thank you for the ability of the authors. The event of the torture was known, and now officially the institutions admit and protect the existence of this phenomenon. I want to mark this report for the reconnaissance and observation which this report supposes so many tortures, for many long years, for many decades... no reconnaissance and attention. There are few who have attained a judicial reconnaissance as appears in the report. 65 Civil Guard and National Police were punished for the torture treaty. P.P. says he expected more punishments, and I ask why, afterwards, those torturers, who were afterwards seized, were brought up. Some few, as I say, have received the judicial reconnaissance, but the only confession of the greatest number of tortures now is this report. So I insist on the importance of the report, and also the potentiality of this report in the future to have development. The work which the victims and social institutions did, what they said, is now received by public institutions, and it gives them official duties. And that's happiness. There's some consequences that can come out of this job, and I'd like to share them with you. This work proves that the dimensions of torture, the universe of torture, the stoism of torture, and of a quantum point of view, is the Omnipotentovation of the data it provides, and also because of the quantum, because it requires a system to exist, because it requires a structure to exist, a state structure to make it possible for torture, because you have to establish a mechanism to secure the immunity. And all this is called incommunication, national hearing, Spanish Judges. Another conclusion we could draw is that this work has not been completed; it is not closed. It is necessary to continue this work of seeking testimony of torture. At the close of the report, Paco Etxeberria confessed to us that there were 454 dossiers pending analysis. He was telling us that surely, after his appearance at the Commission on Human Rights, there would be more people who would be encouraged to report. I add that, thanks perhaps today to the initiative of the People's Party, tomorrow will be more people who are encouraged, who have the will, who have the need, to denounce what they have suffered and continue to feed the content of this work. It would be necessary to analyse the impact that statements extracted under torture have had on the imposition of punishments at the National Court, because this report answers one question: what was torture? But I think it is necessary to answer another question which is: what was torture for?, what was torture for? And I believe that the United Nations also gives us a clue as to where to respond, by setting out three goals that would have torment, cruel, inhuman, degrading treatment or torture: first objective, punishing the person; second objective: to intimidate or coerce that person or others, and third objective: to obtain from it or from a third information or a confession. And I believe that this is precisely the issue here, and this is precisely what this report points to. Information or confession – just as it is true or false – on which accusations, police operations, accusations, convictions, without any basis of truth, i.e. arbitrary. The famous tree of the poisoned fruit, by which the declaration extracted unlawfully carries an equally irregular, arbitrary or illegitimate sentence. The judicial truth, the official, that of the National Court, is contaminated by the practice of torture in the extent, in the depth... that this report presented by Paco Etxeberria and his team shows us. Another work that we have pending is to implement the recommendation on how to make reparations to these victims. Of course there are decrees, there are laws, under appeal today, which are now unused by the Spanish Government itself, but this report calls for us to find an adequate legal framework, which welcomes the rights of reparation, recognition, even compensation, of tortured persons, to whom hope is now open. Victims who have had to fight, who have been condemned to fight to be recognized and who today find protection in this report, which, as I say, still deserves development. I do not think that the results of this report can be biased, some data seem to reflect an expert, eminent work, because they may affect some police officers, but some other data are doubtful, they do not enjoy the same credibility, they lack authority, because they may affect other police officers who are supposed not to be called into question, they cannot be called into question. It makes no sense to assume some of the cases that this report receives and to deny others, when the method used is identical, when the same scientific rigor has been used, as Paco Etxeberria expressed to us, through the documentary test, the test and the expert test. It is not fair to say that the verification mechanism used, the one known as the Istanbul Protocol, serves to detect credibility in cases practiced by the Civil Guard and the National Police, but does not apply to Ertzaintza. It is effective in detecting the veracity of 3,600 cases attributable to the security forces under the Spanish mandate, but not for the 336 cases attributed to the Ertzaintza, and of course not, which point to its political leaders. Either everything is welcomed, or everything falls through the slippery slope of negationism. It cannot be deduced that, in reference to those 336 cases attributed to Ertzaintza, the prevention mechanisms were functioning. Moreover, if it is put in context that the Ertzaintza acted for less time –deployment completed in 1995 – it practiced less detentions under incommunicado, and the vast majority of these were also linked to the phenomenon of kale borroka Ararteko himself criticized in different reports, the last of them in 2013 – as if we said yesterday – that Ertzaintza did not meet the conditions that these preventive mechanisms have to possess in order to be effective. Those are Ararteko's words. This urges us to recognize that they did not work and also urges us to improve prevention systems, to put in place effective measures so that what cannot be restored, at least in the future, can be ensured that it does not happen again. As can be seen, rather than returning this report to the Government, what we urge is to highlight it and, above all, to adopt these recommendations in order to develop it. We want to put this report in value, not partially, not a part of it, but as a whole, and also as a part of it as well as a section of its edge. EH Collect will be working to implement the consequences of this report, to continue feeding this report, to continue developing it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u54	Mr. President, President, I don't... The chieftains, the members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. I'd say you didn't even look at the report. You didn't even read the report. If you had read it, you would have seen that there is one chief effect which makes a difference in the border: The Euscalian police have urged a decree of prevention, and this model is highly prized by the institutions of the human rights and by the inspection of the institutions of the country. In fact, just as it doesn't happen to other cops, the report confirms that international institutions don't do the same thing with the edge of torture. In fact, against the edge there is no judgment at all. Nay, there is no judgment on the matter of inquiry, or of the Court of the Constitution, nor of the Court of the Human Rights in Europe. In the same way, if you could have read the report, Mrs. Llanos, the international institutions have insisted once and again in the presence of the executioners in Spain, and they have shown this anxiety also about the anti-deceptive Committee and his special relators of the United Nations, the European Committee and Amnistia Internationala or Humanights Watch institutions. Read the report, Mrs Llanos; read it to her. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has on nine occasions condemned the Spanish State for not investigating allegations of torture; in no case does it affect Ertzaintza. And what have you done to that? What has the Spanish Government done about it? What has the People's Party done to that? Your generic condemnations of torture today in the abstract sound empty, Mrs. Llanos. Read the report. The United Nations, the Council of Europe, Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch directly, expressly and repeatedly call upon the Spanish Government, which presides and leads its party; in no case, either the Basque Government or the Ertzaintza. Read the report, Mrs Llanos. And I remind you that, just a few weeks ago, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Spain for ill-treatment in the face of a double complaint of torture. In no case, the Ertzaintza. And what is your reaction to that conviction? For all these reasons, including repeated convictions, the Peace and Co-existence Plan raised the need for an investigation into torture. In 2014, the Basque Government commissioned this study to the Basque Institute of Criminology of the UPV, under the scientific direction of Paco Etxeberria, which no one has so far questioned. The Basque Government had done exactly what international human rights institutions recommended. But let me reiterate that it is not the Basque Government that has been being questioned by human rights institutions for years. Let me reiterate to you the disappointment, but the shame, which causes the Spanish Government, which has been questioned and condemned, to fail to comply with these international recommendations and, not only that, to be allowed to criticize them, as you have done here today. Mrs. Llanos, you haven't read the report, and you haven't either understood or didn't understand her methodology. This investigation does not involve the case; it is an approach to the global reality of the question of tortures and bad trades, which the novel Paco had clearly established in its scene. I'll give you an example of the three exams that M. M. M. The report concerning the injustice of the people threatened by the border and their families, and the injustice which they have suffered from their threats, and the report on the influence of the revolutionary tax. These three studys have offered no case consequences, but they have made a global and credible approach to reality. They have not limited themselves to cases judged. Mrs. Llanos, does the reality of her threat exhaust itself in the judicial way? The reality of the revolutionary tax exhausts itself in the judicial way? Or are they going further? What do you think? "L realidad de las amentiandas de and se agonta en la divía judicial y en los casosos resueltos?" "La del impoesto revolcioario se agota, o va va más allá de las evindcias judciales?" Qué creedo, señora Llanos? Look, you distort and distort the report to say one thing and your opposite. First, they falsely implicate Ertzaintza, and then they get shocked by it. First they try to mess up their prestige, and then they say we have to clean it up. The prestige of the Ertzaintza is dragged by you, no matter what you take forward. And don't pretend to count on our vote for that game, Mrs. Llanos. The Ertzaintza has earned its social prestige and is one of the best-rated institutions in Euskadi, and four reasons support the majority support of Basque citizenship: First, Ertzaintza has played a decisive role in the fight against terrorism, and will continue to play it in defence of coexistence and democracy. Secondly, the Ertzaintza has paid a high price for its commitment to this struggle for the defence of peace and coexistence, and if not the report on injustice suffered by the group of ertzainas and their families as a result of the threats of ETA between 1990 and 2011, also commissioned by the Secretariat of Peace and Coexistence of the Basque Government. Thirdly, the Ertzaintza has demonstrated its willingness to transparency, auditing and also self-criticism, and this attitude, Mr Llanos, not only does it not weaken the institution of the Ertzaintza, but rather honour and magnifies it, and is a reflection of a democratic model of police highly valued by the citizenry, and that is precisely the difference between you and us, between your Government and ours. And fourthly, the Ertzaintza is a police guarantee, which in the field of human rights is at the forefront in Europe and in the world. An objective test is precisely the preventive mechanisms and protocols to avoid opaque spaces in dealing with detained persons. I insist, the Ertzaintza has earned its social prestige. I insist, do not use Ertzaintza to try to profit partisan; do not demagogy, do not distort and do not manipulate. To investigate the existence of torture, to put in place means to combat torture, to guarantee to its victims the rights to truth, justice and reparation, do not constitute a democratic affront in any way; it is an obligation and a commitment to democracy and coexistence. Otherwise, not to investigate, not to put in place means to prevent torture, not to guarantee the rights of victims, that is what disgusts decent and advanced societies. Where, Mrs Llanos, is there in this report a single match between torture and ETA terrorism? I would like you to point out a single point in the report, which gives the impression that you have not read. Read international human rights reports and recommendations. The investigation of torture and its denunciation is an exercise of democratic commitment and also a means of delegitimizing ETA terrorism with greater radicality and strength. And I end up with the reflection of the spokesman of the People's Group in the human rights commission, after knowing and reading the report, and now absent in this plenary, saying: "We have a moral duty not to forget". So the question is, what do we do with this report of which no one doubts its truthfulness, its honesty, its excellence? That is the question that we as politicians have to answer. Well, Mrs. Llanos, you answer those questions. What do we do, not with this report anymore, but with the dark and harsh reality that it has highlighted? What do we say, Mrs. Llanos, to the victims who have suffered it? Mrs. Llanos, you will agree with me that we have a moral duty not to forget and to answer. That is why I ask you to join Parliament's response: to admit the evidence, to respond to the victims who have suffered and to make a commitment that this dark and harsh reality will never happen again in Euskadi. That is why we cannot vote in favour of your initiative. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u56	Thank you again, Madam President. A couple of precisions to Mr. Iturrate, before we go into flour: First, he said that the Government of Spain had done nothing to address the complaints of international agencies. The Chairman of the UN Committee against Torture himself made it clear that there was no systematic problem of inhuman treatment or torture in Spain and, in his report, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture noted that the cooperation received by the Spanish Administration was excellent, with the delegation having rapid access to places of detention, and could meet, without witnesses, with all those who wanted to do so and all the information requested was provided. And as to whether or not we have read the report – I don't know if you have read it to him but... –, he also says that international agencies have never made any reference to Ertzaintza, I will tell you that the United Nations Committee against Torture made three convictions for not investigating and not punishing, one of them in an Ertzaintza case. I'm telling you... But well, I do not deny, Mrs Zabala, that there have been tortures and our condemnation of torture. I do not know, it seems to you that certain statements made by some political groups are heavy, and those that we make others are not. We have always condemned torture in a forceful and clear manner. Always, always... and many of the cases are still... they are open to legal action and, obviously, if in such cases it is proved judicially that this happened, because we will absolutely condemn those proceedings. And we don't have, I don't have, any pathology of negationism. I mean, we haven't denied it at any time, nor do we have any fear, let alone the truth. Those who seem to be afraid of the truth are others. There are others. Those who for a long time, and still today, do not condemn terrorism, still do not condemn because, of course, we have not heard any condemnation, nor those who were looking elsewhere on certain, too many occasions. Maybe those have some fear of the truth. This group none. No fear of the truth. And the best reasons why it is necessary to withdraw this report, which makes it clear that the Basque Government cannot endorse a report like this, have been given by Mr Arzuaga, the representative of Bildu. Mr Arzuaga's speech is the best argument for why this report is absolutely rejectable, why the Basque Government cannot stand idly by in the face of a report like this, because he has told it. And you, well, for the words you said, Mr. Iturrate, too. You affirm that these 336 cases of torture and ill-treatment of the Ertzaintza are so. Because you fully and absolutely endorsed the report, the content of that report. Then, if you endorse the contents of that report, you endorse all the testimonies reflected in that report; you are supporting, as a group that supports the Government, that Ertzaintza on 336 occasions inflicted ill-treatment, inflicted torture. That's what he's backing... and that's what his government's backing. And we have called for the withdrawal of the report, and I say this to you clearly, because it does question the trajectory of the Ertzaintza; because behind this report there is a clear political interest, the same political interest that dominates the environment of the Ponence of Peace and Coexistence and that therefore the People's Party does not go to it, does not attend to it. Because what dominates this report is the attempt to please a political group that today As I say, terrorism is still uncondemned; because these irresponsible actions are done to satisfy those who justified terrorism, those who called them "cipayos" to the ertzainas, those who justified burning them in a van or beating them. Because the Ponence of Peace and Coexistence to what it is is to a construction of the narrative, to what it is, to a construction of the narrative, and not to what should be its objective, which is the delegitimization of terrorism. This report contains very serious accusations, not only for the state security forces and bodies, Mr Iturrate, but also for the Ertzaintza. For Ertzaintza too... That theory of the fan, that maneuver of the fan, which so much likes in the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia, is that which is moved here, to the whole Parliament, with the presentation and the issue of the report. And the question to be discussed is: is the Basque Government really going to stand idly by when the Ertzaintza is being accused, on 336 occasions, of torture and ill-treatment? Really, you're not gonna do anything? Indeed, because of this attempt to content a political spectrum that has not yet, today, condemned the most serious human rights violations that have occurred in this country, which was ETA terrorism... To satisfy those, he does not mind taking forward neither the prestige nor the trajectory or the work of the Ertzaintza for a long time, and of the rest of the State's security forces and corps. That is what is done with this report, and that is what the Basque Government, with the Security Adviser at the head...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u58	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ...is what he doesn't mind doing with such contentment to some. I am not only not going to raise it, but I am repeatedly calling for this report to be withdrawn, because it calls into question the rule of law, because it calls into question the forces and security forces of the State and because it calls into question the Ertzaintza. Of course, the Basque Government should not allow that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u59	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u60	Well, this is an example of what has been wanted to avoid in the Paper of Memory: trying to get consensus in order to build a shared memory as much as possible, and not to convert this is a kind of refirrafe. But since we are, we are going to reiterate from the Socialist Group our revulsion to any human rights violations and support for the reparations of any victim who has been affected by this situation, and we do not allow ourselves to be dragged away by the PP, Mr Arzuaga, and you know it better than anyone else. But we find it unfair to attempt to give an image that stains all police officers, including the Ertzaintza, generating the feeling that they are all a kind of capes that have made their cape a syllable. And there will have been, it is true, because as I said before, it is neither true that all have been torturers, nor is it true, on the other hand, that there has been no torture in any case; neither has there been torture. I think there is a middle point and a common sense space in which we should all work; because, without denying the scientific truth and the systematization in the work of the report, what must be recognized is that what Paco Etxeberria's report does is to narrate concrete testimonies and cases. They're not court sentences. Under no circumstances can they be. That is why we say that this report is going to the Memory Paper, here it is analysed, a systematic study of each of them is launched, through the Evaluation Commission, and in many of them that have the judicial channel open, which of course uses the judicial channel of complaint, which have the judicial channel open. And I think it was possible today to do both: not to ask for the report to be returned as the People's Party does and to reject unfair generalizations, because we do continue to bet on the Paper of Memory. Just one precision, Mrs. Llanos, the central issue of the Memory Paper is not what you say (the account), it is memory. In fact, the entire final phase of the presentation has been dedicated to listening to the victims, to listening to their testimony, their experiences, their pain, their problems. And that's not building a story, because that's probably impossible, because everyone will have theirs, and it will be individual and intransferable. But yes to rescue the memory of everything that has happened in this country. That and not another, of course, is the intention of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very careful. Voy a ser muy praedente. I do not know whether with this report and with many other reports requested by the Secretariat of Peace and Coexistence, I dare not say whether torture has been systematic, sporadic, deliberate, rejected, exalted... What I am saying, forcefully and firmly, is that the obstruction in the clarification and investigation of torture has been systematic. That's what I'm saying! The nahi said, "Llanos andrea, gauza bat: zuek esaten baldin badidazue – this gustuko litzaidake sinestea – arbuiatzen dituzuela torture-kasu guztiak, éta abar, éta abar, éta abar. The nik galdetzen said no possible fordultuak exhausts. And pardons for torture affect the prevention of torture and the reparation of victims of torture. And I would like to highlight and recall that two governments of the Socialist Party and two governments of the People's Party were the ones who pardoned this whole series of people. We have it in the report, on page 327, to remember. What do you do, what do you get, when it's indulgated? Of course, they clearly indicate that the State of Spain will do nothing to accuse tortures. And those who have been condemned are not punished by the fact that they have been condemned to torture or to carry them away. And when these cases have been in the national audience, the torturers have clearly made it clear that they are protected by them. And I say that to you with experience, and with all the affection of the world, but here are different memories. Here there are different experiences and different experiences. And I would also like to highlight the work you have and the responsibility of the People's Party in this regard. The Committee against Torture, on 29 May 2015, assessed the Spanish State. The dialogue and the conclusions referred to all those recommendations that the Spanish State does not carry out... Well, do you know that no media published it? The same was said in Truth and Recognition for Victims of Torture, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment I would like to see and observe that the State security forces, both the Civil Guard and the National Police, learn from behaviour and good practices. Another will be what consequences these political leaders must have at that time when all these tortures were committed. And I would like to pay a little tribute to all those people, because this report that I have taught them is full of human lives. People who have suffered a lot, like many others in this country, who see other sufferings reflected in other reports, which no one highlights because they are realities that have existed. And that's what we value in the Presentation of Memory and Coexistence. All these realities that need to be recognized in order to be able to build a Euskadi, a Euskal Herria, in which we are all satisfied and know that the human rights of all people are guaranteed. Today for today, I doubt... just as I said that I do not dare to say whether torture is systematic, sporadic, deliberate, rejected or exalted, today for today, I have my doubts as to whether the human rights of all Basque people are respected, respected and guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u64	Well, it seems that the famous struggle for the story that some worry about even the obsession leads us to the spurts that we're seeing here. Because, according to Mrs. Llanos' theory, we would surely be faced with the collective lie, the lie organized by 4,000 people, surely the biggest lie that has been built up in history. Better yet, the reality of torture is rejected, because it supposedly favors the story or speech of the abertzale left; that is, this eminent report, the truth that moves, reinforces our speech. Well, we're congratulations; we're happy. Because, if there is one thing that is very clear is that this report is true and portrays the truth in three facets: the undeniable truth of the people who died under torture; the truth that some courts of justice have established, little truth – I imagine it will be the 20 cases condemned by the PP, but that it will condemn and immediately be pardoned, rises up or decorates its perpetrators, civilian guards, national police officers – but also the truth that these 4,000 testimonies that have never been investigated are transmitted to us, something that is also consistent – as has been reported – with the nine times that the European Court of Rights has condemned the Kingdom of Spain, and also the Committee against Torture of the United Nations in four other cases; one of these cases, precisely in the Oskartz case, Gallas Tegi, responsible for Ertzaintza, and who has surprisingly mentioned it and has put it in the spotlight by Mrs Llanos. I know you well, Mrs Llanos, because I myself filed that complaint with the United Nations Committee against Torture. Mr. Iturrate told us that it was clear, that, in comparison, the prevention systems put in by the Ertzaintza were better than those put in by the Civil Guard or the National Police. That is, they were better than nothing, because the Civil Guard or the National Police did not put in any preventive mechanism, but on the contrary, put in place a mechanism of impunity. And it is true and I recognize that something has been tried, something cosmetic and, if you want, something not very effective, as Ararteko himself called into question. And I wonder if that's really what we chose; that is, to be something better than the Civil Guard and the National Police, because I have more expectations of Ertzaintza. I have more expectations, I have more aspirations, and because we do not want an Ertzaintza that improves the model of the Civil Guard or the National Police, but imposes a diametrically opposite model. It seems to me very serious that the debate on denial should move, and I wonder what it would look like if we denied the facts that are usually imputed to us; not denying their authorship, denying their responsibility, denying their gravity, but denying their mere existence. It would be a scandal! And I believe that today we are facing a scandal at the intention to deny the reality and the dimension of torture in this country. And I understand it because the Nazis do it by denying the Jewish holocaust and the gypsy holocaust. The Turks do this by denying the Armenian genocide. White American supremacists do this by denying indigenous genocide, apartheid. And someone has thought why not, also having some affinity, empathy, closeness to them, why not also deny the practice of torture in this country. It will not be denying the truth, concealing the facts, which also challenge our responsibility, as we build an inclusive memory, as we establish a normalized coexistence. Mr. Pastor continues to bet on the paper, but I don't think this is a model of self-criticism reading from the past, is it? I believe that with his attitude, claiming the role in the State's security forces and bodies, when it is precisely about torture, it is not the best way to delegitimize the violation of human rights and it is not the best way to give lessons in the recognition of unfair harm. I take note and learn fast! And I said yes, that the PP's negationism is contagious, and I do not know how we will rely, Mr Pastor, on the presentation, when we speak one thing, when we bring an attitude to the initiative of the People's Party, something that was contrasted and that was commented on among us not to give more talk, not to give more air, so that we do not continue to bring these kinds of initiatives and you break your word. If you're going to keep the PP going so they don't stay alone, I don't know what the management we're going to be able to do about the paper is going to be. I'm done... In the name of this battle of relatto, many cruel deeds are committed, in order to impose a lying relatto, and we ought to place the injustice which the young of Alsatsu suffer at the present day. I want to give a great hug to all the young men in the jungle, Jokin, and Adread and Alsatsu, and to their families for this shameful mount that they are suffering, because we also claim all justice from them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Finally, Eucabertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u66	Mrs. President. Mr. Arzuaga said that "Mr. Iturrate says that the Ertzaintza promoted and established preventive mechanisms". No, no, it is not said by Mr Iturrate; it is said by the report and it is said by the report, in addition, by gathering statements from international human rights monitoring bodies, and the Ertzaintza and the Basque Government are committed to the improvement and defence of all rights, including the rights of detainees. And the very task of the report by the Basque Government and the subjection to this distortion to which the People's Party has brought us are the best proof of that commitment and attitude. A report, by the way, Mrs Llanos – I repeat – in which, in none of its more than 500 pages, there is any equivalence of ETA with torture and yet you have no flushing in maintaining that shameful thesis. It's just that there's not a single mention of it, not a single mention (not implicit or explicit); but it's good for you, it's good for you to be angry; it's good for you to keep that tension in which you handle yourselves wonderfully. Because you do not intend to defend the Ertzaintza, what you intend is to tarnish the ground to hide your lack of commitment, the lack of commitment of the People's Party, the lack of courage of the People's Party, the lack of commitment to respect for the human rights of the People's Party, which leads you even to the fact that today Mrs Bengoechea is not present in this plenary room...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u67	Please be quiet. You've had your moment. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u68	This is precisely the example. Look, you were asking... You said, Mrs Llanos, that the report dominates the prosecution and the equalization. Look, I'm telling you that it's not a receipt what you're doing and what the People's Party is doing; that it's not a receipt to say that investigating or denouncing torture is playing the game with ETA, because saying that is maintaining that it's better to hide the reality, that it's better to put a mantle of silence on the victims, that it's better to revictimize the victims, and it doesn't matter that they then have to disallow their spokesman, or that the president of your party in an electoral debate has to shut up shamefully in front of another candidate's accusation. You ask whether the Basque Government is really going to stand idly by when the Ertzaintza cases are reported. Look no: the Basque Government has not even kept its arms crossed, nor will it keep its arms crossed; it will continue to implement prevention policies, will continue to improve the methods of Ertzaintza, will continue to make Ertzaintza a model of police committed to human rights. The question is, what are you going to do? What are you doing? What is the answer of Mr Catalá, Mr Rajoy, Mr Alonso, the People's Party in general, except for Mrs De Bengoechea? What are you going to say to the more than 3,000 cases, the more than 3,000 cases you report?...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u69	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u70	What is the position and response of Mr Catalá and the People's Government when there is a complaint, the last complaint of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights? Are you going to keep putting your head under the wing, covering up reality, humiliating and revictimizing the victims? That's the answer you have to give. Of course, you do not intend to defend the Ertzaina; you intend to tarnish the ground, tarnish the ground to hide your lack of commitment and your government's lack of commitment – I would say more – and your disdain about the phenomenon of torture. And you also do so with a lack of awesome courage, because you were not able, none of you here, any of the usual spokesmen of the People's Party, to look Mr. Etxeberria in the eyes and tell him what you have said here. And they sent Mrs. Bengoechea, to disallow her the next day, when...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u71	Plains andrea, isiltasuna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u72	And they sent Mrs. Bengoechea when Mr. Etxeberria was in front. I mean, not only do you intend to haunt the name of the Ertzaintza to cover your shames, but you also do so with cowardice and lack of courage. And that's not where they're gonna count on us. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Yes, Mr. Sémper? What do you want? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u74	In order to request that Mr Iturrate, beyond... for the insults he has addressed to us, I would like to formally ask you to withdraw that expression from the People's Party's lack of commitment to human rights, because it is profoundly unfair, in addition to a blunt lie. We'd like it removed by Mr. Iturrate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u75	They're just a few words that have been discussed, and they're the other way around, so... I don't think he's going to retire, so you don't want to retire, so he won't retire. After the discussion has ended, we've been asked for a few points... Dots? Permitís port portis? Well, as it has been requested for points, one and two points will be voted first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 17; rivals, 56; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u76	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; rivals, 65; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u77	So it's not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciations made by the parliamentary bands, and the necessity of increasing the presence of women in manufactures. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mrs. Troubleon, representative of the EH Collect team, has the word to present and take part in the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u78	Mrs. President, Congressman. Good morning. There is a little story, known at least, that there was a big problem with the software of the voice and reaction in the car when it first got into the market. In this great affair, when the women were speaking to him, he did not understand the Navigator. When the smokes were there, when there were calls, it had to be confessed that the software was not designed to burn a woman's voice. A group of men's engineers making a product addressed to men, and that's how he made the design. And the software of the voice reaction isn't an old story but yesterday, and yesterday the group made a terrible development in the car industry, but it lacked a main idea, and it is that of multiplicity that left half the world outside. Eta arazo handi bat yes. Subject of ikustea no la alegatu garen hona, éta horretarako emman teniaiokegu error txiki eta azkar bat gure historiari. Because, if we see the data, in the 19th century we see a progressive incorporation of women into wage work, but coupled with wage discrimination. On the eve of World War I, labour inspectors found that the gender pay differentials were 1.5 to 2 pesetas of difference, which, to take into account the amount, would be to compare that at the time a worker's newspaper was 5 pesetas. In the next decade, the average female newspaper also accounts for half, and even less, than the male wage. The truth is that at that time, when governments choose to regulate women's activity in industry, they do so, on the one hand, to have labour when needed, but, on the other, also to prevent women workers from becoming workers with the same characteristics as men. It is a conscious decision, also made at a certain time. In the early 1930s, the salary of a metal worker was 41.3% lower than that of a metal worker and, in the textile sector, the difference was 47.6. In each and every sector, the maximum wage a woman could earn never reached the minimum that a man would pay for the same job. And while the Republic represents an ephemeral improvement of rights, these disappear almost completely with the Franco dictatorship, which basically implies a renunciation of work for women, of paid work. Eta ergimen horretan, franchismoan, erepresio bortiza eabili izan zen aurreko garian lortutako eskubide politicoko éta indibidualak ezabatzeko, éta diktaduraren erepresioa emakumeak hartu zuten emantzipazio-bidea ixten saiatu izan zen. You're wasting your life. You're eremu publikotik, and you're in exile. Errepublikak onarturiko law aurrerakoi guztiak betan behera gelditu ziren, eta lan-emuko hainbat law onartu ziren, emakumeak lan-merkatutik urruntzeko helburuz, ezkontzaren eta amatasunaren aldeko pizgarriekin will beat. The limitations of women, dedicated exclusively to reproductive tasks, are also reflected in the 1938 Labour Forum, which pointed out as a conquest for the new regime, that of Francoism, which the State prohibited the night work of women and children. This ban on night work has been extended over many decades, and has been another objective obstacle for women to be able to work equally in industry. In the same way, it also regulates work at home and – quotes– "free" – close quotes – to the married woman of the workshop and factory. 1940tik aurrera, lanaren inguruko araudiak, work regulations work at home In 1957, and also by decree, women and minors were further prohibited from working because they were considered dangerous and unhealthy. It is true that there is a change in the early 1960s: Act No. 56/1961 on political, professional and labour rights of women, based on a proposal made by the Women's Section. It applied equal wages, abolished forced leave to work on grounds of marriage and, while maintaining the husband's prior authorization, it was considered that leave was granted, in fact, when the woman worked prior to marriage. It is true, until the year 1973, that women had not had the right to do all sorts of jobs, but it is true that the number of women in those days had been considerably increased. The labour force at that time, also in industry... the female labour force is also characterized for years by its low level of vocational training. With OECD studies in hand, in 1970 female wage earners reached 46.3%, reaching 60.7% in 1990. But the increase in the number of women workers is also not seen as having the same presence in all sectors. In industrial activities, it is curious but, if in 1970 there were a quarter of women workers, in 1990 it had fallen to 16.4%. The situation of women in labor is not accidental, as we have seen, the result of a natural process, but is the result of so many public and social decisions. And therefore, to change their condition, it is indispensable to take public and social decisions. I believe, moreover, that the demand for motion of March 8th this year is also, in order to make a decision, in order to ensure equality. In the last decades more and more women participated in the trade: during the job trade, the partnership of women who are at their age at work is 52%.2. In 1992, it was 38,5%. Compared to those countries which we consider to be quitrent in the Eplegue, our position is still between 8 and 13 points less. But there are other data too: For instance, among the unemployed, women are more than half. It's 56,6%, according to the data on March 2018. But it was also a tendency to increase, because it was a year ago 55%. Two years ago, 53 years ago, and three years ago, 42,6%. It's a trick. More women in the work world, but they can't find a job. And this is not all. These are 70% women who are part-time. Even in the data presented by the gift, there is also the average of wages. As appears in the study of 2015, EAE, if the average salary of one year of the workers is 26.500 euros, this follows: the average of men is 31,000 euros, and the average of women is 23,500 euros. The difference is therefore from 7.500 euros; that is to say, if we consider the rate of measurements, here in Edo, the pay-water; It's 24%.3%. And the date is no good because in 2009, 2,2 points were less. We know the biggest wages happen in industry. If we look at the IEs also, if we look at the last threemonths of 2017, if we work in the Edo industry, 43% more than the winning services, or 34% more than the construction. If, then, the greatest wages are paid in manufactures, the number of women in manufactures, which is a great mark of pay. And what are the data? Because women don't get to 20 percent. Almost 200,000 people work in the industry, but from them women don't come to 40,000. We've seen why. Now we'll have to figure out what we can do. And first, they're perceptions. An examination of perception. We have many perceptions: and stereotypes are transmitted. As has been shown in the PISA study, with the same academic rank, that is to say, when they are good, girls and boys in science and mathematics, the hopes of parents are double in the boys' case. Double! And it's a global situation. It's not just here. In Sweden, for instance, they decided to study the roles in 2010 and review all the resumes that are given in children's schools and schools. And in Hungary, in 2013, all first to eighth grade textbooks were also reviewed to eliminate stereotypes and to develop awareness of gender equality. New content has been introduced; for example, when you study Physics, one of the parts is how the professional career is and examples of women are given, and the history books also discuss gender equality throughout each period and how the evolution of traditional roles has been. Other countries have taken other measures, which also have to do with training teachers to recognize and face biases or prejudices; others also educate guidance teams... And in all cases, what is clear from the decisions made by the education systems is that they do not reduce their actions to support women or girls, but they also pose a critical review of the culture and norms of men among young and adult children, men, in one field, the industrial, male-dominated, as a cause of discrimination against women and girls. Moreover, talking about industry, at the dawn of industry 4.0, involves talking about disruption, innovation and integration, and nothing can be given if, of course, we are not disruptive and innovative by introducing women. We're a long way from equality. The 2014 World Economic Forum report said that parity would be achieved in 81 years, in 2095, but with data updated the following year, the 2015 report delayed to 117 the years needed to achieve parity. What was the basis of those studies? For on different issues, such as that there is a wage gap between men and women in all industries; that it is much more difficult for women to get a promotion than for men, the so-called glass ceiling It's funny too, but the feedback. And also a curious fact: there are sectors like ICT where the number of women – and this is also a global trend – has been decreasing from the 1990s until now. And the disconnection of reality is a disconnection of data, because, as that old adage says, only what is measured is managed. And, for example – there is no data from the Autonomous Community; we have data from Europe – when studies are carried out, what is measured? Well, 76% of the studies measure the number of women in the management teams, but they do not measure issues such as the level of retention of employees by gender, which is only 32% of the studies; the wage gap is only 25%; the proportion of women's requests to be part of the management in a 32... And what is the financial impact? Of the management teams that have women, only 2% of the cases are studied. And by the way, they give very positive results. What isn't measured, doesn't exist. There are also no career plans, only 18% of companies have programmes for women in professional development; only 18. Within organizations, too, perception and perspective are gender disconnected. When men and women in industry are asked what are the reasons for not achieving leadership positions, the answers are as follows: because there is a shortage of female candidates, 42% of men think, but only 7% of women; because there are conflicts to parallel it with the family, say 44% of men, and only 24% of women; because there is a bias in the organization itself, say only 15% of men, and 28% of women. We quite agree that it is the culture of values, which is predominantly male in 25% and 28% of cases. There is a disconnect between what is said and what is done. Sectors, business organizations... agree on the value of diversity, where there are few women, but that is not accompanied by concrete measures. We've seen the causes, we've seen history, we've seen the regulations, we've seen the corporate culture. We, when asking our group to the Employment Advisor why she put self-exclusion on women in the job, showed her that she was wrong, because that is not the case. And also when our group brought in the words of the president of Confebask, we also showed that he was wrong, because they are not tendencies, they are cultural impositions, on which there are act. And women, where are they? They ask each other sometimes. Emakumeak, don't you? And the women studied and analysed all this, and on the street as on March 8th, where they sent us a clear message: the latter must be changed; the latter must be subverted. And the elder women said clearly: they do not want what they have lived for young men. The door of equality is very locked. We have a key here today. Let's use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. lópez, Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mrs Larion, we share the arguments that you have given here. And I, for giving some more information about women in the Basque Autonomous Community, look at the EPA survey, carried out by the National Institute of Statistics, where it says that Basque women are in charge of 67% of the worst-paid occupations in the entire labour market, category 5: female employees, waitresses, cooks, care of older and younger, nursing assistants; category 9: domestic service mainly. The average wages corresponding to these categories are at the tail of the scale. In these jobs there are 176,800 Basques, 41% of the total female workforce. The male presence in these jobs is much smaller: 87,000 Basque workers, 18% of their workforce. But on the contrary, men are overwhelmingly in categories 7 and 8, related to industry and construction, where there is little female track. They do not reach even 8% of jobs and where average wages are around much higher quotas. The industry, of course, is male; that is one of the keys to gender pay inequality: Basque women are barely present in the industry, while they predominate in services, where the average wage is 26% lower. From the work area of Confebask, Virginia Múgica said: "We have been campaigning for years to guide women towards industry-related training, disseminating among other tools the study of careers of women who have studied FP in technical branches, but it is difficult to overcome certain stereotypes that are deeply rooted in society and in the family and environment of our young people." This is very detrimental to competitiveness because talent is not in the place it should be, and it influences the choice that girls make when it comes to training. EPA statistics also tell us that it seems contradictory that there are so many women in these low-paid categories of work, when we have been a female majority in Basque universities for years, 57% of women graduates, according to Lanbide. Another occupational category with a high female working population is category 2, which corresponds to doctors, nurses, lawyers, pharmacists, teachers and economists. 121,500 women are in this category, 28 %, a category that is largely part of the public employment of Euskadi, 61 %, which does give some protection to women. But the public sector does not compensate for the supply of inequality in the private sector and, in addition, in the public sector, women are also the majority in the lowest, lowest-skilled positions, such as cleaning, nursing assistants, etc. Conciliation remains in the hands of women; they are the ones who demand 96.5 per cent of the daily reductions, why the careers of female students, brilliant in high school and selectivity, then choose professions that are less remunerated and with worse career exit? Only 15% of women graduates in selectivity decide to choose an electronic or computer engineering. And what are the factors? There are many studies, and I think they all agree that decisions made at the age of beginning university are based, to a greater or lesser extent, on the stereotypes on which one wants to project. TV and movies, what do they tell us? Computers or engineers are always men who are disheartened, isolated, rare and unattractive; never does an interesting and strong woman appear represented as a mathematics or an aeronautical engineer. A study at the universities of Illinois, New York and Princeton showed that girls, from the age of six, avoid carrying out some technical activities, on the pretext that they do them better because they are smarter. The contributions of women working in these fields are invisibly and in some way discredited. Young people have no figures to identify with: the contribution of women scientists in the fields of pure science and technology is rarely exposed; only 8% of the faculty of engineering faculties is female, according to the latest scientific report in Figures In addition, a certain gender bias persists that insists that women are more gifted for the work that involves care, communication, intervention in the social environment, as if we had to extend the myth of maternal instinct to the rest of society. This option is tremendously valuable, but it can also be performed by men and women. If the future is in the hands of robotics and programming, why not let our daughters be as well prepared as possible? The OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development), in September 2017, warned Spain that the proportion of women who choose careers related to information and communication technologies is only 12%, compared to 19 in all OECD countries. He recalled that higher studies in science, technology, engineering and mathematics are key to a country's economic growth and innovation. In Spain, the supply of places for engineering and architecture studies, in the last 10 years, has fallen by 8.3% to adapt to demand. In Spanish public universities, only 21% are female teachers; however, in private universities, 43% are female teachers. A month ago, there was a STEM forum in Barcelona, where 300 students participated to arouse their interest in scientific and technological careers, and they put the emphasis on encouraging women to opt for one, in which only 25%, one of four students is female and in some cases the percentage is down to 12%. The experts participating in this forum, which this year was the third edition, have highlighted that the professional profiles linked to these careers are the most demanded by companies and that the lack of interest has diminished among young Europeans. This is a tremendous contradiction. Experts have also argued that fear of failure, especially in the case of women, prevents students from studying technical and scientific professions, and added that, in reality, there is no need to have a brilliant record to study engineering, physics or mathematics, but to be motivated and want to do so. This is an area that students do not know and that they often find unattractive, as evidenced by the fall they have experienced, as I said before, in science, technology, engineering and mathematics enrolments. For example, the aeronautical engineer of the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid María Huerta has assured that "it is not necessary to have a brilliant file". These examples, I think it is good that they are repeated in education: that you just have to be motivated. And one of the aspects that most hinders the youth's bet in these careers is, as I said before, the fear of failure, which in the case of women is being accused. The project coordinator Hypatia and research biologist have said that "girls get as good grades as boys, but they have a higher self-censorship and the goal is to break these stereotypes around STEM careers, so it is important to communicate science in an inclusive way, looking for examples that interest girls." This was the amendment we tabled to the initiative presented by EH Bildu. We said, as a first point, that the Basque Parliament urged "the Basque Government, together with the actors involved in the industrial sector and the area of education, to analyse the causes that hinder the greater presence of women in all functional areas, in decision-making groups, or in quality and innovation groups, in representative bodies in the business sphere, as well as the low interest shown by women in industry-related training". This seems important to us, to make a diagnosis, but also to participate in the educational area, because it seems to us that it is the area where there is a lot of work to be done. We also asked the Basque Government "to draw up a strategic plan, together with the actors involved in the industrial sector and on the basis of the findings of this analysis, with measures aimed at increasing the integration of women in all areas of the industrial sector". We asked that "the tools that today run the industrial sector, such as Confebask, the corporate confederation, adapt to the new times"; they are old, old, they are 10 years old, both the Manual of Good Practices in the Incorporation of Women to Basque SMEs Mrs. Larion – I don't know if by... I imagine that for lack of time – he has not mentioned the compromise amendment we have agreed on, but well, I think it is a very powerful amendment, that there is an important agreement between all the socio-economic actors involved in the educational field to make that comprehensive action plan, to increase the presence of women in the Basque industry. Also in this compromise amendment, we urge the Basque Government "to draw up, together with the actors involved, and to adopt during this parliamentary term a strategic plan with measures aimed at increasing the incorporation and presence of women in industry, and also to review and update previous studies and manuals for the same purpose". We also urge the Basque Government "that, in both the action plan and the strategic plan, it collect, among other measures, detailed planning of stimulus proposals aimed at attracting more women, especially young women, to studies in the fields of education related to industry and science (both vocational and university education and others)". We also urge the Basque Government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u81	Finish up, Mrs. Octave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u82	... "that, in the context of the discussions of the action plan and the strategic plan, the legal viability and the desirability of establishing compulsory quotas for women on the boards of directors of companies be assessed – if I may, I will finish the compromise amendment". We urge the Basque Government "to increase and make visible the presence of women in industry, in cases where they are entitled to be on the boards of directors of companies, to ensure that such representation is equal". In point 6, we urge the Basque Government "to take measures to increase and make visible the presence of women on an equal footing in all the seminars, talks and other public events it organizes related to industry". The Basque Parliament also urges "that, in order to increase the presence of women in industry, it promote economic and social measures to advance equal pay, promote corporate wage transparency and combat wage discrimination". And we also urge the Basque Government "to promote measures to reconcile personal, family and work life in order to increase the presence of women in industry". Thank you, Madam President, and thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u84	Good afternoon. From our coalition, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we welcome the compromise that we have signed by all the groups, following the initiative in this case of the proposed group of EH Bildu; because, first of all, beyond the fact that, of course, we pursue the same objectives as set out in the original initiative, it seems to us that, in this case, the fact that there is a unanimous agreement also implies an obligation – between quotes – "extra" for the Government, in that it will have to put into practice what we have finally agreed today. This is important to us, because we believe that the initiative contains specific issues, eight long points. Mrs López de Ocariz has described it as powerful; I share it, although it is then true that, when it comes to putting into practice what we approve today, there are also different ways of putting it into practice. It seems to us that there is a need for a strategic plan to pursue these objectives, that of increasing the presence of women in our industrial sectors. We also agree that there should be a more concrete action plan, as reflected in the final compromise. It is true that we think that the most interesting part is that of a strategic plan, because it seems to us that this is a long-term issue – unfortunately, long-term or medium-term – and I think the reasons why they have also been given by the compañeras who have intervened before me. This is not solved in a quick way, unfortunately, but it is a problem that we have and that needs to be solved. Firstly, it cannot be that in a society where 51% of people are women, in the industrial sector they do not reach 20%. This can't be. But there is also, in fact, a problem that has been described, which is that precisely the industrial sectors, in our productive model, are those sectors with better working conditions and are those sectors where there are higher wages. That is why it is no accident that it is precisely in these sectors where there is less presence of women, and I believe that in this case Mrs Larion has made a historical description, which I share, quite correct of these issues. And some of these concrete consequences are the famous wage gap, which we're talking about so much. "Fortunately we speak because there is and, if there is, we must speak of it," and some even sometimes show doubts about it. For one of the reasons – as has already been said – for the existence of this powerful wage gap in the case of Euskadi is precisely this, that these sectors where there are higher wages are masculinized sectors, where more than 80% are men and, on the contrary, in the most precarious sectors and with the lowest wages, the majority of women workers are women. Therefore, we understand that this is a fundamental career, and we wanted to put – in order to try not to repeat too much – the focus on what point 2 is in our amendment, but also in the other amendments and the original proposal addressed this issue, which is the educational issue, because here there is a problem before that of the under-presence of women in industry, which is the under-presence of women in the educational branches which are intended precisely for the employment exits of industry. We will hardly be able to overcome this percentage of 19.20 % of the presence of women in industry, if we have a presence of around 7 % of women in the educational sectors that go to industry, when most of the workers in industry come precisely from the education system of these branches. That is why it seems to us that this is a very important issue. But it is also true that it is not only in these branches of the education system, it is in the whole of the education system; because, indeed, the root problem is the patriarchal values that still maintains our society today and that relegate women still today, even if it is no longer explicitly stated, as in the case to which Mrs Larrion has referred..., even if it is not explicitly stated, but they are there implicitly. It still exists! And there still exists not only discrimination, but that division of roles between women and men, which leads to women... still gives them the reproductive role in our society. Therefore, it seems to us that this needs a medium-long-term plan. It seems to us that the strategic plan is more important than the concrete action plan, which we think is great and that we too will support it. It seemed important to us – it is also collected, of course – to have the agents. We always say this, but on this occasion I will say that, although it is very important to have both employers and trade unions – I always focus on trade unions, in this case, because they also work on this issue and also have proposals – but today I will again focus on education professionals, because education professionals have also repeatedly drawn attention to this issue. Because it is true that this is not new either; it is true that things have been done in the past, but it is true that it is not just given with key, and surely it is not just given with the key, because this needs to be addressed in an integral way, because it is a responsibility of the whole of society, because we still have that macho and patriarchal mentality, which leads us to finally women..., who do not have to demonstrate that preparation anymore because they are proving that, come on, they are overly prepared; it is absurd today to have to do these approaches. But it is true that then, when choosing the branches of exit, the professionals of the education system find that there is no presence of women or there is a low presence of women. And this comes because we continue to assume that women have to go to certain jobs and men have to go to other jobs. And we therefore included a third point, which has finally not been taken up, because it does not focus so much on the issue of industry, but which we think is important, in the sense that we cannot accept that there are less precarious and very precarious sectors. Because the relationship that exists between the most precarious sectors and the feminization that they have is closely linked, precisely, to the choice of women when it comes to not going to the branches of industry, because it is the most precarious sectors that have a number of characteristics, beyond the salary, which also of course affects, which is a high turnover in jobs, a high temporality and a very high partiality. And here it has been said: women cover or account for 70% of partial contracts. And these more precarious sectors, in which such high partiality is allowed, what they are saying is that women have to go to these sectors because women have to do part-time work, because they are the ones who have to devote themselves to reproductive tasks at a certain time in their lives and throughout their lives. And therefore, we think that this is closely linked and we think that we must also fight against precariousness in these sectors, especially in this sense of temporality, partiality and high turnover in jobs. This certainly gives rise to another initiative, and today we do not divert the focus from the need for our productive model and our society, for more women to be present in it, and for this presence to have to reach at least 50-51%, because 51% of our society is women. We therefore agree with the compromise that has been reached, and we hope that the Basque Government will take this initiative, which will be approved with the vote of all those who are here, will put it into effect and that all groups will also be waiting for it to be implemented, because surely that is where we will also find differences in how this has to be put into practice. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u86	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, good afternoon. The Basque Socialist Group shares with the proposer and the rest of the parliamentary groups the proposal, let us say, agree, which has been signed and which is going to be presented here today and which we are debating. There has been a lot of data and I believe that the important thing about the initiative is that we share a diagnosis, and I believe that reaching agreements on what is the diagnosis is already important and is already a first step, as Mr Hernández also pointed out. I think that, if there is something that really draws attention to the presence of Basque women in what is the industrial sector, it is perhaps the lowest level, when one starts from what is education, from what is training, because sometimes reaching the last end where the situation is also requires taking a look back to see where we are going from. And starting from a situation in Euskadi where for 10 years the percentage of girls who are doing industry-related vocational education and training continues to remain for 10 years at 6%, when 100% of boys and girls who are doing related vocational education and training or who have to do with industry branches do not spend more than six months in which 100% are inserted into the labour market, it seems to me that this is a fact to be taken very seriously. What happens when in education, in the vocational training programme, only 6% of women study industry-related studies, when they are fully confident that 100% has employment in no more than six months when they finish vocational training, and that should give us what to think and what to do. And we should also bear in mind that, in industrial activity, less than one woman for every three men engages in this activity. And I am not going to give any more information, because Mrs Larion has given it, because Mrs López de Ocariz has given it, and because it is not a question of boredom here either, but of making it fully clear that this is an issue on which we should do something and on which we have been able to reach a compromise and compromises that I understand are important, and which I would not take away from them. As Mr Hernández said, well, we will see how they are being implemented, but the important thing is to take a first step and that there really is an agreement and a consensus on what commitments the Basque Government must adopt, and I believe that the six commitments of an action plan, of a strategic plan are very important... In addition, let this strategic plan value and see the possibility of legal certainty in establishing compulsory quotas for the participation of women in the boards of directors of companies; the issue of ensuring parity in the boards of directors where the Basque Government is involved in those companies; ensuring that there is an increasing presence of women in the forums, in the talks and in the seminars where the issue of industry has to be addressed; and that this is guaranteed by the Basque Government in those forums it organizes, it seems absolutely fundamental to me. Because sometimes the little steps in the end are taking... and making progress, and I think this is the case with the initiative. Equality, which has been intangible for a long time and for many years – and more in the sector we are dealing with today – I believe that today is beginning to be an important part of politicians' agendas, of public administration agendas. And in this matter it is not only the public administration that must actually carry out actions; there is the public administration, there are also the companies, there are the trade union agents, and, therefore, here there is a lot of work on the part of everyone to tie the shoulder and to row in the same direction. And I believe that today – the agreement that we are going to reach among all of us today – on what measures to adopt to expand, to increase the presence of women in the Basque industry sector, I believe that it should be seen as another victory for women. A victory that is going to make the gender gap today, or starting today, something smaller and we are really achieving equality; but that real equality and not so much legal equality that we are already quite immersed in. Therefore, congratulations to all those who have intervened in making this agreement possible. This seems to me very important today and perhaps most relevant: unanimity. We all agree on the diagnosis and also on the solutions. We have left some hairs in the catamaran to reach an agreement, perhaps an agreement of minimums for some, equal to maximums for others; but, of course, there is a real commitment on the part of the Basque Government that we must make progress on equality, and I believe that today we have all achieved that. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u88	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. I'll start at the end. Mrs. Corcuer mentioned that it's a happy commitment that this middle-way brings forward in a circle of equality. In the pliant of control we had last week in the interpenetration of Mrs. Housebar and Mrs. In that sense Mr. Hernandez said that what we signed today is giving us homework, but, well, the extra job is for fun, and it's clear that the engagement is on: Amongst the 15 ends of the fun, one enters into the circle of equality, to reach the fourth place in the fifth part of Europe, which is not natural: if we all unite-and it will be easier to push them together, it will be easier to advance. Yes, ma'am, yes, Ms. lópez de Octariz, to Corcuez, Hernández... Well, you've been studying the reasons, the reasons for this situation, and the data has been given to get into this situation, and Mrs. lópez has already read us this medium correction we've all signed. And, well, I'm telling you, like the representatives of the two teams of lawmen that protect the fun, that up until now, in general, in the circle of equality, it's been a precursor Basque. The President used to tell us without it, and I believe it was the work we've all done among us: The same results, from the creation of the principle of equality, from the union of the institutions of equality, and all this has been done and has its answers. The camp of change, I believe it is very high in this society, which is not sudden, this consciousness, this necessity... we all agree in this, that it is necessary in this sphere, in the sphere of industry, and in other sectors. While I've been talking to you in this negotiation camp, we thought that there are other compounds within the scope of construction, within the scope of the logistics, which are visible in this equality, right? But although we agree in this diagnosis, we have here been able to unite the different political parties, as has been said: but we have been able to agree with all of us, and all of us to go on together. And I believe that such steps, such agreements, and such political protection, and that such a protection afterwards gives them the ability to encourage them more in society, and that is seen in the street, which is done in several undertakings. I think what has been done so far, and what has been done in this respect, that it is well to say, and to remember at the present moment how many measures have been made, how many undertakings, and how many undertakings, connected with women and industry, only from the last month's fun: As a matter of fact, in March 19th, yes, there was the Network, which aims at multiplying the influence of equalityal plans. The network of entities for equality has been officially established this morning, and 60 entities signed their commitment last month. On that day 60 companies of various sectors were signed the Network, the Company for Equality, and the network of Entitys. This very week we read from education, from Professional Professions, a special campaign, and the headline that appears in the press: "Educacion se plante passorn dos años de 1.500 a 3000 alumnas in FP industrial." From the gift, from the Board of Education, from the Education Department, from the Education Department, from the Education Department... Even this week: On April 16th, there's also a frame of agreement signed between the different sets of Confebask and A-Ming. In the Basque Autonomia Esquimia, employment and cooperation to promote training were signed, and a particular part is directed to women. "This supply-demand adequacy requires, among other things, close collaboration for the development of the potentialities of existing public action programmes or to be developed in areas such as the increase and active incorporation of women into the labour market, especially in those activities in which they are overrepresented and in those professions most demanded by the productive fabric." We have just heard of the measures given by the United States and the Department of Society. From St. Joseph's Department of Job and Justice, we know how to work in proportion to the equality of wages, in order to overcome the pay-alas, and to work with different institutions and motives. It's going to be a complex subject, not just as it was, because it's going to be a five-parte of fun, and because it's going to be an initiative and a job, and it's gonna have a lot of energy in the private area and all that's gonna have to be combined. And there's a great need to do this. In this sense, I think it will be very necessary, that it will be difficult, that it will be complex, and that all of us will go forward and help in this. It's just one more step, and now it's moving forward. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing over to the answering round, yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u90	Yeah, from the... Now that I haven't had time for the first round, and I'm grateful to the rest of the teams that it's been easy, really, to get to this agreement, because we agreed with the diagnosis. I'm supposed to say, when I started work 25 years ago in industry, I might like to be running this thing, at least 25 years later, we've been able to agree with it. We'll keep our agreement carefully; but, I think, what we're told on March 8th is partly the year it's a year for a progress in the equality of 2018s.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u91	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Anybody else want to be involved? No. Well, since the discussion is over, we'll vote EH, together Podemos, Basque Popular, Euzia Socialists and Eubertarians have signed the media. We can vote. (Pause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u92	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting till four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and forty-five.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u93	Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary band together, concerning the guarantee of human rights in the harbour of Bilbo. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn to propose teams, together, Miss Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u94	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, monsieur, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. April 26th is coming. On that day we shall remember the bombarding of Guernica, which is known throughout the world, a people and its population were bombed. In the next 26th we shall remember direct victims, and also the dark years that lived in this land. In those times of war, thousands of people decided to survive by starting an uncertain path to other lands. After the war ended, plunged into a long 40-year-old night, thousands continued to seek decent lives in other latitudes. First in America, then in Germany or Switzerland. Some of the destinations chosen for economic reasons, but also in search of freedom, societies that did not oppress life and political elections. In Barakaldo, Eibar or Gasteiz, thousands of people from all over the state also arrived in search of more and better opportunities, some fleeing from extreme precariousness. Willingly? I'm sure if we ask them, you didn't have a lot of options to live on. In recent years, thousands of young people, also in Euskadi, have had to travel to fulfill life projects, professional or personal dreams, because here life does not give them enough opportunities. Migration and the search for refuge have been a constant in the last decades of our history, for war, for dictatorship, for economic or personal situations. Thousands of Basques and Basques, thousands of people from multiple backgrounds have decided to look for opportunities elsewhere, and they follow and will continue to do so. And just as it is legitimate for us to do so, and we want and want loved ones who choose that path to do so in the best conditions, so it is legitimate, or should be, at least to be chosen by people who come from bombed countries, with limited freedoms or with precarious economies; because it is legitimate for people to choose to seek decent life opportunities elsewhere. And we think it's also legitimate that these turns and turns are not news. We would not have to appeal to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, if we were not in a context of closure and militarization of borders, walls, wires, Europe's fortress; a time when thousands are looking for opportunities, because that is what the proposal we put on the table today is about. You turn your gaze and your speech away, but it is human beings and human rights that we come to talk about today. In this context, Euskadi is not an oasis in the desert, it is not an island in the Pacific, and therefore it does not escape this reality. Migration, shelter and, especially today, people in transit are also Basque agendas, because the Basque agenda, from the institutions, we have to address it, and therefore we have to take responsibility for this issue. The issue we are presenting here is an initiative to exchange, discuss and promote measures to help improve the situation at home; not in Madrid, not in Europe, here. And even though we know that comprehensive solutions are needed, today we are proposing a part (solutions to a multidimensional problem), but for one reason or another, two groups have not registered opinions and the parties that support the Government say that it is not their competence and they are talking about something else. Something that's not wrong, but that's certainly not what we wanted to talk about. Because one for another our house is still unscathed, and here nothing happens, we stay as we are or, worse still, we normalize situations of deep injustice. More than a year ago, there has been an increase in people in transit settled in the vicinity of the port of Bilbao; despite the repeated evictions, there they continue, because, as we have already said on more than one occasion, it is impossible to stop those who have nothing to lose. People who pass through Euskadi on their way to the UK and who, for reasons that certainly escape their hands, cannot buy a plane ticket like you or me. That is why they are forced to use insecure and rights-infringing ways; that is why life is literally played out. It is generating, installing and, what is worse, naturalizing a situation that is far too complex, a painful and dangerous situation for the people in transit themselves, but not only for them, also for the whole of Euskadi, and here there is no magic wand, that we know. From Elkarrekin We can recognize that this situation has many edges; it is true that some of the causes come from decisions taken elsewhere or by institutions and powers other than this house and of course the Government, but from our group we propose solutions that, even today seem partial or small, allow us to walk to what we can do. To start with and repeat something that we have already committed ourselves to on several occasions, our group is committed to ensuring that the transfer of the competence of the section of the ports is carried out; we want this management from here and we have expressed it on different occasions. But it is also true that today, in the meantime That is why, in the face of the debate that we are starting now, what we think of Elkarrekin We may lack are not competences, but political will, real commitment, commitment not to continue throwing balls out, because within the competitive difficulty that operates around the port of Bilbao, which is the first thing we recognize, and trying to map out everything that conflues in this situation, we understand that we have to attend to several things. On the one hand, at the state level and, on the other, at the local level and at the autonomous level, because in this proposal that we are working here today – we hope that in a short time – we are also working at the state level; we know that all these levels are being questioned. But these can't be on top of each other, they have to go together, one and the other. We know, and you can't deny, that the local police, the port security, the Ertzaina... have frequent contact with people in transit and often in situations – let's say – of great complexity for all parties. And here is the task of the Basque institutions. We also know that the Civil Guard and the National Police are usually present, but we will question them in the appropriate proposal. We are clear that security is not the only actor operating in this situation, but it is one of the axes that worries us, an axis that is fundamental, because port security is a key actor in this situation. I insist, not the only one, but a key actor. We are concerned about the safety of transiters; we are concerned about coexistence and neighbours. And, no doubt, we are concerned about the situation they are facing professionals who are not necessarily trained to do so. The port of Bilbao, judging by its declarations and actions, is concerned about the security of the facilities. The municipalities are also concerned about safety, hygiene and coexistence in the municipalities. And the government is concerned about the safety of ferries, goods and businesses. In conclusion and trying to find common ground, we are all concerned about security, critical infrastructure and also people's, even if it seemed to be on one side more than the other. Faced with this concern, we have different paths to take: that of the Bilbao Harbour Authority, building the "wall of shame", strengthening the staff for control and surveillance tasks, increasing the presence of private or other security. Another way to give more and better security, more and better knowledge to those who have to perform security functions and have no tools to do so, conditions that will undoubtedly improve – or could improve, if agreed – the security of all human beings around this situation. I inform you, for those who do not usually handle these issues, that the personnel assigned to the Port Police Service do not have competence in the matter of citizen security; however, they do have a fundamental role in the control and maintenance of the security of the port compound and also have a duty of collaboration, at the request of the forces and security forces of the State. The staff of the Port Police in 2017 was made up of 105 people. 105 persons without specific training in human rights or in dealing with different nationalities. But not only that, through the means and appearances, on occasions when we have been able to address this, both Mrs Tapia and Mrs Hernando have moved us to the point where state security forces and bodies are involved, but also Ertzaintza is involved, but also local police are involved. In this meantime We've been having a settlement of people in transit for a year or a year and a half. And in the face of this reality we understand that it is essential that new knowledge, content, competences be worked out... in all the people involved. New tools for professionals, who do not necessarily have to know, to face this situation. That is why we were bringing this proposal today. A proposal for these agents to acquire or update their human rights training. Because this limbo situation that is lived in the port of Bilbao must be addressed with certainty for all parties: for goods, for people and also for professionals... Situations where transit, migration, asylum, nationality, inter-country agreements, rights of goods, police stations... Situations where training and information are key. Guarantees are needed for everyone, for those involved in security and for those who have to be treated with security. They all need a clear framework and a guarantee that their performance is the right one. To this end, we propose solutions that go beyond the walls and the simple increase of professionals. We put on the table to analyze the training needs, to propose new formations, to update the existing ones, to complement the existing ones, to elaborate a diagnosis of the needs of these bodies and forces and security personnel that intervene in the vicinity of the port. We plan this diagnosis to be carried out in collaboration, as it cannot be otherwise, with all the institutions questioned. Because in the field of human rights, let us not forget, competition we all have. To encourage the realization of a specific formation, because there is not, for the staff of the Harbour Police, of the Municipal Police that operates in the vicinity of the port, in collaboration of course with the municipalities, for the personnel of the Ertzaintza with functions in the area and also in collaboration with the State Government, for the forces and bodies of state security. And all this urgently, because this issue does not allow any further delays. Furthermore, and because we know that we do not start from scratch, we understand that a common framework of work should be created with the Human Rights Observatory, which is being promoted by the Government in collaboration with the Red Cross. We could have reached an agreement; we could have approached it differently, we could have negotiated, but it was not possible. You've decided to keep looking somewhere else. Today we remain alone but with our heads very high; because, you say what you say, this issue cannot come out of the Basque agenda. It is an agenda that for you equally is not as interesting as the high speed train or other large infrastructures, but it is agenda because it affects the moral size of this earth. "The war begins here" is the motto of Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak's caravan, which will soon travel Euskal Herria, because we have responsibility, opportunity and possibility to do better and you are looking elsewhere. When it comes to improving attention to humanitarian phenomena, there should be no problem in uniting efforts, because it is from each one's competence, from the place we have, that we have to find the task of all. A joint effort is undoubtedly the best solution for people who are affected by this situation, for those who are in transit and for those who are having to improvise day by day in their profession in the face of the disdain of those who do not give them tools. There are coordination tables, security boards, multiple systems of cooperation to reach agreements that involve effective police training that is adequate to the situation we are dealing with today. If they considered that bringing him here was not what we had to do, they would have to put forward another type of amendment or we would have to speak in another type of space. But they haven't. They have decided to look elsewhere, and that for us is not having the political will to make this a priority. If it is impossible to-day, we hope for commitment, will, and generosity in the future. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. This is the turn of the teams that have issued the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I would not like to start with thick words, but thick words should not have started this intervention either. I'll start by looking the other way: There are issues of the Government, of the Basque institutions, of this and others, where we can actually talk about looking elsewhere, setting other priorities, but I think this is not exactly one of them. She is not one of them and also the proposer or the person who spoke on behalf of the proposer group knows her perfectly well, right? Another amendment could have been made, yes. Another amendment could have been made, but the point is that the amendment tabled responds to the criteria with which the proposing groups understand that this issue needs to be addressed. This is also not the first time we have said this, because it is not the first time that this issue has been discussed. And this is not the first time that in the Basque Government, at least in the area I deal with – I work as a parliamentarian – which is that of human rights, it has been dealt with. We have had – as Mrs Guanche knows – detailed information; we try to have even before the Easter holiday – I say this because I have the fortune to coordinate this group – another meeting to coordinate more information; it was not possible because of the accumulation of tasks, of work, of the various parliamentarians who are part of the presentation – well, and of a parliamentarian, Mr Barrio – but it has not been looked at elsewhere. It's just that thick words and anything can't be said. It can be said that it does not act in accordance with the policies that the group has the full right to propose, partial or total, to address this issue. But it cannot be said either that there has been no information or that, for the present Basque Government, as for previous ones, no response has been made or no attempt has been made to provide a response in accordance with human rights, from the outset. From respect for human rights We are talking about this particular group, because we are going to focus the debate a little bit – these people – Mrs Guanche said at the end of her speech – are mostly people in transit; they are not migrants who want to develop their lives and integrate into Basque society, to whom another perspective of attention can be put, but to whom we must ensure, to the extent possible, that all the public authorities whose competence is in our country, act in accordance with human rights, and guarantee them the basic rights in this step for our country, be transitory, be definitive, but in this case it is also transitory. And it's done! Because it's always been done. Because, until they were deprived of access to health care in the rest of Spain, they stayed here. Because it's also done in education. Because we are also trying to do so in social protection, and because we even have a Human Rights and Co-existence Plan, which does not have it by other autonomous communities or does not have it by the State, in order to respond comprehensively to these actions. That plan – I will not bring it because we have formed all parts of it in its elaboration, in its contributions – refers, even specifically, to how human rights training, the principle of humanity, solidarity and responsibility, with regard to Ertzaintza and the rest of the public authorities that have to intervene. And I know you share those principles. We were at a meeting and Mrs Hernando detailed the situation, the proposals with which we were going to act, with which we were going to respond, and, as far as possible, we also took note of the fact that there could be certain already criminal movements, of plots, in which the Ertzaintza had to place special emphasis. I have looked a little bit at training, training courses – I don't have that scope – but I have looked at the training courses that take place in Ertzaintza – I suppose the other forces and security forces do the same. I also believe, indeed, that there must be such training and that it must be coordinated. That is why – you said it yourself – there are security boards, both within our country and at the state level, where we can pool this joint action of all the police, this training against hate crimes, against trafficking, against discrimination, which can be informed in the same way. But we – just as you said, I think we understood it – believe that the issue of security is not just about police. And the subject of... No, no, well, I believe, in the end, we can laugh at everything we want, but all those involved in the issue of immigration, migration policies and refugees in this Parliament, in plenary and outside, we have shared that mostly: that security policies are not going to solve, only security, the problem of migration policies. And we have committed ourselves, in a no, to two non-law proposals or proposals, to ensuring human rights. I am not going to deny them, but I am not going to make the proposer group turn away either, because I know you share them. The basic needs and rights of people are being addressed in relation to the situation, particularly around the port of Bilbao. My group, on the occasion of another debate that also brought the group of Elkarrekin Podemos, more related to the infrastructure of the port, has already been able to express, in the words of Eneko Andueza moreover, his opinion of the wall. But it is not my decision, nor this Parliament's, to build or not a wall within the port of Bilbao, but its president and the governing bodies. What is incumbent on this Parliament, and on the Government which controls this Parliament, is that human rights policies, which inform the public authorities within this area, respond to the human rights principles contained in the Government Agreement, from the first of the points to the end; another thing is that we can counter them if they are done better or worse. And the same in a plan of coexistence – I insist and I say again – in which we have all been part. I am not going to question, under any circumstances, that Elkarrekin's proposal We can or cannot improve those actions to guarantee the basic rights of people in transit in the performance of public authorities. No, no, I believe that, through its coordinated or organised approach among the various police officers acting, it can be a part of the fact that they have complementary training and that it is dealt with by the different security forces and bodies within that area. What I think, modestly – and therefore I don't look anywhere but the front, which you are the one I am addressing, eh – is that this can be done in an integral way, as we have put forward in other proposals that we have discussed on this subject. Because, within nothing, we will have a proposal also not of law presented by the group We may have identical denomination than this, another justification and other measures. We can understand that it would have been proposed or dealt with in a joint or comprehensive way, or presented as a joint action. But by the fact that We can, Elkarrekin We can, present it in this way, I would never dare to question the commitment of the Elkarrekin group We can with human rights in public policies: their demand, their control and, where they do, their execution. Never... Another thing: then one cannot question the same thing because one amendment or another is tabled, or is answered in one way or another. I insist: I am not in the Basque Government; I am part of one of the groups that supports it. And, in other matters, it can be evaluated, depending on political ideology, how it is answered or how it is not answered to this question. In this, I believe – and I can be corrected by all the groups who are here; I am prepared – that we have had very detailed information, which is making a tremendous effort to ensure that the Basque Government guarantees and coordinates respect for and guarantees for these people, their basic rights, and, of course, to work also with the other forces and security forces to do so. The correctness of that effort will have to work together. But value judgments on how human rights are fulfilled... I insist: I am not in the Congress of Deputies and I am not going to pronounce –puf, I do not think about it – on the decisions that are made there. But everyone is in the place he is; he has the information he has, and he knows what his governments and the opposition are doing. And I believe that, indeed, the proposal can be well raised – for us the answer is more comprehensive – but, of course, the value judgments, in no case, would occur to me – indeed, never – either to Mrs Guanche or to the proposing group in this case, and, on that issue, not to any of the groups in the House either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all good evenings. Gaur eztabaidara datorkigun gaiak Bilboko portuan giza eskubideak bermatzea dauka helburu. Gai Honetan, hainbat will say tarteko daden ñabardurak, eta horiek guztiak kontuan hartu behar ditugu egora ondo ulertzeko. We must bear in mind that this is a reality of special sensitivity and, at the same time, we must be sincere and responsible in what we say, with the firm aim of guaranteeing the dignity, security, rights and duties of each and every person and institution participating in it. We could therefore say that we are facing a situation with a double side. On the one hand, there are the legal obligations that assist the port of Bilbao, through the different legislation in force, and there is also the guarantee of the human rights of the people, of all the people who arrive in Euskadi. In the legal scale the law is clear, and it requires the port to secure the security of persons and merchandise in their own facilities. In fact, the laws on the ports of the state, and several other laws, require the entrance and exit of individuals and vehicles. Similarly, we must take into account the existing competitive limitations, since in the port of Bilbao up to six different security bodies can act, each with its own competence: Port Police, attached to the Harbour Authority; private security, contracted by the port itself; Civil Guard, in the matter of citizen security; National Police, in the matter of aliens, and then we also have Ertzaintza and local police. That is why it is difficult for us to think that what Elkarrekin Podemos requested in his proposal is feasible, since entering from the Basque Government to ask private security companies or security bodies, over which we have no competence, to modify their training plans, or to adapt them, would be at least something difficult or complicated to carry out. Furthermore, we must not forget that both Ertzaintza and local police, including other security forces, such as Civil Protection or sheriffs, receive continuous and up-to-date training on the challenges that society is demanding. This is done through Arkaute and the annual training plan and activity plan, which are being updated annually. To give some examples, in this same year 2018, a total of 84 agents of the Ertzaintza have taken part in the course Anti-intrusion action, verb-corporal communication in conflict situations Ertzaintza, a service for citizenship Then, we also have the situation at the internal level of the port, where we must not forget the functionality and the objective that has a critical infrastructure such as the port and as it can also be an airport or any of the style, and it is no other than the transfer of passengers and goods from one point to another, in conditions of efficiency, economy, speed and also security. That is why the security in the transport of passengers and goods in the harbour enclosure is an inexcusable operational requirement, in addition to an express legal requirement, falling on the harbour authorities themselves their compliance, and also on the bodies and security forces themselves that are present in the port itself. Now, as I have said before, the pillars before us are two, and the second is that which relates to human rights. El objectivo es – and it must remain – to offer decent living conditions to all people, from a perspective of integral and personalized attention to each of them. That is why a number of actions have been taking place for a long time, in which the Basque Government is participating, in addition to other institutions, and I believe that we must give them the right value, because we do not start from a zero situation, where there is no previous work done, but rather the opposite. For months, work has been under way in order to provide a solution to this situation that has been created around the port of Bilbao. To recall some of them, various meetings have been held, both bilateral and institutional and social, in order to share both information and proposals that can be carried out around the port of Bilbao, in which institutions, social actors and other collectives are participating, something in addition to what we deepen in the amendment to the whole presented with the Socialist Group, in which the first of the points speaks about the transversality and the importance it has in this matter. Similarly, an inter-institutional commission was also set up a few months ago, in which the Basque Government, the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia, are represented, various municipalities that are involved – i.e., Abanto-Zierbena and Santurtzi, mainly – also security bodies, CEAR, Red Cross and other collectives. And in them they are working on five basic pillars, which are fundamental in this topic: On the one hand, inter-agency coordination, which reappears and is reiterated once again; also humanitarian assistance, informing and advising all those arriving in Euskadi of the legal options that assist them and also of the options at the social level that they can benefit from; prevention, which is also fundamental, considering the high risk that anyone who enters the port of Bilbao may run; security; and, of course, coexistence with neighbours and neighbours of the environment. Actions such as personalized care, an offer of the social services catalogue of the different municipalities that are involved or the possibilities of shelter so that these people can take steps in their life projects and conform the desired life project are fundamental and it is also that they are being carried out and are being carried out. We see that the government is working with great sensibility and great responsibility to guarantee the rights of all the people who come to the Euka. Euskadi is a responsible people and is also a solidarity people and has always been, and, as such, offers all people equal help and also does so in a committed way, and above all also realistic and responsible. In short, and bearing in mind that the aim of today's non-legislative proposal was to guarantee human rights in the port of Bilbao, from our group, we are in favour of continuing to work on three fundamental pillars, which were the ones that were transferred in the amendment to the totality signed with the Socialist Group: Firstly, we believe that inter-institutional coordination should continue to be encouraged, in order to monitor the port and the different situations that may occur in it, both within and outside it, and in which institutions, collectives, agents, etc. are involved. Secondly, and also in our amendment to the whole, we must work under the principle of responsibility, ensuring the safety of both people and goods and of workers in the port of Bilbao. And finally, and today more important than ever, we must act under the principle of solidarity, putting all the means to guarantee personalized and alternative attention to all people, guaranteeing their human rights and the coverage of their most basic human needs. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u99	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that the first thing I have to say in this speech, talking about human rights in the port of Bilbao, is that I do not know if I am legitimized, if this group is legitimized, to talk about human rights, after the insults we have received this morning, that I will not say by whom, because if it is not able to ask for the word, for allusions, and even the same is given, and intervenes in an extraordinary way. But I'm not, and maybe no one in my group is, right? But, as we are a group chosen by the Basque citizens, who have voted for us and who believe that this group is involved in the defence of human rights, we are going to intervene on this point and talk about this issue. Indeed, and as has been said here, in the vicinity of the port of Bilbao, on land of municipal ownership of the localities of Zierbena and Santurce there are settlements of foreigners who penetrate into it, with the intention of approaching, as police stations, one of the ships that are destined for Great Britain, especially the ferry Bilbao-Portsmouth. Although it is true that there are other nationalities, 95 per cent of these persons have Albanian nationality and are men between the ages of 16 and 35 without the presence of women, the elderly or children. With regard to the problems of social exclusion referred to here – and also mentioned by the spokesman for the Socialist Party – it does not seem that these problems will exist because the objective is not to settle in Spain and in Euskadi, and to achieve social protection, but rather its objective is to spend time until they can board a ship heading towards Britain. It was said here, when this was discussed in a previous plenary session, that inter-agency efforts have been made. Work is being done jointly between the Basque Government, the municipalities, the parliaments, the private operators who manage this issue, and alternatives are being sought, so that living conditions are adequate and for the comprehensive protection of these people and their human rights. They are trying to offer, as I say, through such inter-agency coordination, decent conditions, personal care and, all this, from a perspective of comprehensive care. But this situation is not new; this situation has been taking place since 2014. Since the second quarter of 2014, this irregular incursion of citizens – basically, as I say, Albanians – has been being detected in the port of Bilbao, with the intention of moving to the United Kingdom, without the necessary requirements in force. As a result of this social problem, already in May 2014, a meeting was held between the Harbour Authority of Bilbao, which manages this harbour complex, and different security actors (National Police, Guardia Civil and Ertzaintza), who operate in the port, in order to solve these facts that put in manifest danger – let us not forget – the physical integrity, and even the life, of these people who try to access the port and travel improperly. By carrying out this shared working strategy, a meeting took place in November 2014 between the UK immigration authorities, the Deputy Director of the Brittany shipping company and the aforementioned security actors, where different aspects were discussed. This same issue is addressed in the respective periodic advisory and operational committees, in which the port authority and other actors with different roles in the port participate. It is in these committees that we agree on the measures that are considered appropriate for each of the situations arising from this phenomenon. And it has to be said that two consultative committees have been convened in an extraordinary way. monographs. As has been said here, according to our constitutional legal order, different powers converge in the port. The ports, according to our Constitution, are state competence, and public security is the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, of the Ertzaintza. Therefore, as has been said here – I have also said earlier – there are different actors who interact in the port of Bilbao, performing this daily work, under the different competences they have assigned. We are talking here about the formation of state security forces and bodies. With regard to the State security forces and bodies entrusted with the control of entry and exit from the national territory by the port of Bilbao and the application of the regulations on aliens, these functions are carried out by specialized police officers with extensive experience in the field of aliens, who travel to establish the border post, and when there is an arrival or exit from a ship or when there is a requirement on the part of other security operators. It must be said, in order to be clear, that Albanians do not need a visa to enter Schengen territory; therefore, they are here legally, because they enter as tourists for 90 days, which can be extended by another 90 days. His stay becomes irregular from the moment when it is evident that his purpose is not to be in Euskadi, but rather his purpose is to approach, as a police officer, a ship destined for Britain. That is when the alien measures are implemented, and in the implementation of these alien measures, there have been no complaints or complaints about the actions of the State security forces and bodies; as I said, the officials acting have human rights training, which is provided to all officials of the State security forces and bodies, complemented by specific training in foreign affairs and with proven experience in the development of their work. They are fully qualified to perform the functions assigned to them by law, without prejudice to the place where the facts have occurred to ascertain or find the persons to be protected. In the case of persons in transit, to whom the non-law proposal referred – as I say – the mission of the security forces and bodies, the National Police and the Civil Guard, is to control activities related to irregular migration, as well as to prevent and detect the possible victimization of such persons by networks and mafias operating in this field, subject always to the protocols and instructions that come to develop the procedures established in the legislation and the plans for the protection of victims, plans that already provide for channels of institutional collaboration – as has been said here – and with non-governmental organizations, to ensure adequate assistance to these people. Both the National Police and the Civil Guard have participated in how many forums have been convened, in conjunction with organizations of the third sector such as the Red Cross, CEAR and institutional departments such as Social Action of the Bizkaia Provincial Council or the Council of Social Action of the Town Hall of Santurtzi and, of course, collaborate daily with the Ertzaintza and the local police. All this is not new, it was said here when this issue was discussed in a previous plenary. With regard to human rights training, we have spoken here: both Ertzaintza and local police have human rights training; this is part of the training plans that exist in Arkaute. And with regard to the rest of the state's security forces and bodies, organic law 2/86 also contains this formation, which, of course, implies absolute respect for individual rights. Under this State regulation, the training plans are designed by each of the management centres under the Ministry of the Interior, for members of the security forces and bodies, which incorporate, among their contents, training in the protection of human rights, as well as the consequences that could arise in the criminal or disciplinary field in cases of police officers' non-compliance with these guarantees imposed by the legislation for the protection of these human rights. And within the training provided in this area, there is the knowledge and duty of collaboration with national and international institutions and entities that periodically examine the fulfilment in our country of the protection that the authorities are obliged to give to these people. As far as the training in the harbour is concerned, it must be said that the forces and bodies of security of the State give to its members the course of security in ports, which will also develop in next May its edition number XI. These training activities are supported by the various municipalities in which they take place; in our case, Santurtzi and Zierbena. And it is attended by police, military, as well as various members of the Port Police, Port Authority and State port personnel. Some as speakers; others as students of this course. In addition, three seminars on border surveillance and the fight against illegal immigration are held annually. Among the requirements for access to such seminars is that of having previously passed the training course on human rights and police ethics, and among the subjects taught during it is the International Humanitarian Law Seminar. Therefore, the training requested here exists; the interinstitutional collaboration requested is given, and therefore, in this sense, we will not support his initiative, and we will support the amendment tabled by the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u101	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u102	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. A common place claims that the border prints character, which generates original human types, disrespectful to the rules and sacrosanct authority. If this topic were true, it would explain the figure of Maritxu Anatol. Maritxu went to work at his family's customs agency, with great scandal, as it was considered not to be an activity of beautiful sex. He had dual nationality, Spanish and French, and many desires for adventure and action, which were not satisfied with the paperwork of the office or with smuggling matters, the main activity of the Irun of the time. When the Civil War broke out, his family moved to the other side of Bidasoa. In the summer of 1940, the Germans confiscated the ground floor of their home, and 15 soldiers stayed there. The Resistance offered to collaborate on informational and, in passing, fugitive tasks and she said yes, without thinking twice. His restless temper finally found himself comfortable in clandestine activities. He was doing a little bit: he was spying on the timetable and movements of German patrols, moving the fugitives, supplying the fallen airmen, making appointments, looking for accommodation... "We were a group of adventurers, of determined people." So he retrospectively defined his activity. He passed through the Gestapo police station in Baiona and the Biarritz prison. Masha Comète This is an Irungo image [[has shown some photos]] This is Hendaia, Irun, and this is the beach of Hendaia. In Hedaia many people and Spaniards waited for a better future, standing and waiting. We can also recall the Mussche written by Kirmen Urib today, representing the parents who greet their children at a Portuguese port in the Basque Country, to be greeted by children on their way to Belgium and the United Kingdom. There, at the finish line, they were met by people who were willing to receive them. We can even imagine President Aguirre from one country to another, with his pierced shoes. Not more than 100 years have passed that moment, the near history, and we too had to have been wandering, we also made camps on the beach of Hendaia, we waited for a hand to be thrown out, and we took it up. And this proposal to-day is another attempt to shake hands, to attempt another step in front of a situation that is being laid on our lands. We know it's a very complicated situation, we know there's difficulty in working on it, that there have been attempts to work on it, but today's another chance to try. We're talking about competition, and, rather than treatment, we're willing to shake hands... We think it's time to answer because we can keep looking at it, or because we can look at the problem. And in the middle of the corridor we should be working for those people who want to live in this direction of people who want to live in the corridor, those who travel, the most vital situation, because we're looking aside. His colleague Otero asked for the strategic plan of the port of Bilbo, and in this PowerPoint there is no mention of this fact, and none. A conflictal situation is happening right there, and it's not even mentioned. But if we looked at the value section PowerPoint in that very place, he mentions "compromiso con las personas y responsabilud social." I read them in Spanish, because we received the documentation only in Spanish; A commitment to people and social intercourse. It's a proposal which Mrs. Guanche introduced to these two. Let's make an experiment in this sense, because we can continue as we have done, and perhaps it's not the best thing to say that we know there are so many things in it, but in another direction they're making steps, because the "lots wall" has been built in the Bilbo harbour because the camps of people in it have been destroyed. And the PNV also called, through an amendment to the notorious Mordaza Law, for the expulsion of foreigners who risk basic facilities such as ports to be included. Is that where we want to travel and look? Are those the steps we want to take? Either we feed xenophobic and alarmist discourses, or we try to look for measures that reflect the situation that is taking place in the port of Bilbao. Again, this is a proposal, an attempt, another grain of sand; we will try it once and a thousand times; we will continue to work to promote spaces where respect for people, human rights and international solidarity prevail. With another proposal, we will tend to abstain from it, simply because it mentions the continuation of the work it's doing. We believe that situations in the state of emergency require any amount of emergency. And I just want to end by mentioning those people who, faced with these situations, have decided to take the step, as Maritxu Anatol did in his time, who was imprisoned. Those people who are being jailed, who are pending trial, such as Open Arms and Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak platform. You are the reference and you are the hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing on the answers, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u104	The priority of the Ertzaintza and the local police is the suppression of crimes, the control of hygiene... The priority of the Civil Guard and the National Police is the detention of persons in an irregular situation. That of the social actors, humanitarian assistance. But what happens when at some point it happens, because it will happen, an inevitable incident that puts this back in the front row? If we look at this in a partial way, it will be difficult to find comprehensive solutions. Mrs. Romero, don't be mad. I have not questioned his personal commitment; everyone is where he is. What I did question is that you look somewhere else, because I'm talking about one thing, or our group is talking about one thing – now it answers me, there's no problem, and then we can keep talking what we want – because I know that your commitment to human rights is not questionable. And I'm not talking about that; I've never questioned the compromise. What I've questioned is that you talk about one thing and you talk about another. And it's okay, if we're going to abstain from the proposal of the parties that support the government, because it's not a proposal that we have nothing against, but it's not what we came to address today. I do not question your commitment, but you cannot deny me either that many of the agents operating in these circumstances do not have specific training. This is a new issue and, therefore, new solutions will have to be sought. This is, as Mrs Etxebarrieta said, a granite of sand; it does not intend to build a mountain from here alone. Integral solutions, welcome, and you know that we are the first to reach out where it is needed. Let us talk about the human rights plan, let us talk about the artificial division that this Government makes between migrant and refugee people; let us talk about why to make different proposals, because if we present it all together, because we present it a lot, and if we present it separately, because it is separate. So, well, what we're going to keep doing is what we all consider best. I have no doubt that you too, and I have no doubt that we will walk together. Mr Alvarez, thank you very much for the explanations. As you may have seen, I'm kind of waiting and asking constantly. There's a lot of information you've given that I already knew. Regarding the courses he has mentioned, yes name so, to show a button, 84 agents in one of the courses he has mentioned, 140 in another, more than 1,000 in anti-jihadist performances... There are also the political wills. There is, of course, for more than a year a situation and the solutions that seem to be put on the table. Since I am not in the Government, I may lack information, perhaps we will have to ask for it, perhaps we will have to bring the intergroup together more. Of course, what seems to be constantly on the table are meetings, meetings that, according to the response, are for information, this Government's impressive ability to sell headlines. The compromise is not called into question; it is called into question what they are actually doing. And from our point of view, what they are doing today is not to strengthen and give security to those who are working in situations that need not be able to deal with, because they need not have tools to do so. Mrs. Llanos, talk about settlements, talk about men entering the port, Albanians, foreigners... Let us not take away the condition of human beings; let us talk about people, because that also helps us to humanize reality. It's not a new situation, of course not. Since 2014 and long before; cops have been and will continue to be. That is why we demand legal and secure channels, and in that your party and the Spanish state government have much to say. Mrs. Llanos, specialized police, yes, but it is a sixth part of the bodies or groups of people, who are not security bodies, who intervene in all this. Okay? It's a sixth part. So it doesn't solve it. We insist: in the meantime What's the problem? Have you really asked the people who are doing this job? Have you been asked if you feel safe? If you consider that you have enough tools? Or is this the formation, like the one that's supposed to have the firemen, that like Ina Robles, they're dumping bombs at the port of Bilbao? There's a lot to do. The first thing is that this does not disappear from the agenda. If with that, today we have achieved even that granite, I am satisfied. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u106	For the personal and collective commitment of the group in which I am, that of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that of both of them is the one I have expressed here and I have given my opinion, on behalf of the Socialist Party to which I represent, until they throw me out – well, I don't think they throw me out, but let's go – [[Barres]] - No, no, no, Of course, I continue to do so with the commitment to human rights and the commitment he believes the Basque Government has, and I have said that the parties in this House, because we have shared it in this respect. We shared it at that very meeting. Therefore, no doubt about it, no doubt about the lessons. It's just that it's very easy to give lessons in this. I have never intended to give lessons, because I understand that in the exercise of the government that the Socialist Party has done, it has been able to make many mistakes, or that it has also been made by the Basque Government. Now that we can help from collaboration, because we know all the institutions that have competence, to improve it. Because we know, because Mrs Monica Hernando informed us that they were meeting all the needs that depended on the competences of the Basque Government and the outside institutions, to the extent possible, coordinating them. By coordinating and assisting them. That they were offering accommodation, that they were offering food, that they were offering help. That they were even asked by the collaborative body, that they know that there is a collaborative body; that they are working together. Is everything going to be all right? Of course not. What has been done with the proposals of the groups, the ones we have made in the House in the coexistence plan, in those meetings? Also. That there should be more intergroup meetings? Yeah, when we can all attend. When we can all attend, when they're called and we can all attend, right? Then we will do them and you will be able to come, as Mrs Hernando has offered to inform us on more than one occasion. I therefore believe that the question of making human rights policy a bold weapon in front of each other in this Parliament, with me, will not find it. They won't find him with me; they won't find him. Because we are also talking about comprehensive proposals. This is not an integral proposal. It's a partial proposal. Positive? Yeah, it's positive. Of course there must be more training. Of course, perhaps the formation of the Civil Guard is better or worse; I don't know, I don't know. Ertzaintza's is the one I've been told. Maybe they haven't told me as well as Mr. Alvarez, but they've told me. What's good or bad? They'll make it better. But you and I know they're partial solutions. We have shared that solutions are integral. Three of the principles that Mr Alvarez has mentioned and that you share, because you know so much better than I do – because you are dedicated to that and have a better professional knowledge – three of the principles of humanity, legality, solidarity... and that of responsibility. And that's what you're trying to do and that you're doing a lot better than in the rest of the state in many places. Therefore, what I am saying is that we must have that principle of responsibility, not only in the actions of the public authorities, but also of ourselves, when we speak and pronounce on a matter. Because there will be issues where we can get our heads together; but, in this country, I believe that it is already time for us, in the area of human rights, to stop throwing them at each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Guanche, I don't think it's looking elsewhere to commit to offering personalized attention to all people; nor do I think it's the basic social services that are being offered. Nor should the training of the Ertzaintza be adapted to the challenges that society is calling for in the advancement of this situation, and I am also sure that the Department of Security will take it into account when conducting training courses for Ertzaintza, local police, civil protection bodies, etc. I urge you; I think we have to work on the three points that we have moved in our amendment to the whole: institutional coordination, the principle of responsibility and the principle of solidarity. Three fundamental points. In addition, I remind you that a very similar proposal has been transferred by your group to the Congress of Deputies, where you may – and you may comment on it in your day – make more sense for the full competition of ports and also because there you have the security competence in the matter of Civil Guard, National Police, etc. and, therefore, little more... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u110	Thank you again, Madam President. And briefly, because I believe that almost everything is said, and moreover this matter has already been addressed – with another different perspective, but it has been addressed – in an earlier plenary. The truth is... they say we don't pronounce on their initiative, and what's wrong? If I do not tell you that there is nothing wrong with your initiative, what I am saying is that many of the issues you are asking are already being done. It is that, look, you in this House sometimes sin totally and absolutely of adanism, because it seems that before you there was nothing, and that if you do not propose something, nothing has been done, and nothing is done and nothing is done and it is already being done. Better, worse, it can probably be completed, but things are done; things are done. And look, I am not going to doubt, under any circumstances, either Mrs Romero's, Mr Alvarez's, or his involvement in the defence of human rights, but I also say one thing: they do not have the monopoly, eh. It is that there are certain political forces that seem to have the monopoly in the defense of human rights, and it is not, and it is not so... What happens is that sometimes there are government responsibilities, that you don't have them, and the laws have to comply with them. When you don't like them, you can change them, but the laws have to be enforced. You have said that the National Police, and the Civil Guard, their goal is the arrest of people; no, don't be mistaken. Its objective is law enforcement. Its purpose is to comply with the law, and what happens is that those who violate the law are sometimes detained. It's different. It's different. And I'll tell you one thing. I of course speak of human beings, but what I have said to you, what I have done, when I have referred to who are basically the people who are in that harbour enclosure, is contextualizing the situation. Of course they're human beings, of course, but I'm telling you what they are. And they are not refugees, they are not even migrants; they are people in transit, because their aim is not to stay in Euskadi, regardless of whether it is true that the Basque authorities have to give a response in coordination with the rest of the Spanish authorities, so that in the period of time they are here they have a respect, a dignified life, worthy conditions, and of course, give them a comprehensive solution, but their objective is not to stay in Euskadi. I'll give you an example. He offered one of these people a place in a hostel, and he wouldn't go. Why? Because it was very far from the port of Bilbao. And as his goal is to find the situation to access the boat as a puddle, he did not want to get away from the port of Bilbao, and that must also be taken into account. And that's not denying the category of human being to anyone; that's contextualizing the situation, and saying what it is before us and what answers we have to give, that are probably better, but that things are being done, that things are being done, that there are formative plans, not only – as you said – of the state security forces and bodies, also of the Ertzaintza and the local police. And I have told you that the rest of the authorities involved in the security and protection of these people are also trained through the state security forces and bodies. And you have said that one day there will be a misfortune; of course, let us hope that there will be none, but precisely many of the issues that are being carried out is to avoid that, to avoid that we have to see a misfortune of a person assaulting a ship and that it has a lucid consequence, which no one wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u111	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u112	Very short. Sand grain, that is, partial; yes, we know it and we have not denied it. We know that this is not a comprehensive proposal; there are other proposals on the table, which we are actually actively working on and will continue to work on. But well, I suppose – I am not going to speak on behalf of Mrs Guanche – the need to bring in a very special and very specific case study, precisely because it is not being said that this type of training is not being carried out and that this type of training does not exist, but that today a very special situation is taking place that needs specific training around it. Nothing more and nothing less! We have been speaking incessantly of motives, and I would like to repeat that we should cease to use those words of competition in the eyes of these cases. We should have more to do with the will. And I don't say there's no will to turn the situation around and place different mechanism on the table. But because these discourses and legality are placed in the centre, and these bonds which the legality often imposes upon us, I think it necessary, in the course of this discourse, to place men and security in the centre of the welfare, and to place them in the centre. And I'd like to finish Mrs. Guanche's question: What's the problem then? If we agree that we must determine these forms, we must confine ourselves to these particular circumstances, for we are left with the misery of not obtaining them from you and ours. Still, I think the team is still working there. It is plain that there is a will to follow the steps of the different persons who have taken part here, and that there are several propositions, and that we shall continue to propose different propositions. And in this sense it is that the will and the legality of the human rights spring up; in the centre of the will to follow the course of a society which will place them in the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 26; the contrary, 44; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u114	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the total amendment which Euzic patriots and Sociialists have proposed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 44; the contrary, 0; the whites, 0; the abstainments, 26th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u115	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The sixth point in the theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Parlamentarian Group, about 2030th and the sustainable Euscan Development Strategy to apply 2030 action plans. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, representing the American Basque Group, has the word in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u116	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. On September 25, 2015, it was adopted at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u118	... the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. This means moving forward and renewing the commitment made by the international community in the year 2000, when the Millennium Declaration was signed, with the eight Millennium Goals and, as a fundamental commitment, combating poverty in its different dimensions. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and their 169 goals form part of the 2030 Agenda. They are of a cross-cutting nature and cover the economic, social and environmental spheres. A plan of action for people, the planet and prosperity, and they also seek to strengthen universal peace and access to justice. Managing the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals requires working in partnerships. You just need to take a look at the 17 goals to understand that no government, institution, company or organization can be effective if you work alone. Cross-cutting and long-term partnerships between Governments, the private sector and civil society are needed. In short, coordinate public policies with private strategies, cooperate in the search for innovative solutions to common problems and reach consensus among all actors on the priorities, funding and capacities needed for each target and indicator. In this we are, and trying to establish tools to disseminate, to involve society in general, these commitments through measures in our autonomous community to implement these objectives. Objectives that can be structured into three groups: those that focus on combating poverty in all its forms; those related to environmental commitments; and those that are related to good governance and the promotion of peaceful coexistence. Some key points that mark the 2030 Agenda can be highlighted: sustainable human development must be equal for all people, regardless of where they live. Sustainable development needs to be addressed from a social, economic and environmental perspective, setting concrete goals and targets. It is important to prioritize measures to eradicate any kind of inequality within and between countries, with emphasis on the principles of equality and non-discrimination. These Sustainable Development Goals are not legally binding, but are considered universally applicable, and Spain has undertaken, together with the international community, to adopt these goals as its own and to establish a framework for commitment, management, coordination, dissemination and accountability. As early as July this year, Spain will voluntarily submit a self-assessment report on the work being done. This autonomous community will also contribute to this report those actions that have been carried out so far. This report, as I say, will be presented to the United Nations High-level Political Forum. The Congress of Deputies and, in particular, the International Cooperation for the Development of Congress Commission are the protagonists in managing the implementation of the 2030 Agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals. And in November 2017, all spokesmen of the political groups of Congress sign a non-legislative proposal, in which they set an orientation to the government's policy in the definition of the national strategy for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, where they set out the general lines, the impulse and the initial orientation of the process and the definition of the Spanish strategy for the implementation of this 2030 Agenda, and where they place duties on us, they place duties on us all. And also in territorial coordination we are told that, through existing cooperation mechanisms, we must promote the elaboration by the autonomous communities, within the framework of their competences, of their own strategies aimed at the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. It should be properly coordinated with the Inter-Territorial Commission for Development Cooperation to promote concerted actions aimed at increasing efficiency and impact, reducing fragmentation and administrative costs, and providing policies and management for decentralized cooperation with greater coherence. This basic requirement in a decentralized state is urgently needed as soon as possible. This is what our colleagues, also friends, of the Congress of Deputies, spokespersons of our groups tell us. Nor, in this regard, can we forget the proper integration with the competences of the local authorities, by definition the ones closest to the citizenry, through the proper coordination of these in the State Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said in 2012 that our fight for sustainability will be won or lost in cities. And here we are: how we organize ourselves to be proactive, effective, in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. From our group we presented an initiative, with a series of measures that we believe could be implemented in this autonomous community. Both the Basque Nationalist Group and Basque Socialists and Elkarrekin We have made amendments. All the amendments were in the same direction, in order to help establish mechanisms for the implementation of these actions in our autonomous community. We made a... well, I made a compromise amendment proposal, which is what I'm going to refer to. And that is what we are committed to in this House: The Basque Parliament, we say, "calls on the Basque Government, together with the other institutions involved, to present within one year the Basque Strategy for Sustainable Development 2020-2030 for the Basque Country, which integrates the objectives and goals of the International Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030, with a cross-cutting approach to all public policies and all Basque institutions". We also say, in point two, that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the other institutions involved, to draw up a report on their respective public policies, in contrast to the 2030 Agenda, and to present within six months a document reflecting the degree of compliance with each objective". What we have come to say on other occasions: a diagnosis of reality contrasted with what the 2030 Agenda commits or demands. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to identify the body or body responsible for coordinating local, outlying, autonomous, national and high-level policies for the 2030 Agenda, with the aim of achieving greater effectiveness in the implementation of the objectives and targets derived from it." The Government of Spain has also appointed a head. This is good, because a reference is needed to lead this work. In point four we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the other institutions involved, to actively cooperate in the preparation of evaluation and follow-up reports, as well as their presentation at the High-level Political Forum held every year in July in New York". In the fifth point, we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the other institutions involved, to work with each other and with the social fabric in the dissemination, awareness and implementation of the 2030 Agenda". This agenda is an agenda that will be effective to the extent that it is integrated into society and that we are all proactive in its implementation. That's going to be the..., there's going to focus the success of the policies or objectives that are within this agenda. Also in point 6 we urge the Basque Government, together with the other institutions involved, and on the basis of the evaluation and monitoring reports, to adapt its budgetary structures to the precise needs to achieve the objectives and targets of the 2030 Agenda, increasing those items that are necessary in the coming years". And in point seven, we urge... the Basque Parliament commits itself "to create an intergroup for the follow-up to the 2030 Agenda, in order to have an agile and interdisciplinary discussion forum that allows parliamentary participation in the relevant forums". In summary, what we have said in this compromise amendment is that we are committed to doing so, that we are going to disclose it and that we are going to evaluate it. And we consider that if we all work in this line, the result of this autonomous community can be very positive for the rest of Spain and the community. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u120	"Mr. Future, we're running out of world. "The violent kick him as if he were a ball; the warlords play with him, as if it were a hand grenade, and the voracious express it, as if it were a lemon. "At this stage, I fear, sooner than later, the world could be nothing more than a dead stone spinning in space, without land, without water, without air and without soul. That's what this is about, Mr. Future. "I ask you, we ask you not to be evicted; to be, to be, we need you to remain, you to remain, you to help us defend your house, which is the house of time." I think there is no better summary than Galeano's words to explain what the challenge of the 2030 Agenda SDGs is: the challenge of the future, of the future of the planet and of people. We are faced with an agenda, which has already been explained, which is born after the review of the Millennium Development Goals, which were generally a failure. An agenda that is born in a mixed way. So, he's continued with those goals, and a bet –declarative at least, and I want to keep this – for the transformation. But as almost always with these kinds of agreements and paraphrasing Pepe, Pepe Mujica, we must salute the effort made, but not without pointing out that the cause of the problem is not the environmental crisis or the crisis of poverty, but that it is the model of civilization that we have mounted. That is, if there are no root changes, there are no effective solutions for transformation. And this is the Basque Country Agenda. The ends of support, even if it was amigration, were able to change the direction of Eucomjon's pretty things. You have given up your ability, the Government has taken possession of the limits of the handheld, and has rejected its powers. The document is indeed beautiful, but it is obvious that the substance is lacking. Last week we attended the presentation of the Basque Agenda 2030 and when we looked at this document, we experienced a kind of déjà vu It is true, and I have to recognize it, that it is a rich, seasoning, well presented refrain; but, ultimately and ultimately, a refrain. Of course there is progress and of course the government programme, I am sure it will lead to progress on some of the goals of the 2030 Agenda. But the most inclusive, more transformative part of Agenda 2030 is given up. I believe that in that presentation, too, something was very clear, and I believe that the most sincere words were from the representative of the Vizcaine employer. He said it was a document, the 2030 Agenda and adaptation, the Basque Country 2030, an agenda for makeup, for profiling – profile And if we renounce, therefore, in those words so sincere on the part of the employer, the transformative part of the 2030 Agenda, the truth is that we will remain with some changes, with sheet and paint, but with the same engine in charge, because without questioning, without making the structural changes that are so necessary to end inequalities, without questioning the power relations, we will not make structural changes. And in the document, as I said, it is now impossible in 10 minutes to comment on the full agenda, but I would like to mention one of the objectives being set, the goals being set, the Government. In Goal 1 of ending poverty, Goal 2 speaks of "ensure the proper use of social assistance to reach the people who need it most, promoting collaboration between institutions and data interconnection". I wonder if the government could "guarantee the subjective right to the income guarantee through an inclusive and guaranteeing reform of the income guarantee". I think you could, but it hasn't been done. And in addition, to continue calling for social benefits that are recognized by law, I believe that at least it is questionable. And more so if we still compare it with objective 16, on transparency, good governance... In the fight against corruption, the indicator we see in the Basque Agenda is the opinion on the democratic functioning of the country, that is what is marked in the Basque Agenda 2030; that is, controls for citizens who need social benefits and surveys for situations of corruption. I think it's two measuring rods that we can't tolerate. Not to compare, for example, what it says about energy poverty; beyond social emergency aid, the Basque Government continues to fail to fulfil a parliamentary mandate on the vulnerable consumer indicator. It seems that it has been lost by analyzing the analysis of the analysis, such as the answer given to me by the Housing Advisor. The term of office is still not fulfilled a year later. Or the various references to the subject of equality. This is a matter in which, as has already been said by my colleagues, the Government is still carrying an automatic pilot. With a Basque, pluralist feminist movement, which has advanced the institutions decisively and which demands a feminist agenda of 2018 and not of the 1990s. And this agenda, frankly, in my opinion, does not respond to those demands and needs. Although the lack of transformation of the agenda is not only demonstrated at home, it is also demonstrated in what we do outside. Because we are talking about defending human rights, promoting conflict resolution in alternative ways and cooperation for development – so far textual words on the agenda. But I believe that we stand by – and we are talking, and I say this again, about issuing a political declaration, of a government statement – while the port of Bilbao is used for the sale of weapons to countries that violate human rights, I believe that it is no alternative method to help resolve conflicts and does not involve any development cooperation. I insist: a statement from the Government, as there are governments very close to ours that have done so. Or talk about the policy coherence framework for development as a tool for planning complementary to the internationalization strategy, which was presented in recent weeks. I don't think it's consistent at all. The internationalisation plan has already been sufficiently analysed and criticized by the social side, by the NGO Coordinator and by so many people who say – and we say some and some also – that it is a plan that does not take into account the economic interests of Basque companies, and that obviously – and that is what the Coordinator's own report says – and even contradicts sustainable development, one of the fundamental elements of the 2030 Agenda. When we read the equipment, we saw with astonishment that it was the project of the Populacian Party, because it presented itself to the State Government party, and that in the State there have hitherto been but little efforts to make in the House; and in the last week some new enterprises have been made, but still very little. But, well, we welcome the initiative, and we file our corrections. Some have been taken into account, and we will protect them-that is to say, for the evaluation of the strategy of patient development, and for the report of the promotion of the agenda, but other proposals have remained outside, and that is why we have but little initiative left. In the Quedo todo lo beautivo, porjemplo, a la acción exterior del Gobierno Vasco y marco de coherencia de pollicas porjemplo. Besides, it is true, at the seventh point, that we find this legislature interesting to form a continuous group of people to play this diary; yet we believe that the work of this association must be effective, with the share of social agents, with definite measures, of control and so on. Porque intergrupos sin particiciaón, como decía el señor Egibar, son paispinas. In the group, in that sense, we'll be involved. The crew and the e-mails are loud-sounding. we must choose between playing the same thing or playing the wager for the sake of modification. If we bet on transformation, I leave our engagement here on the table, and as he wrote from Ares: Let our action be the daughter of our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u121	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u122	Yes, thank you, President. We will end this plenary with a broad agreement on the agenda that should focus our efforts. The agenda for sustainable development, equality, the empowerment of women in all spheres of life, the eradication of poverty and exclusion, the generation of opportunities for all citizens, and the environmental agenda. An agenda which is part of the socialist project, which was incorporated into the governance agreement and which is now being ratified by Parliament: that is why it has been easy to reach the agreement. In September 2015, more than 150 countries, through their heads of State and Government, adopted the 2030 Agenda at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit in New York. It includes 19 Sustainable Development Goals, agreed by the United Nations by 2030, which are a real global challenge for achieving sustainable development and poverty reduction in all its forms. The percentage of people with inadequate nutrition and the net primary school enrolment rate in developing regions of the world. Eradicating poverty is the basis of sustainable development, affecting a wide range of areas, such as income, health, discrimination, social exclusion and lack of access to basic services, as well as adequate protection systems, which help to prevent and reduce poverty and inequality at different stages of life. Poverty cannot be eradicated and prosperity promoted without reaching the most vulnerable groups. Nor does it forget the area of environmental commitments and, in this, it addresses the degradation of the oceans that poses a threat to the fight for the eradication of poverty. The integration of environmental issues and climate change, and the adoption of the concept of sustainable development as a focal point for the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, means the integration of the poverty reduction agendas in the Millennium Development Goals with the environmental agenda resulting from the Rio Summit. It covers, in another group, the objectives of good governance and the promotion of peaceful coexistence, since sustainable development depends on defending human rights and ensuring peace and security. She also stressed the importance of gender equality issues within the new agenda, moving beyond the Millennium Development Goals to the economic and political empowerment of women and expanding with the elimination of gender-based violence and the eradication of practices such as child or forced marriage. Gender inequality is still deeply rooted, as we see in the slow progress in the representation of women in politics, and we also see it in gender-based violence. More categorical progress is needed in areas such as sustainable energy, sustainable infrastructure, among others. Moreover, progress has been uneven, not only in the different regions, but also between women and men, also according to the age of the people, their wealth and the place where they live. But in order to achieve its objectives, it is crucial that this universal agenda be implemented by all countries and their different governments, and within the report prepared in 2017 on the Sustainable Development Goals, that is, in the second year of implementation of the 2030 European Agenda, it is stressed that the pace of progress in many areas included within it is slower than necessary to achieve those objectives by 2030. We have to set ourselves goals, without wasting time, if we want to meet all of them, and it must be the fastest and most inclusive progress. The need for reliable, accessible and disaggregated data to measure this progress is also extremely important. The lack of rigorous evidence of disaggregated and comprehensive data has hampered the ability of different Governments and international communities to document, more accurately, discrimination against different groups, which may affect the planning and budgeting of necessary services and the development of the necessary standards to achieve them. That is why I believe that the compromise amendment that we have agreed on by the Basque Nationalist groups, my group, the Basque Socialists, and the People's Group is of great importance in moving along the right lines in order to achieve the objectives set out in the 2030 Agenda and in the sustainable development strategy, by contributing our efforts and our sand granite, from the institutions of our Autonomous Community. And within this compromise amendment, reference is made to Parliament's urging the Basque Government, within one year, to develop this Basque sustainable development strategy 2020-2030 for the Basque Country, where the objectives and targets to be achieved within it in a cross-cutting way, for all public policies and all Basque institutions will be collected. Secondly, both the Basque Government and other institutions are urged to prepare a report in six months, a document which sets out the degree to which each of these objectives are met. And also define which body or body will have to coordinate those local, out-of-town, autonomous, national and high-level policies for the 2030 Agenda. On the other hand, the Basque Government and other institutions are also urged to cooperate in the preparation of such reports and follow-up evaluations, as well as in their presentation within the High-level Political Forum held in July in New York. And then also to collaborate in the dissemination, awareness and involvement of the 2030 Agenda and, on the basis of the reports and the evaluation of the follow-up, to adapt the budgetary structures in order to achieve these objectives. And it is also important point 7, which refers, as has already been mentioned, to the creation of an intergroup for the follow-up of this European Agenda. We will therefore vote in favour of the compromise amendment signed by the three groups (the Basque Nationalists, Socialists and the People's Group). And well, I understand, Mr Martínez, that on the part of the Elkarrekin Group we can only want to vote on certain points, but I do not understand what problem they may have in voting on other points that are reflected in this compromise amendment, in which what is being asked are such important issues as determining which body will be responsible for all this coordination, or in which there is also a need to emphasize this dissemination, awareness and implementation of the 2030 Agenda, or it also refers to the need to adapt budgets in order to achieve those objectives. I do not understand what problems these points may have so that they cannot be voted on by your group, because I believe they are complementary to everything that is being asked for and make it much easier to achieve these objectives. And without further ado, then, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u123	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u124	Yes, ma'am. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. "The Charter of the United Nations begins with the famous phrase 'We the peoples'. Today we are 'we the peoples' who are taking the road to 2030. On our journey, governments, as well as parliaments, the United Nations system and other international institutions – local authorities, indigenous peoples, civil society, businesses, the private sector, the scientific and academic community and the entire population – will accompany us. Millions of people have already committed themselves to this agenda. It is an agenda of the people, for the people and for the people, and that is precisely why we believe it has the guaranteed success." Thus reads paragraph 52 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is also called "Transform our world". I will go back to 1987, when the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development, then chaired by Gro Harlem Brundtland, approved and published the report Our Common Future, popularly known as the Brundtland report This report coined the definition of sustainability as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. This report formed the basis for the discussions that led to the development of the idea of sustainable development throughout the world. I am not going to quote everything, just some point reference: in 1992 the Earth Summit; the Rio 92 conference, with its Rio Declaration on Environment and Development; in 1994 the Charter of Aalborg –Aalborg, a small city in Denmark – where the models of urban agendas 21 were established – by the way, I want to share with you that Vitoria-Gasteiz, one of our cities, was the first city of the State to sign the Charter of Aalborg in 1995, being Mayor José Angel Cuerda–; in 2000, as has also been mentioned here, the Millennium Development Goals. But, as this whole frame of reference was being developed at the international level, Euskadi was taking firm steps towards the idea of sustainability and also, without being exhaustive, I will cite just a few examples: In 2001, the Lehendakari Ibarretxe adopted the commitment to the sustainability of the Basque Country; in 2002, the Governing Council adopted the Basque Sustainable Development Strategy 2002-2020, which was still in force; it adopted it in June 2002, coinciding with World Environment Day and, in addition, it was in the process of developing the General Environment Act of 98. Also, at the same time, the Environment Framework Programme 2002-2006 was adopted, and successively and at the corresponding time, the Basque Government has been approving all the necessary framework programmes every four years, up to the current WFP, known as WFP 2020. It also approved the Sustainability Education Agenda 21 Programme, with 70% of compulsory schools in Euskadi included in this sustainability education programme, with more than 220,000 students in Euskadi working on these programmes. 20% of these schools, which are in these sustainability programmes, certified as sustainable schools and thus recognized by UNESCO. For this Euskadi School Agenda 21 program, we were recognized in 2014 in Japan by UNESCO, in the city of Nagoya, as one of the best 25 practices of the decade worldwide. And how to forget the Udalsarea Programme, also recognized as good practice for locating the agenda; I said that Gasteiz was the first municipality to sign the Aalborg Charter in the year 95; but, from there, there has been a lot of travel in Euskadi also through Udalsarea, under the coordination of the Basque Government, with the Secretariat of the Basque Government. 183 municipalities working for sustainability in their agendas 21; the Department of Health, the outlaws, the EVE, the Department of Environment, URA, Ihobe; a system of evaluation of local sustainability policies, with an evaluation and measurement system, known as TAC-21. And with this bag, we come to a new frame, which I call a second wave of sustainability: As has already been said here, in 2015 we have a key year, not only for the SDG 2030 Agenda, but also for the Paris Climate Change Agreement, which is later also included in the SDG Agenda. But in addition, in 2016, we have the Agenda Urbana de Quito, which, as Mrs López de Ocariz has rightly said, we talk about a world of cities, a planet of cities... I believe that the three elements (the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement and the Quito Urban Agenda) must be read together. In all of them, Euskadi was present in the definition of this new framework. Euskadi was present through the networks in which he works, the international networks in which he works. And when I say Euskadi, I mean not just the government and the institutions – which, of course, led this process – but civil society, universities, companies... And that is the greatest value I find in the sustainability network that we have been able to create among all of us in Euskadi. Nor do I want to bore you with quoting here all those who collaborate, but I cannot forget the outlaws, so many municipalities, Eudel, Udalsarea again, large and small municipalities, those of the capitals, Legazpi, Amurrio, Durango..., UNESCO Etxea, UNICEF, Oxfam, our universities... I want to acknowledge here the work of so many people in Euskadi, fighting for sustainability for many decades. And Euskadi continues to make progress; it continues to make progress and from the adoption of that new framework, which I call it, we have more approvals, we have approved the framework of policy coherence for development, on April 5, 2016, by the Governing Council; we have the new education strategy for social transformation, Abian, in 2017. In 2016, the 8th European Conference of Cities and Peoples for Sustainability, which was also held in Euskadi. With all this, I want to tell you that Euskadi has been and is an example and reference in sustainability in the world. Last week, the president introduced us to 2030 Agenda Basque Country, and I'll take a few words from him that reflect three ideas well: "It is one of the distinguishing characteristics of this 2030 Agenda that she is engaged in the land dimensions and must adapt to the local scale. From the first stage of its definition, both the organization of the United Nations and the European Committee have given a great deal of importance to the most closely allied areas of the country. "The second idea: The objectives of sustainable development do not tell us what we should do, but define a context to help our public policies to improve and establish the merits of one's own country qualities. "And the third idea: the object of all this is to unite forces, and to make our contribution to the global challenge of human endurance. And to face this challenge, we must answer with the spirit of 'auzolan'. Hence, we see that the government is still taking steps; it has not begun, it has not begun, it has continued to take steps, it is projecting 2030th Agenda, but it is not a small challenge, it is a very great challenge. The United Nations tell us: the world is transforming challenge, transforming elmundo. That's why we saw something very important about our medium today, because in his spirit... I will not repeat the ethanthema because it has been said, but it is in its spirit to associate with all institutions, and of course with society, with university, and with all sorts of things, with corporations, and all that comes to us. There's no one left to face this challenge. And of course we also saw that the Parliament itself had a very important share in this new administration. Hence the proposition of the intergroup, the proposition which will be accepted. And I repeat: The challenge before us is useless: we have to transform the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. A group without any correction, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u126	Thank you. Good afternoon again. Ez dakit Gianni Rodari-ren Grammar of Fantasy Grammar of Fantasy Fancy binomial He describes it as follows: "A story can only be born out of a fantastic binomial. Horse-dog "The image assists indifferent to the evocation of the two quadrupeds. It's a third-class arrangement, which promises nothing exciting. It takes a certain distance between the two words, that one is sufficiently strange to the other and its discreetly unusual union, for the imagination to move, seeking a kinship, a fantastic situation in which the two strange elements can coexist." That has happened to us with the concepts of People's Party and Sustainable Development Goals. They seemed so strange to each other, so disparate, that we had to blow up our imagination; because, in reality, many of the policies that are being implemented from the Rajoy government go in the totally opposite direction. Its goals are unsustainable development. And here we want to talk about sustainable lives, lives worth living. Rodari continues: "History at this point is only raw material. Working it up to the finished product would be the work of the writer." So let us be the writers. Let's do Rodari's fantastic job here. And it is to be thanked that, even if we were surprised, it is the People's Party that brings this initiative to the House. Rodari says nonsense must remain as such. This is a technique that children get to master easily and with no little fun. "The well-understood exercise is of great importance, not forgetting the joy it gives us. "In our schools," he says, "and I incorporate him into our parliaments," laughs too little." For this I propose to you: that with the pleasure that creation gives, the work of fantasy, we laugh, enjoy, but that we put ourselves to work, in a serious but happy way. Because the happiness that provides knowing that something can be done, that things can be changed, for the happiness that we have as our goal for all the people who inhabit this planet. It has already been shown that this is a calendar of the minimum, which is highly valuable, but which is indispensable to the exercise of the several governments and institutions of the world. It is a proposal to make our way, but it is for us to decide what steps we are going to take. With the progress of these objects, we are perfectly conformable to the non-commanciola. But it is in the real way and in terms of specific politics: With decisions, with laws... they must be set to work in order that it may be performed. Otherwise, as with the objectives of the Mil Year, they are liable to remain in an empty declaration of good intentions. We confess, too, that from the foregoing ends there have been several absent-minded considerations, and that there are others who have been mentioned association and interaction. You can't move on one day, leaving the others behind. access to energy, differences in rent, worthy labor, citying and industrialization, climate change. But all these targets and orientations must be politically interpreted. And we have to identify the obstacles that the present situation can produce, and create mechanism for changing such obstacles. We can't go on with the same politics. Several examinations have shown that, if we proceed with the present pretty ones, we will not complete the targets marked by 2030. None. In most of the goals, we must triple or double the rhythm, and often insist on taking the contrary direction of the roads we have hitherto made. We put the Paradigma change on the table, or we'll continue 2030. But again we say: These aims may be suitable contrivances for environmental, economy, and the permanent development of society. We're ready to work in the direction of a crowd that won't leave anyone behind. Hence, from points supported by the medium agreement, it is the only one that we are to protect, the end, which seems to us to be a very good idea of creating a collective union in the legislature, to follow the beauties of government, to study the program already presented, to perform the unions which have to be created with so many agents. We shall abstain from other points, because they are already made, or are on the way to do, because it is time to continue writing. There are also a couple of ideas we want to mark on in this work that we have to do, which may be important to us. It is clear that if we go deeper into certain nices, and sometimes plan a transfer in the direction, there will be bumps between certain now-running furrows and the new ones. Hence this group will be important, because we shall have to examine the initiations which we encourage from it, and to make sure that the policies which we propose from the legislature are also in the direction of the tolerable development. And when they meet with old politics, some measures must be taken over them. It is very important to make impact assessments in key areas and to have tools to resolve conflicts between different policies, when there are contradictions between them regarding respect for human rights or sustainable development, both at home and in third countries: arms sales, tax havens, environmental degradation, trade... I have drawn this idea from the synthesis document of the third sector of the Spanish State, to push 2030 Agenda on April 9, and I believe the idea is really important. In his time, our teams and the Podemos proposed that the evaluation of the international police should go exactly the direction of the public centre, and, having been repeated several times, we see the need of reviewing it again. We could get into so many other things, because it's very wide what these ends are planning. First, let us neglect so many ideas, that is, so many regulations, which they make against them. For example, fracing-- Social housing, quality employment, education compatriot... We have something to do. We have something to do. Amaitzeko, Grammar of Fantasy As Doctor Desire sings: "The pleasure of conspiracy, putting the world upside down, like two naughty children, is the time to storm paradise."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u128	Yeah. Well, first of all, that I have not done so before, I want to greet UNESCO Director Etxea – who I know is following this item on the agenda of today's plenary session – Arantza Acha, an institution that, of course, as far as I have been able to see, has a lot of material on its page to disseminate the Sustainable Development Goals and that will surely be an important part of the outreach and work that this autonomous community devotes to managing the 2030 Agenda. Mr Martínez, I understand perfectly well the nuances you have put here on the table, but I know, from what I have known you at this time, that your group will also work on the cross-cutting alliances that require the implementation and involvement of the whole of society in the implementation of these objectives. And Mrs Etxebarrieta: there is the different; it is not a story, it is a reality, and moreover, the objective of the SDGs, as I have said before, is not to leave anyone isolated, to involve 100% of society and all countries, also the different.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u130	Okay. I'm just asking for a punctual vote at the moment. First, we'll take the second and seventh points, and then we'll forget the others. I was asking Mrs Sánchez why, because 1, 2 and 7, because they are issues that are going to be done, and the rest of the issues are that they are here, I have even underlined it. The coordination of the Government will be done by the General Secretariat of the Presidency and the General Secretariat for External Action. The annual follow-up report is also here. Interinstitutional coordination also: the Interinstitutional Commission for External Action. The budget that is adapted is also here, but the budget lines are adapted and what needs to be done is to adapt the policies too, which is the theoretical part of the policies, to the 2030 Agenda; not to adapt the Government Programme to the 2030 Agenda, but to the contrary, to adapt the 2030 Agenda to the Government Programme. That's why we're critical, and that's why we're going to abstain. And Mrs Oregi, too, with regard to sustainability, obviously there is a great deal of progress in Euskadi, but we still need... The last report, if I remember correctly, is more than 10 years ago, two Euskadi and half for the development model we have. A new report on Euskadi's ecological footprint will now be commissioned. So we need radical transformation to go back to that situation. And therefore we have appeared critical in the presence of this diary, but are also proposing in the disputes of laws relating to the environment; Mr. Becerra is here to defend our corrections, and that's why, although he's a very critical book, we'll take advantage of the private gathering, so that we can keep our discussions there and make our contributions there. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u131	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u132	Just to ratify me in support of the compromise amendment. And that we continue to believe that all the points of this compromise amendment are important, because they are complementary to each other. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u133	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u134	Yes, good afternoon again. And just to answer a few things, and to thank all the teams again, because of the desire for work they have shown, to follow and to act in the intergroup. Martínez Zatón jauna, neither was egon nintzen aurkezpenean, aurreko esten, eta lehen ez said weretzun, bath Cebek-ekoak ez zuen esan that was an agenda to make up. His comment, if my memory does not fail me – which does not usually fail me – was that everything can be used, misused, to make up, but it was not the case and that they were precisely in a will to work loyally with the 2030 Agenda and with an implication of their entire organization. I also have to say that, well, in the Agenda that was presented to us the other day, the 2030 Agenda, what is done is to translate..., as the lehendakari that the government was going to do promised us – he told us here in the plenary of general policy and also in the presentation of the government plan –, to translate or unite, to align the plans, the proposals for legislation, to align them with the Sustainable Development Goals. That's a step to take. That integration must be made and, from there, indicators put in place and measured; we must continue to do so, and I am sure that the Government will continue to work on that line and we will go through the follow-up reports and we will go through the performance and on what issues we are moving forward, on which not, which ones to change, which ones to correct and which ones to strengthen, because, as I have said before, Euskadi's path to sustainability has been long and complete for decades already. Eta Oihana Etxebarrietari esango nioke, ba buen –ez dakit –: Bakarrik honetan ariketa bat proposatu digu, éta ez dakit zer lege behera lagatzea. Nik you went to nahikoa's hori ez, eta agendak berak esaten digu... eta jasangarritesun-prozesuek esaten digutena da gauzak integratuak izan behar sayla, éa orduan beti kontuan hartu behar duzu zer eragin daukaten gauza batzuek besteengan. Beraz, I'm dugu Bakarrik Hau Kendu. Ez. Ikusi behar da gauza bakoitzak besteengan zer efektu daukan. Beraz, ikussi behar dugu what effects economic activity has on the environment and environmental services in the economy and environmental services in society and society in the environment and social variables in the economy, that is, we have to cross everything with everything. This is the question, this is what the 2030 Agenda seeks, and this is what they want or what we have had on the table for many years with sustainability policies. And to finish, for my part too, since it is the last point and that we are finishing, I recommend a book to you. Last summer I had the opportunity to read a book that had just come out – I was waiting for it to come out too – which is called Doughnut Economics. The other day I saw that I was in Spanish in the news of our library. If you haven't read it, I recommend it. In Spanish is The economy doughnut Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Well, since the discussion is over, we're going to vote. I understand it'll be spot-to-face. I guess there's no problem voting for points. One, two, seven. No, no, I'm sorry... One and two, then the rest and the seventh. Well, we'll vote for one and two points first. "Essal Populars, Euscal Socialists, and some middle-class correction signed by Eucabertists, and two points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 65; the supporters, 51; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 14.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u136	So one and two points have been accepted. Next, we vote three, four, five, six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 65; the supporters are 42; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments 23.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u137	So, the points we've just said were accepted. And finally, we vote for the seventh point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 65; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstaining, 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-19.u138	So, the seventh point has been unanimously accepted. Next, I shall read an institutional expression: Please, an institutional expression... The institutional expression for cascade and Eucharation. 'The last measurements have confirmed the insight and knowledge of the euphoria in various parts of the Basque Country. There are more and more people who are able to speak in the Euskuke, and those who understand the eucalyte are also more and more. These two facts inform us that there are good conditions for increasing the eucalyptic relations. "It is evident that it is necessary to encourage a greater degree of the use of the enemy, and to create contexts that encourage new linguistic exercises. In order to achieve these goals, it will be important to devote preparation and power to the speakers. "The purpose is to promote the use of the support by activateing the popular eucharists. And to the point of this, some of the promoters who work around the Basque Sea have created Euscharators. "The present is not a campaign, nor a feast for the eucalyptus. Basque is a social exercise. "One day, it will be an additional use in the language of the talking euskals, and the use of their networking will be the "Euscharation between November and December 2018." "Actuation means turning it on. It is a concept connected with the use of language, which is intended to be used by those who can speak of euphora, or by those who have the ability to understand euphora. "With Euskaraldia during those 11 days, people over the age of 16 want to be converted into Ahobizi Belariprest Ahobizi Belariprest "Although the initiative will be developed throughout the Basque Country, it will be euskaltzales of each place who will boost the dynamics of each municipality, and will be adaptable to the reality and sociolinguistic context of each place. "Therefore, groups of euskaltzales from different regions, municipalities and neighborhoods, as well as different associations, companies and institutions, will participate in the organization. Many of them have already begun to work on the preparation of the social exercise to be carried out this year. "The Basque Parliament has agreed to this institutional statement: "One. The Eusun Act is the object of the Euscade, that is to say, of eucalyptic language, and of forcing them to act. "Bill. The Basque Parliament joins Euskaraldia, materializing its accession by means of this institutional declaration. "Three. The Euscian law wishes to encourage all the citizens, to share in the Euscauage, according to their capacity, by acquiring an instrument of power, by creating space for the eucassional relations, and by pushing them into this practice." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-nine.
