ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Single point in theme list: "The monographic argument about the law." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Together, the representative of the Podemos group has the word to defend and present its own initiative. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, today we are finally going to talk, under conditions, about taxation in this Parliament. And I say it in terms of conditions, because, although the debates on taxation in this House have been recurrent since the start of the legislature, there has been no real possibility of presenting a serious and profound debate. As you all know, as you all know, the parties that support the governments of the different outlaws have already registered or are about to register their tax reform on the three general boards, thus giving the necessary envelope and putting the final link to the famous photo of the pact between the party furthest away from the will of Basque citizens and the Basque Government. Look, it is curious that those who sometimes say that this is not the place to talk about taxation, by means of budgetary agreement, in this same space, Euskadi's fiscal policy to the People's Party and agree just the opposite of what the Basque Government's own economic adviser had been demanding this year. But what I have really wondered on many occasions is how it is possible that a country's fiscal policy is dictated by the party with less support among citizens; how it is possible that with a progressive majority in this Parliament and in the sense of Basque citizenship, as the election results and surveys show, it is not possible to agree to carry out a truly fair fiscal policy for the benefit of all citizens and the entire Basque economy. And we must consider that as the majority is a progressive in this parliament, this right compact would not have been given if the Social Party hadn't wanted it. For it is true that in this legislature the numbers are given, and therefore it is necessary that the structure of our country should be modern and extensive social and economic structures, trained men and fewer differences. And that's why it's not the business of taxing big companies, the purpose of a good tax policy. From Elkarrekin We have requested this full monograph because we consider it to be one of the most important debates for all those who defend equality, solidarity and social justice. Because this is one of the most important debates for those people we want, under these principles, to build a just society in which no citizen stays behind. In the previous monograph on taxation in February 2013, a majority of the House approved the creation of a forum to bring the debate on taxation to this Parliament and to do so before the tax changes were made, so that this House, which has the powers of harmonisation and coordination, could exercise them. But this is an unfulfilled agreement, once again unfulfilled by the parties that have already submitted their regressive fiscal agreement. An unfulfilled agreement for interest, for the interest of which I wanted to draw budgets forward at all costs, would be at any price. That social justice had to be taken forward? Well, we'll take her in front of us. Is it necessary to reduce taxes on large companies with profits even further? Well, we agreed on the biggest drop in history. What do we need to hear from this Parliament's agreements? Doesn't matter, does it? But we are still in time to correct and comply with that agreement of this very Parliament, debating and trying to deepen the possibility of establishing basic lines of reform, of a reform that is faithful to the majority feeling of this House, a progressive tax reform. And we have repeated it on many occasions, but we reiterate it: there is no possibility of a just society without a fair fiscal policy. And that is why, in the face of these fiscal adjustments of the PNV, the PP and the PSE, which do not go forward, but which go back to fiscal justice, from Elkarrekin We believe that it is absolutely necessary to bring to this House a monographic debate in which to address taxation as a whole. When we talk about a tax policy, we always have to go along with the so-called social context we live in, and it's never too late to ask ourselves what has been done during the tax changes in the past years or why we've had the imbalance between money and expenses in the last decade. I was asking in Basque what has been happening with regard to taxation in recent years, basically because the usual rule in the last decade has been large imbalances between income and expenditure. And when making this analysis, the cause of this budgetary imbalance must be sought in the pre-crisis period. Why? Because in times of economic boom, our general boards approved successive tax reforms with a very clear objective: to reduce the tax burden on capital incomes and business profits. It has been shown that those reforms that were sold as modernity, or that were sold as greater competitiveness of our productive fabric, were false, as false as the arguments that are now used to justify this tax reduction, because they are exactly the same. Be clear, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, gentlemen of the People's Party. The goal is to make those who have the most pay less, the ultra-neoliberal creed that inspires their proposals is there. Don't keep trying to fool Basque citizens. Its recipe results in greater social inequality. Be honest and say it clearly. What many people are wondering, people who voted for the Socialist Party program, is whether the Basque socialists assume that creed and those recipes. I want to believe that no, that there are enough arrests in the PSE to say that no to the electoral programme of the People's Party. Do not be mistaken, because this is a stretched hand, a stretched hand because, truly, Euskadi can and wants a new fiscal reform, a progressive reform, a reform that in order to move forward needs your support, that of the socialists of heart. So let us add, let us add the votes of the left, of the progressive forces, of all those values, of all those Basques and Basques who voted for social change programs, who voted for social justice, who voted for less inequality, who long for, who want, who ask us to pay more. And let's see if it's important what we have in our hands, that it was those pre-crisis tax reforms that were alluded to earlier by those that undermined the capacity of public institutions to finance social spending and public services; it was these reforms, as proposed by the People's Party (which is not by chance), that created the breeding ground for social cuts and unsustainable debt rates. In 2007, corporate tax fell from 33 % to 30 %; in 2013 it fell from 30 % to 28 %; now, in 2018, they want to leave it at 26 %, until 2020 at 24 %. Where is the limit, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party? Where? What's the point? Disappear? That it's irrelevant? That big profit companies don't have to pay taxes? Well, they're on the right track; they've cut the guy in over 27% in 10 years. You want to limit yourself to collecting the minimum, also lowering taxes to those who have the most. How will the social cuts of the crisis be reversed by raising the minimum? Or is it that this tax reduction directly prevents those cuts from being reversed? This is how the maximum of neoliberal policies is met: if the economy is doing well, taxes must be lowered because the economy is doing well, and if the economy is going badly, they must be lowered to improve. The Government now says that the economy is going well and that we have already passed the crisis. That's right, the government loves talking about macro data. When we come down to the suffering of so many families, things change. Don't forget, thousands of families continue to suffer from poverty day after day, job insecurity, unemployment or their income-guarantee cuts! However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, agree, together with the People's Party, another tax reduction to the people who have the most money.Why? Well, simply because your tax model is the same. I repeat: exactly the same as that of the People's Party, that those who have the most pay less and that those who have the least pay for what they do not pay those who have the most. Because I'm not saying anything new if I say here today that our tax system isn't fair, is it? Because this is a statement that has been shared both by Elkarrekin Podemos, as well as by Euskal Herria Bildu, and by the Basque Socialist Party on many occasions. Patxi López himself expressed a few years ago that our policy of tax is not fair, and I'm sure that together we share Podemos, PSE, and EH Collect, today's policy is not fair. Nor is it right, especially, in so far as it is supported by wages and indirect taxes. Are you sure, Mrs. Castelo? Why do you also believe in the PSE that the current tax system is unfair? You, like us, like Euskal Herria Bildu, as a majority of Basques and Basques, believe that it is unfair that the collection is fundamentally supported by payroll and indirect taxes, that it is unfair that capital income does not pay the same as labor income. If so, let us vote together on the resolutions of this House to put an end to that injustice. It is in your hand, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. And we have a tax system where the tax burden is 7.3 points below the EU average. And this means that, annually, in Basque farms, more than EUR 3.2 billion is stopped being raised. And we have a tax system in which workers pay much more, up to 40% more on average, than liberals and professionals. And that's not fair. We have a tax system that allows those who live on income and not work to look for a thousand shortcuts to pay much less than they deserve. And that's not fair. And it's that we have a tax system where capital income pays much less than labor income. And that's not fair either. The injustice is that our tax system is not dealing similarly with situations that may be similar, in relation to the taxpayer's ability to pay. Today in Euskadi it is a very different way to the taxpayers depending on the origin of their income or profit. While income from work can be taxed up to 49%, a large renter with rented flats the maximum he would pay would be 25%. And this is a situation that has long been enquished, but that is not why we can naturalize, and it is our obligation to put an end to it. How are we going to build a prosperous society, with quality public services, if there are entrepreneurs who defraud the estates more than EUR 2.3 billion each year? That's unfair. And progressive taxation and serving people cannot tolerate institutions not doing their job in the fight against those who steal from us all. And that is why it is necessary for progressive forces not to allow this to continue. For Basque citizenship it is impossible to understand that the Basque Socialist Party, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin We may not reach an agreement to end tax fraud when we are a majority, a majority on the street and a majority in this House. Please, for the people, for the people who honestly pay their taxes, for the most elementary sense of justice, let us add our votes, let us add our votes, Mrs Castelo, against tax fraud; do not add yours to those of the People's Party, do not add them to parties that squander on corruption. But it is even more serious that we have a tax system that does not take into account half the population, women. And that's also unfair. Very, very unfair! Because, as you know, fiscal policy, like any other economic policy, is not gender neutral. Tax policies have different impacts on the lives of women and men, and the different gender-based impacts of tax burdens and benefits need to be analysed. A Euskadi who wants to move towards real and effective equality between women and men cannot look elsewhere on this issue. In Elkarrekin We understand that taxation is the necessary tool to achieve a more supportive, less unequal and fairer society. Taxation is one of the key elements for social cohesion and for the progress of a people as a whole, who leaves no one behind. And that is why we see taxation as the basis for burden sharing in a society according to the possibilities of each person and resources to be redistributed according to the needs of each one, because we must not forget that only under the umbrella of social justice will we be able to guarantee free and quality public services that are the basis of real equal opportunities in our country. To achieve this, it is essential to have a tax system that pursues the purposes of income adequacy, equity, efficiency, wealth redistribution, economic activity and the creation of quality jobs, and that promotes equality between women and men. In short, a progressive fiscal policy. And precisely because of all the above, the progressive forces which, I repeat, we are a majority in this Parliament have a duty to reach agreements that promote the change of this unjust tax system. Reviewing the electoral programmes of the progressive forces (of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, of Euskal Herria Bildu and of Elkarrekin Podemos) and the previous interventions that have been made in this very Parliament, I see that we could really lay the foundations for a fiscal policy that goes in the opposite direction to that of the People's Party and that of the Basque Nationalist Party. No, it's not that it's a shame that these forces don't agree, it's that it would be unforgivable, because what's at stake is improving the lives of all citizens. And I will insist one and a thousand times that there is a majority in this House, a progressive majority, that there is a majority in this country who want a progressive fiscal policy and that it is unforgivable to miss the word given in the electoral programmes. Because today a tax agreement is possible, very different from the People's Party's tax cuts. Today it is possible, if the Socialist Party of Euskadi wants and, of course, in Elkarrekin We want you to want, we want you to let go of your pacts with the right and feel to talk to the left and progressive forces of this country. That is why today I would like to call for coherence, for the word given to citizens and for working for the progress of society as a whole. In this sense, and trying to combine sensitivities and with the aim of reversing the injustices of the tax system mentioned above, we presented last Friday the document Six Keys for a just fiscal policy shared by progressive forces, a document that is the backbone of the resolutions that we will present once the debate is suspended. This document contains six keys, which I will quote very briefly below. The first one. To promote the progressive convergence of the fiscal pressure of the Basque Autonomous Community with the EU average. The second one. To progressively equal the taxation of income from capital and savings with that of labour. The third one. We will recover the figure of a tax that, whatever its name, really grave to the estates, that really graves them. Fourthly, the fight against tax fraud beyond newspaper headlines. Let us really fight, let us put concrete measures on the table, effective measures to put an end to this scourge. Fifth. Let us introduce a gender perspective into the fiscal policies that are implemented in the Basque Autonomous Community. And the sixth and final key: we feel the foundations of a green taxation in Euskadi. It is six points, six keys, six guidelines for a fair fiscal policy that we should at least share the progressive forces, that is, Elkarrekin Podemos, Euskal Herria Bildu and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. Moreover, they are contained in the electoral programmes of these three parties; they are the commitment we have already made to Basque society; they are our word. Can anyone defend voting against your election program? Can anyone who is called progressive, left-wing or socialist vote against his program and in favour of the program of the People's Party? I wish this didn't happen! Because Basque citizenship, young people, pensioners, the unemployed, those who suffer the consequences of an unjust fiscal policy want solutions and for this reason, from Elkarrekin We can propose to the progressive forces that we are able to fulfill our mission in this House. That is, that we are able to put ourselves at the service of Basque society as a whole, without leaving anyone out, and that we do so by fulfilling the word already committed to Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u3	Yes, good morning. Good morning, everyone. This is where we're going to discuss the tax policy again. The political debate has recently been in many different departments of taxation, because the crisis has aroused the discussion of public resources. Today we are going to argue, but I think today we have so many reports on the table that give us a context. On the one hand, the Basque Council yesterday closed the accounts of the 2017 funding. On the other hand, the main vitamin will be at Madrid tomorrow to report to the firm and to the investment funds the state of Biscay. The funny thing is, he's not strong yet, but he's leaving Madrid. To explain that they will pay more taxes? I don't think so. And in the end, the principal councils will discuss PNV, PSE, and the prosecuting attorney, agreed by PP. We've even met a few weeks of search warrants. The deputy general of Bizkaia has an event tomorrow in Madrid with the business world to sell – according to his own words – "the new fiscal scenario". Curious. Really a scenario that still, as far as I know, is not approved... But anyway, there goes the congressman. What is Bizkaia's deputy general going to sell them? What are you gonna tell them? That they're going to pay more taxes, as the Member of the Treasury tried to make believe this very Monday, with a collection forecast that he himself called a simple simulation? What's he gonna sell them? That even if the corporate tax rate is lowered, have you made sure that companies eventually pay more? Really? But do you think public opinion is silly? Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, you don't believe it yourself. As for the collection of money in 2017, we have heard of everything: That he's a record record of history... It's all right to get over the allegations made for 2013. In 2015 and 2016, you collected $15 million less, and after a more humble preview, it's good once again to defeat the targets. But up there, it's not that bad. The most important and the most obscure thing for us is to make the data and development of the past years, the development of the years we've been involved in a crisis, the comparison of the data. And in this there is little reason why we should be proud and glad, and yet there is no reason why we should be worried and sullen. Let's see. Looking through the tax records of 2017, the workers have paid 727 million more than 10 years ago, while the companies have paid less than 922 million years ago. Twenty17s were twenty-nine percent of the collection, and 2007 was 33%; while, from 14 to8, it has been paid to 7%.7 years ago. It is plain, therefore, from these facts, that the tax system has made a retreat in respect of progress and equity, that the greater number of taxes are derived from the revenues of labour, and not from the profits of enpresies, and still less from capitals or wealth. This isn't just happening in 2017. It's the track that comes after you, the result of a political choice. And the gravest thing is that with the changes you've made during your crisis, it's the way you've been over and over again. In this way, the way to attack the crisis has mostly been shorter, even in ours. In this sense, it must be said that the liberal view has prevailed in the governments of Europe, and especially in the handsomest institutions of the European Union, instead of the policy of taxing taxes which the politics of the workers may strengthen, instead of the policy of the capital. The international policy and the tax-escape of the tax management designed in favor of economic powers have been added to the prosecutor's engineering. And they've been ignoring all that concerns the prosecutors of Paradise. We have, as an example, the active management of the Spanish State of the United States in order not to appear in the list of the prosecutors of paradise. In this play, the profits of large companies are devoted to small rates, and the dumping prosecutor, dumping, extends to incomes, wealth, and corporations. You've been through the same road here, and unfortunately you've shown all the intention of following it that way. In this context you've decided the policy of tax points to short-term point of view and sometimes even to the apostatorial point of view, even here in Madrid and here, considering the actual needs of the moment, and ignoring the long-term strategy... (Of course, in the name of stability! .). Now, PNV, PSE, and PP, have agreed to change the tax-change which has no long-term point of view, and unfortunately the change of tax-change which follows the liberal right-hand view in favor of those who have more of the present system, and which does not at all concern the subject of social differences. PNV-PSE and PP have recently agreed to a tax change following the path of the 2013 counter-reform. They lower corporate tax again, adorning it with changes in deductions (a deduction that we already told them in the 2013 financial year that they were not going to be effective). They generalize their property tax downwards, of course, eliminating from the root any glimpse of the tax on wealth and great fortunes. Yes, a tax on wealth, because that is what it is about, a tax that outweighs the distribution of wealth so that they pay more those who have more. In short, you again give a cut to the collection capacity and, even worse, to the redistribution capacity of the Basque tax system. You follow the same path as always: to content those who have the most, those who mark the way (big companies and communication groups), because that is unfortunately what you have done. They did so in the 2013 counter-reform, filling out the tax on exhaust companies; they did so in 2007, lowering the company tax, and they did so in a follow-up exercise to the Spanish State, erasing the property tax for two years from the tax map. That's what you've done. In our country, social rights are not guaranteed, and there's a great deal of talk about your tax policy. And now the rates of taxations which you will put in force will no longer resist the roots of the euscal society, because they will not be able to guarantee the permanent, permanent, tax-retributive rise which is required in the levying of taxes; for they do not at all support the freer function and the progress of progress which the tax policy ought to fulfil. No way! You've agreed to change taxes on the favors of the rest of the world. The wants of society, the agents, and here the chief department of Ogas, have been admitted to a change of taxation which has not answered the exigencies of the community. And this wrong path of tax changes hasn't been closed. PP has made it clear that he's going on his way. I mean: the means of making the economic power of the public sector smaller and smaller. After all, the public sector itself becomes weaker and weaker, and consequently the means of weakening public and public policy, so necessary to the welfare and development of society. This, of course, is not said (they adorn it with fine words and many marcheins), but the object of the right is that which lies behind the attacks against the police, which is behind the bells against the immigrants and those who are in great poverty. In the PFE of 2019, PP wants changes (which has already been laid on the table). They will say that they are moderate in favor of those who are inferior, and that they will sell, but those who have least need of them are strong public policies, and there will be fewer and fewer money for them. You follow the classic recipe of liberalism. It is normal for the right to follow it, but to see the PSE, those who boast of giving the left-wing touch to the government, denouncing themselves of really progressive fiscal measures and in the post of the common welfare that they supported in the past (such as the wealth tax and the great fortunes), or crossing the red line that they themselves had set themselves and of which they had bragged in relation to the type of corporation tax (even though it is not surprising, because it is not the first time they do), does not cease to be curious or even incongruent. But that's where you're at. Commanded by the lehendakari himself and his party, in those, they are, in contenting the great employer, the great builders, the deregulatory financial companies of the market, who applaud them with their ears, before in private, now already in public, and at the same time try to make the citizen believe that it is for the good of all. You are facing the great social challenges of a society that is constantly evolving with short-term recipes, with prescriptions that have already proved to be wrong and that, at most, give a striking result of collection in periods of growth, but that perpetuate the gap between those who have the most and the working class. In short, they make inequality, which the economic crisis has been responsible for making ever greater, become an intrinsic characteristic of our society, because of your political will, because you want it to be so. Because look, there are more than 128,000 people unemployed, and with GDP rates similar to 2008, there are still 70,000 people less busy than before the crisis. There are 137,000 fewer jobs in Euskadi and Navarra than in 2008. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, perhaps if you really had a national vision of Euskal Herria, you would be talking about introducing measures that would bring the economic reality of Hegoalde closer to Iparralde (I don't know, in the minimum wage, in the minimum pension...). There's a lot to learn. There are many examples that you go over, without taking into account the various realities of this country, because for this year there are 8,626 less unemployed people who have had to make more than 958,000 contracts and, above all, only 7.65% of these contracts have been indefinite. 8,000 people less unemployed! 958,000 contracts for that! Screen! Of course, 9 out of 10 contracts are temporary, and of these more than half last less than 30 days. Less than 30 days! And worst of all, the worst reflection of the low wage conditions that our young people and our workers have, the best example of precariousness is, for example, the average net household income statistics that, according to the INE survey, amounted to more than 34,000 euros in 2016, and is 2,000 euros less than in 2008. Eight years and homes have 2,000 euros less to live on. But everything's fine. The macronomical data may seem to exceed the crisis, but reality is that this growth does not reach the whole community. Those who have more and more, and those who have less, do not see the end of this crisis in their life. And in this respect the policy of the taxes is very much said, in several respects: who pays taxes on the one hand, and on the other the tax collectors and the use of this collection, of course, as a consequence of these politics. The data's in there. The GDP of the 2017 CAPV has been 10% higher than the GDP of 2007, but this increase in wealth has not directly resulted in a higher collection, since the final collection of 2017, reducing these extraordinary revenues of the Cup, has grown little more than 100 million in 10 years. 100 million in 10 years, when we're talking about collections of more than 14,000. Please, what are you talking about! It's not to throw rockets! Ten years in which our country's situation has changed substantially, with greater social needs (we have already seen how budgets do not respond properly). Greater needs are the result of an increasingly unequal society, an inequality that you are deaf to, hiding in these statistics compared to the Spanish State that you like so much. A society in which, despite the invisibility, there are people who, even receiving social benefits, do not come out of poverty. So, something's not doing right. It's not worth the mantra that we'd like to do more, but there's no more. Because there is, but you prefer to keep it that way. Because the CAPV's fiscal pressure is 32%, and in the European Union of 28 the average is 40%, and in the euro area it is 41.5%. So, there's room. There is scope for a more advanced, more cohesive and equal society. There is room for increased fiscal pressure, there is scope for capital and business profits to make the real contribution they owe to society. Because in addition, those who have the most, and especially companies, do have the benefits of public policies, benefit from public policies. And in this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is irresponsible, not to say that it is directly lying to society, to transfer to public opinion that we pay too much taxes. And that's why we made our proposal, and today we put it on the table. Probable proposal to open the road, to strengthen the web of real economy, to overcome its dependence on external capital, to enhance its commitment to the country and its people, and to increase the capacity of the tax collectors. And as we believe that the policy of the taxation has a direct influence upon all of us, it is necessary that the public should be introduced, shared between the institutions and the political and the institutions of society, to make a new form of taxation, based on consent, to direct the privations which it has to-day examples. When we collect the Basque People, we clearly see that it is impossible for us to retain the social prosperity, the quality of public services, and the universality of all, and the tools necessary to maintain the support of a worthy life. And the tax system is a primary tool for distribution of the wealth which we produce, and by which it is essential to build a model of social prosperity for all men. Our fiscal proposal is in line with the fact that it is those who have the most to bear the increase in tax pressure in a twofold sense: to increase the collection and to move forward in the redistribution of wealth. A proposal that has several axes that are concrete in different proposals that today I will try to degenerate. The axes on which our proposal hinges are as follows: Measures to correct the decompensation, which we have already commented on, in the tax burden on labour income, which is much higher than that of capital income or that of business profits, thereby increasing taxation on capital income and returns from business and professional activities. Measures aimed at expanding our fiscal sovereignty. Because to build a tax system that meets the needs of the country and its people we need full fiscal sovereignty. We need all possible tools for the benefit of Basque society. And measures to strengthen the fight against fraud and tax evasion. We must also promote green taxation, which protects our environment from external aggression and fights effectively for climate change. With these bars, we propose several measures to make our system of taxing, more social, more legitimate, and more integrated. Different measurements before the challenge of the social and dignified state of well-being, to have sufficient resources for all the citizens (succession, sanity, care, housing... (Absolutement and development, training, training, active industrial policies, etc.) In order to develop social policies, to strengthen public expense, and to make investments which are more socially profitable. The other, we propose the following measures: To establish a single foundation in the PFRI, by giving the same treatment to the savings, and to the other kingdoms. The higher level rate of the rent was marginal until 50%. Instead of the tax upon the societies, the tax upon the profit of the societates. A tax proportioned to the contributions which is a progresis. The Subtractions are confined, and capitalism, investment and high-quality employment creation, are fostered by the production of a reserve which are those specific targets. To extend the revenues of wealth and of great fortune to every province of the revenue, to compute the revenue principles, and, on the other hand, to destroy the fiscal shield which now exists. To open the tax rights, to give them rules in the field of the VAT and particular taxes, or to fight against fraud, to be directly related to the other countries, and of course to manage the social security here. Fiscal sovereignty I have said, yes, because we believe it is fundamental to the well-being of our society. There is a need for a transformative country agreement, which collects taxation and its measures as a real priority in national construction. Because, for all this, also today, I extend my hand to PNV and Elkarrekin Podemos, because here also there is a way to go and we can travel it together and together. Because it is enough, it is enough, of that misunderstood stability, which is nothing more than paralysis, self-congratulation and inertia. His pacts, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, with the PP, as in the ceiling of expenditure, the deficit – in this case, of the Basque Nationalist Party – or the debt bring that we now see them protesting for the final destination of surplus collection. Here we have, for example, the statements of the deputy general of Álava, asking for more decision-making capacity on our resources, in particular on the surplus collection. But these complaints are not worth it. It is you who led this situation, it is you who chose to be like this. As they have chosen to delve into a misguided fiscal counter-reform which, as I have said before, has not closed because there will be another round of nuts, as requested by the People's Party, once again involved in the benefit for those who have less, but which undoubtedly pursues the weakening of the capacity of the public sector, the weakening of public social policies. But, once again, it will be your political choice. We're in time to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the rest of the teams, representing the Basque Potula Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bollain, in order not to be the place where it is appropriate to talk about this subject, we beat all the records. I assure you. I don't know if we've had a full monograph every year for five years, proposals that aren't standard, motions, interpellations... At all. Now, I'm going to tell you one thing. This is probably the Chamber that has more debate on taxation and the Chamber that has fewer fiscal powers throughout Spain. That will also recognize me as so. And what we have always said is that if you have such an interest in the tax debate, where you should put your proposals is where you can approve: in the general meetings. Which, by the way, I have not seen that either of the two proposing groups in this plenary today have raised at any of the general meetings, either in Bizkaia, in Álava, or in Gipuzkoa. They put it here, because in the end, then, well, what comes out of here will be recommendations but they will not have effectiveness. And second, it's fake. It has become clear that it is not a full time to talk about taxation. They have asked this plenary to criticise the fiscal agreement that we arrived at – also budget – in the autumn, but, nevertheless, this procedure is also being carried out today at the general meetings. They are processing the outlaws that regulate corporation tax and some reforms in the IRPF, which benefit citizens, and that is where they can oppose that agreement, if they really don't like it. Because I have to tell the two of you that they are, at least, contradictory. They are contradictory because they are coming to us to talk about Europe, about the fiscal pressure in Europe, and when we equal corporation tax the most similar thing in Europe, to the average of Europe, you... Yeah, yeah. Man! We still have the highest guys in Europe and we won't be down in two years. I mean, we're comparing Europe with the corporation tax, and you, man, are setting the scene. And then there's one thing that... This from the lower-than-average tax pressure in Europe... Man, they could make him look at it too. Because, where is the differential in that lower tax burden than the European one? Where is he? In the IRPF? No, no, In societies? No, no, Where is he? In taxes that tax consumption? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you want me to tell you what the differential we have, for example, in 2014? Because it's all under study, isn't it? The implicit tax rate of consumption here was 15.2 %; in Germany, 19.9 %, which is the European average, and in Denmark, where there is greater fiscal pressure, there was 31.3 %. When someone here is arguing that tax pressure must be equated, what he is saying is that the tax on consumption, all types of consumption, VAT and excise duties must be raised. Then say it clearly. And that's everybody: the rich and the not so rich. Everybody. That's the differential. So, you're really posing that? Do you know any other difference between us and Europe in this fiscal pressure? Well, that's what it's called social transfers. Do you know the differential, for example, of the minimum income of insertion, the type that is paid? Here, zero, in Germany, zero; in Denmark, 13%. What about the pensions? Have you looked at him? Because there is also that differential in pensions. This is 9,47; Germany, 14,9; Denmark, 23.07. Are you seriously suggesting that these incomes are subject to taxation? Because there's the differential. Therefore, every time someone comes here to tell us that we have to equal, that we have to raise the tax pressure, we know perfectly well that it means that they want us all to rise the tax pressure. Yeah, yeah. Especially the least-winners. Yeah. Because in the end it is all about VAT and excise duties. That we all know each other! And we are going to have a debate on taxation. And I am not going to bother much in defending the pact that we have reached with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, because for that there are colleagues in general meetings, who are doing very well, among other things, because everyone knows what we have done, which is to substantially improve the competitiveness of companies to create more jobs. Now, Mr Bollain tells us that if the economy goes well, we lower taxes and when we go badly, we lower taxes. Hey, I got him... I mean, please, let's not cheat, so we start a debate wrong. If you are not aware that in 2013 all taxes have been raised here, in the midst of economic crisis, those that tax consumption, the IRPF... They all went up. Everyone! Some through the Congress of Deputies and others through the general meetings. All taxes! Or don't you remember how Mariano Rajoy got everyone to give birth because he was raising taxes when our program was going to lower them? Of course it was going down, but when you see the hole you've been left (it's not a hole, it's a sinkhole!That's why we have to do it. Now, in Spain there has already been a tax reform lowering the IRPF, and another is announced. Here we continue with the 2013 tax hike. And when we talk about the 2013 tax hike, I'm going to give you some data, because when we talk about collection, man, we have to talk about collection and the number of taxpayers. You complained that corporate tax has been collected less. Of course, you probably haven't told us that we've lost 35,000 companies in nine years. 35,000! Today there are 35,000 companies less than nine years ago! I don't know if they're conscious. Of course, and it collects less. Look, we have 35,000 companies less than nine years ago, than in 2008. And, hey, occupied in the Basque Country: in 2008, 993,300; at the end of 2017, two months ago, 915,900. 68,400 people less contributing, busy! And what happened to the IRPF collection? It's increased. Why has it increased, because we lower taxes or because we raise them? Because they got up. Do you know how much each busy IRPF paid in 2008? I'll tell you, 4,488 euros. Do you know how much each busy IRPF pays today? EUR 5,613. Because it is very easy to do the division: collection of the IRPF between the number of occupied and the output of that data. That is, each busy person is paying more than €1,100 more than in 2008. And Mrs Pinedo is right about one thing, family income hasn't increased in these years, it hasn't increased, but taxes do, taxes do. Family income, no. And it hasn't increased for two reasons. One, because wages have not gone up and, two, because taxes have gone up, they have gone up, they have gone up. And now that we are already at higher levels of collection than we had at that time, we understand that it is up to the citizens to return that effort that they have been asked to do. Yeah, of course I do, of course I do, of course I do. He complains that the rent... Of course, you're fantastic: "You have to raise the salary to people." Yes, so that you collect more, because people don't get another euro. Of course, no, we do want people and families to have more money. Return to the families what they have been asked to contribute in these years of crisis. It's something as simple as that. And you... The estate tax... It's just that it's you from the 19th century or something. All over Europe there is only one country that has it and it is France, the only one that has it. Macron has announced that it will be removed in 2019. I don't know if you remember that actor, Depardieu, who went into tax exile with Putin because he was taxed. That tax is half of what you pay here, that tax on the big fortunes you have in France, half of what you pay here. And what happened to France? Well, there was one who went into exile. Do you know how many taxpayers have lost Gipuzkoa in the property tax in the last two years? 700, 700, has lost 700 of the big ones or the small ones. How much has it meant for the IRPF to lose its collection of those 700? What about other taxes in Gipuzkoa? Why don't you make this account? It's good to say here that the rich pay; listen, those rich don't pay in Gipuzkoa anymore. They are gone, yes, yes, they are gone from Gipuzkoa, they are no longer in Gipuzkoa, almost 700. It's just that these are figures from the Gipuzkoa Parliament, which you have on the Internet. Where are they? I will tell you who has increased the collection of taxes in Gipuzkoa: citizens, workers, workers, professionals, self-employed and businesses. Now, those rich ones you say, with big estates, they're gone. And you can record 80% of the property tax, which on zero is going to remain zero. Now, you'll be fine, you'll say, "Let's make the rich pay more." Zero. If we've known him here for a long time. Do we pay more taxes or do we pay too many taxes? Of course we pay too many taxes. I don't know anyone who says he pays a few taxes. Well, yeah, you guys. That we pay little...? Well, you donate the money to the farm outside, if you spare it. Of course we pay a lot of taxes. I don't know anyone on the street who says, "How few taxes I pay!". And when you make comparisons with European countries, the most fiscal pressure is Denmark. Of course, Denmark turns out that it has very high rates, very high in all taxes, but then it turns out that it has a fiscal shield that includes all taxes, including municipal taxes (which in this country will have to be discussed at some point about municipal taxes), including municipal taxes, which cannot exceed 52%. Do we do that here? Do we copy Denmark? Of course, what are you talking about? We are raising and we want the fiscal debate. We want, the collection has already been recovered, we have exceeded it (including the discount of 600 million from the quota agreement of previous years, including that, because the data I have taken out are discounting 600 million from this greater collection of the quota agreement), and it is up to people to return the tax effort that has been requested of them these years. And we clearly believe that the purchasing capacity of families needs to be improved. What you can't pretend is that you have to raise the family's salary... "We don't, we raise the collection." No, we are in the opposite situation. And Mr Bollain, and Mrs Pinedo, let's see, the agreement we have reached is not the PP's proposal. No, no, no! We would have gone much further. Of course, it is an agreement, it is a pact, because our proposal goes through, of course, lowering the tax bill of citizens and families, and we do think that we have to lower the IRPF rates, we have the highest IRPF in all of Spain, listen to you. Yeah, yeah. More than 1,500 euros are collected for each Basque citizen compared to Spanish citizens, only from IRPF. We are paying 1,500 euros more than the rest of the Spanish only in IRPF. That the sum is also very easy, you know? It collects the total amount of the IRPF and divides it among the number of inhabitants, for example. And those are the numbers that come out. We're paying the highest IRPF in Spain. And if we compare ourselves to Madrid, because I don't know how to explain it, because in Madrid they have no heritage (look, the most modern, like the European ones), they have no succession of parents to children, and the IRPF is the lowest. Why do you think so many people have moved to Madrid from here? We have seen in recent months how many companies were leaving Catalonia. Here I think one came. They went to other places, because taxation was better, but it is that in addition to looking at the taxation of companies, companies, managers these have the bad habit of looking at them as they stay and how much they will pay if they go to Madrid, Valencia or Bilbao. And it's just that they came out here to pay a lot more, so they won less. Or what do you think? That people don't look at those little things when they're moving from one place to another and when they can choose? Of course. Sure. And now in the reform that's going on there's a proposal for managers and so on... to do a weird thing to see if the managers are important because they start paying here and quote here. And why have the deputies raised that? Maybe it's because they've detected that managers who make a lot of money don't pay here either and already register out? Do you want to raise more or less? If you want to raise more, the interesting thing is to have people pay a lot of money to pay more. Now, if you throw them out, you'll collect zero. And then, as always, it's up to us to pay everyone, the others, the ones we're here! Therefore, I repeat, what is now important is to give people back the money, the effort that has been asked of them during these years of crisis, that family income has decreased as the collection increased. And aid for families, aid for conciliation, aid for children, aid for daughters, aid for dependency, must obviously be much more important in the tax reform that must be done in the IRPF than they have. Because that's doing justice. Doing justice isn't "I'll take your money and then I'll give you a grant..." No, look, there's no need, there's no need. Let's leave people with the money, let them handle it and do it. And, therefore, personal deductions must be increased. And the savings. Look, but if we have savings incomes, if we have the highest types in Europe, the ones that tax savings. What are you talking about? And taller than in Spain. What are you talking about? Yeah. Yeah. The tallest. (The comparison with Madrid, if you want, I'll pass it to you later). We have the highest types in Europe that tax savings income. You call it "capital," I'm going to call it "saving income," because they're the ones that have been saved. Of course, you record them twice. First, when the performance was obtained and then when... Yes, of course, like the heritage that is, of course, an obsolete figure, that they were going to make for a year and we've been 40, dizzying the loser, climbing and descending. By the way, someone on the left said that suppressing him was very lefty. Well, let's see if the lefts apply the story... And, of course, the fight against tax fraud must be improved. But in that, listen, we've all been here a long time, and we're pioneers in taking measures, not just to fight tax fraud, but against tax evasion, which is a different term, but we've approved them a year ago, and we're all supposed to agree, right? Let's let the outlaws work, keep doing their job... And I'm also going to tell you that, to a large extent, the collection differential that the Basques have with the rest of Spain, is probably because our inspections... Since we have three for two million people, let's say that it is far more controlled than one hacienda for all of Spain. But, in any case, what is obvious, palpable and demonstrable is that taxes have risen, that family incomes have not risen and that, therefore, the effort that has been demanded of families must be returned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u7	Good morning, everyone. The Basque Socialists, as always, believe that any debate on income adequacy to ensure public services and economic progress is relevant. Socialists, as always, believe that this Parliament, in which we decide every day on these public services and on support for economic progress, is the right space to set the guidelines on income. Moreover, the Basque Socialists have just ratified that we want the next statute to expressly incorporate the capacity for us to decide this tax system here. And I will quote literally what we want to be taken into account in our self-government: "As in any modern democratic system, the tax system not only provides the institutions with the resources necessary to finance public policies, but is a guarantee of equal treatment for citizens and an essential instrument for redistribution and solidarity, hence the decisions taken on taxation must have the utmost democratic transparency and control. "For this reason, it is desirable to give the Basque Parliament the power to regulate, by law, the tax system in the area that the Law of Economic Concert assigns to the historical territories." I hope, the Socialists, that the two proposing groups in this plenary, both of them and without any kind of nuance, will be able to channel an agreement on this matter, without having to ask anyone for anything, because it would not be very explicable to force this monograph into this Parliament and then deny this Parliament the power to determine these revenues, unless you come to something else at the moment. And they're gonna let me think they're coming to something else. Once I heard his arguments and reviewed the hemerotec of the last year, because I didn't need to go any further either. You have not come here to define the revenue framework programme in this legislature. You have come – and you know it – to excuse your own inability to agree twice in a row how we distributed public resources in the budgets of this Autonomous Community. Twice, in both debates in the same year, remembering income only when they needed to justify their position in order not to reach agreements. That stretched hand that they always pull out, but never hold. For two times they brought apparent, media initiatives at the end of the day – which is what they are looking for – to try to justify differences instead of getting wet and influencing politics. We told them twice that we were willing to agree with both of them, and twice they left the ground open to the People's Party. And the People's Party has been able to take advantage of that space that you have not wanted to occupy, although you intentionally forget to say so today. You forget, also intentionally, that a year ago you rejected, joining your votes to those of the People's Party (those to which you say it is unclean, for corrupt), joined your votes a year ago (EH Bildu, Podemos and the People's Party), to avoid the celebration of a full monograph like this one you have claimed today. And they said it, and I open quotes, because according to you, "they did not consider that a full monographic was the right place to hold a serious and silent debate about our tax system." Curious, isn't it? Because the first sentence that Mr Bollain used today in presenting this monograph was that "it was about time we had a serious and thorough debate about our tax system". Anyway, that's evolution (my daughter would say it's the Pokemons). And I wonder what has made you change your position, in that position, in that thought. Or have they just not changed? Do you think the same thing or does your proposal have a more unrecognizable and spurious interest? The truth is that I, after the debates this past year, of the last four debates, beyond questioning and questions, do not doubt what moves them. If all these certainties were few, you have publicly presented the full monograph with the declared intention of marking the way for progressive groups, and in particular for the Socialist Party. And I have to tell you, Mr Bollain, you're very late. He's too late, as long as four years late. They come to call for a fair tax reform, and that is what we discussed and agreed on in a full monograph in 2013. Or do they intentionally ignore the fact that this reform deepened the progressive nature of the increase in income tax over €90,000, that capital income tax was increased, that reductions and deductions were linked to the level of income? They don't ignore it, do they? But they obvious it, interestingly. Well, you're obviating it here, in this rostrum, because this so-called tax reform that you've entertained yourself in commenting on this rostrum, 2013 and 2018, if one of you two, more than 95% is the one that you then approve where you rule. And I imagine you know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about Navarra's tax reform. It would not be too much if in this rostrum they maintained a somewhat more consistent position between what they say from the opposition and what they do where they govern in fiscal matters. They come to this plenary to call for fiscal convergence with Europe. But they hide that speaking of nominal rates, those that they like so much and that you have taken them here for a walk, in that convergent Europe to which you are entrusted, the nominal rate of societies is 22%. They are commissioned to do so, but then they criticise the fact that this nominal rate is left here by 24%. Clear out! I do not know what they are asking me, does our reference have to be that 22% European? They come to ask for an approximation of capital and labour incomes, even though they know that an approximation was already made in 2013, and that this duality, which we all share that must tend to disappear, you also keep it in Navarre. By the way, do you know that a shipowner who earns capital income of 10,000 euros pays less than a Basque taxpayer in the same situation? Curious. That's what you've approved there. Elkarrekin We can. Yeah, I know you don't like to be told what you do when you rule. "Now we're here; don't talk to me about what I do in Navarre." No, of course I'm talking to you about what you're doing in Navarre, and it's just that you have to be consistent, and you claim it and I claim it. Is it more progressive and fair for you, for example, to harden the conditions of those pensioners who supplement their retirement with the rent income, for example, of a set-aside, of EUR 150 per month? Don't forget that it can also be the result of saving your life. Because that's what you're proposing. Because they know that the big renters (I imagine they know, I know they know), I guess they refer to non-similar investment funds, they don't tax the IRPF. Care must be taken when talking about generality in tax matters. They also come to propose the fight against tax fraud, as if it were a new issue. They've already told you: they're late. And I repeat, as we have done throughout the debates that have taken place throughout this year 2017, that one of the most important points on which we discussed and adopted motions for resolutions in 2013 was precisely this issue. Or are you doubting the work being done on tax fraud? Then I will return to this topic in the speech. You haven't come to this, have you? They come to place the socialists, and he has said so. But since you have encouraged it, and you have been able to hear it before, but you did not want to hear it, I will thank you for the opportunity to be able to explain it again, for the fifth time, to you throughout this speech. For once, for a whole day, be aware of what we socialists want when we talk about taxation, at least try to listen to me and listen to me. Allow us to remind you that it was difficult for us to force four monographs into two legislatures and that in the end we achieved a large part of our objectives. Not all; a large part of them. This is not the first tax debate in this legislature. "Like every February," we could say (as the song says), as every time the bull has passed the budgets that you have not been able to cape, you take the fiscal debate out for a walk. The first time you and we were able to contrast opinions was in February of last year, in February of 2017, when a monograph, for you, was not up to the circumstances... And I will repeat, because it is fully in force, what I started by saying in that debate. He said to them – and I open quotes –: "We share with the proponents that taxation is a useful tool, a necessary tool to build a country project that will make us progress as a society, that allows us to have public services that cover the needs of citizens. "Taxation is one of the most important tools for achieving greater equality, solidarity, social justice, building a fairer society, since taxation serves to provide sufficient resources for public administrations, to sustain the maintenance of public services and services, to effectively redistribute wealth among the population, and to boost growth and job creation. "I'm sure most groups also share it. We were so convinced that we would incorporate it into the government agreement signed with the Nationalist Party, because we believe that it is necessary to preserve an equitable, progressive, sufficient tax system that ensures an optimal balance between revenue and public expenditure. "The socialists do not believe in the debates of raising or lowering taxes, because the debate must be about what public services we want to have and how we want to pay them. And our position on how it is also clear: to pay everyone and to pay more who has more" – and I close quotes. That's how I started a year ago in that first tax debate. We have told you that our word does not expire, and look, I have been able to repeat to you today one by one the same words I said here a year ago, and I do not expect a headline to result. A couple of months later, back in April 2017, last year, in full approval already of the budgets, Elkarrekin Podemos took the tax surcharges for a walk. Reform was no longer needed because he had found something more original. And do you know what we Socialists said, besides repeating the concept of taxation, that I have not tired of repeating it every time we have been able to talk from this rostrum about taxation? Well, we had two commitments. One, to carry out an evaluation of the results of the reform carried out, because we undertook that three years after the 2013 reform, the results obtained would be analysed, if the objectives had been met, and the virtues and defects that the modifications that had been implemented would have. And that is precisely what the four Basque farms were working on. That is so, without press headlines, without urgency, without the need to put together arguments that disguised themselves as excuses, but with the seriousness that this issue needs. And from the second compromise I told him that we had, it is that in view of those data and those conclusions on whether or not the objectives were met, we would propose the necessary modifications. Then, you've already forgotten a little bit about the subject. Since April, the truth, the time passed, the spring came, the summer came, the autumn came and the tax debate happened to you. Until the new budgets were made. The budgets are put before you and then yes, when you are expressly offered to negotiate with you, because you return to the same game, to seek vain excuses and to take the banner out of opportunism again, this time returning to the reform of the whole system, with a motion five days from endorsing or not the budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2018 and two days from having requested this now valid and adequate full monographic. And we had a new debate, barely two months ago. And you know what the socialists told you two months ago from this rostrum? For we could agree with you on the broad lines of your speech (the famous topic of convergence with Europe, to continue in the fight against tax fraud, in green taxation, in the taxation of wealth..., among other issues), but that we did not share, by concrete means, those that you supposedly presented in the press. Which is how it works. He also said today: "We have presented in the press...". Well, let's see if one day it is customary, in addition to the press, to present it to this Parliament, and so we can all have a little more knowledge of what they are proposing to us. Moreover, in order to be formations that boast of participations, we do not know very well who they agree with, nor how they calculate them, because in fact some in that month, two months ago, went out on the one hand 1,650 euros, and instead others, if they did the accounts, 1,250. Anyway, I don't know when they come today what the bill is going to come out to them. And everything, Mr Bollain, with just one excuse, that has nothing to do with a debate that for us Socialists must always be of use to get resources to sustain public services, and that for others, for you, it only serves to dress your speeches and, above all, to dress that fear that you have to commit to. Everything was an excuse for a bad payer, of those who had the door open to influence and who rejected it because they did not want to get dirty. You did not want to compromise; therefore, it is not legitimized to come here to place absolutely no one. There is one thing very advisable to make politics, except for what you are here for something else, and it is called a "principle of reality", and I will explain it to you, Mr Bollain. If citizens don't give you enough confidence to achieve everything your election program says, try to add up to influence the direction of what your election program says. And ours, our electoral programme, both 2009, 2012, and 2016, clearly says that taxation is a tool of solidarity, which is the instrument with which we carry out being members of a society in which we jointly manage progress and insecurity, a society in which burdens are shared according to the possibilities of each and resources are redistributed according to the needs of each. In each and every one of our contributions, of our speeches, which I already know has as reference, as a bedside book at night, we will have heard that taxation has to meet three objectives: to provide resources for the maintenance of public services and services, that is, to guarantee equality and solidarity; to redistribute wealth among the population, that is, to act with social justice, and to promote the modernization and growth of the economy, that is, to seek collective progress. And we don't have to change speech, we don't want to change speech, the "for what", for us it remains invariable. And we managed to translate this in 2013 into a reform that managed to move from a $1.5 billion cut-off budget in employment, social aid and innovation spending to an increase budget of €1.7 billion in these areas. It allowed us to move from the resignation of the cuts to the consolidation of public services. It allowed us to move on from trying to manage the present to prepare for the great reforms of the future. And it allows us to move from 9.5 billion to 11.5 billion. It allows us to dispose today, after the Basque Finance Council, of a remnant to meet our obligations, increase social spending and anticipate new investments. Tax reform is done and works. It's a shame, isn't it?, when you have data that doesn't accompany the speech that has been kept: But it's the same, when the data don't accompany because we pull from..., from history, I think you said? Yeah, about the middle theme. "No, the last one I won't take into account because it doesn't work for me. Well, hey, I've been shooting for the last three years." As if there were no other cause than what the articles of a tax regulation say, as if the tax regulation were applied without taking into account an economic situation of individuals, businesses and the environment. Tax reform is fairer and more progressive, and it did not affect average or low labour incomes, but there was something left. The company tax had to be improved, even conditioned by the costs of the economic crisis, which also affected our companies. And that is where we are now, in correcting that specific tax, which companies must pay, and they will pay more, ladies and gentlemen, they will pay more, because it will be collected more. And if you raise more, it's because you pay more. And we are doing so, even if the People's Party, Podemos and Bildu feel particularly comfortable in the debate this simplistic rise or drop of nominal points, of rise or fall of taxes, of those who defend – and have not defrauded me – that there is no better place for money than the pocket of citizens, forgetting the cost of meeting citizens' rights, which has and is covered by public services provided from the public sector, and of those who defend the confiscation of the benefit that those who invest in employment, production and modernization of the country generate. That's where I leave you in that refreshment. The Socialists are going to deny us that debate. We refuse and repeat: the fiscal debate that we want concerns the guarantee of public services, those that we have decided to have and those that define us as a cohesive society, a taxation that accompanies economic progress and that always meets criteria of justice, equity, progressiveness and effectiveness. I'm not gonna get tired of repeating it. That is why in our electoral programme, Mr Bollain, the one you read with such fruition, we do not talk about nominal types; in the governance agreement with the PNV we do not talk about nominal types, and in our political paper we do not talk about nominal types, because that has never been our debate. What our electoral program says, and what our political paper approved at the last congress says, is that the debate is about the income adequacy to support public services – I don't know if it's been made clear to you yet, but I can still tell you a couple more times – and that we will have to change what is needed to make more money to who else has it. And that is what we advocate; we do not advocate anything else. And the commitment to our constituents, Mr Bollain, that which you are so concerned about, as far as corporation tax is concerned, is the following: I will read it literally (I don't know where you are looking for, but I am looking literally for what our electoral program says). It says: "Review, reduce or eliminate tax subsidies on companies that are not intended to create quality employment, protect the environment and improve energy efficiency or engage in cultural sponsorship activities". And this is what we're doing. "Establish the minimum effective share in corporate tax on 18% of the taxable base". We left it on the 17th and in the pre-agreement with the October Nationalist Party we had not managed to move it on the 13th. We left it at the point that, by the way, EH Bildu proposed to us last year at the Bizkaia General Councils. So to those who have assembled this plenary for the sole purpose of affixing some position and trying to resemble an alternative alliance that does not exist, because it does not add up, I will tell you that there is no change of course or regression within the Socialist Party, that we comply with the commitment and that, by the way, it is a very, very similar reform to that which you have done together with EH Bildu, United Left and the Basque Nationalist Party itself in Navarre (except the nominal rate, which, as you know perfectly well, although in the gallery you do not say, is not what pays almost no company). Moreover, according to the latest published data, since everyone uses the data as it seems to you, I have found some that say that the estimate, and the most favorable estimate, because there were several, but I took the most favorable one, because I did not have to take the worst, the companies, in the most favorable, pay 15% in Navarre. And as far as I know, there you do not consider yourselves any judas, but quite the contrary. If you're looking for press headlines, you're pulling out the tax reform you've done there. Moreover, if I borrow the words of the professor who constitutes a totem for Mr Bollain, the marked course is the right one. Because, in the expert's words to the question, "Is it possible to lower the guy and remove the deductions?", he replied, "Yes." Hey, squeaky, sure, squeaky! "Is it more cost-effective?". "Yes." Then this already explained it. It says: "Because economic efficiency requires you to take the benefits of all companies in all activities. It is possible to lower the rate and redesign the tax base by removing deductions and making other modifications, and to make the tax more efficient and collect the same." Because in the words of your fiscal guru, Mr Bollain, the important thing is not the nominal rate, it's the effective rate. And that is where the changes in corporate tax have been focused. In that one and not in anything else. They have repeated it to the point of satiety and I think you can understand it, that you have the possibility to understand it, although then you always go to that simplistic and rambling speech of the nominal type. What we have achieved in the search for consensus is that they are going to pay many more companies that were so far exempt because it was improved in everything, which is why, although it is hard for you to believe, we are going to raise more. And two days ago they have presented the technical economic reports (which I imagine will continue with the same seriousness as those presented by Helena Franco when she was a Member of the Treasury in Gipuzkoa, who did not do so, I say, what occurred to them at night at home), technical and economic reports, which have not been able to be questioned either by the spokesman of EH Bildu on the Boards, or by the spokesman of Podemos. They just said, "Well, it's hard for me to believe it." Man, we have patience and we know how to wait, the results will be seen, and you will not use them when they do not suit you and you will go to history, but we will see how corporate tax collection improves. Do not tell us whether the People's Party is happy or not, look at it on your bench, because you have left them the free ground to reach agreements. I tell you why we are happy with the socialists: because we are the only left that – whether you like it or not, Mr Bollain – influences this country to achieve a fairer taxation (that which you apply in Navarre); that guarantees all citizens the consolidation and extension of their rights; and we do so because we are the left that guarantees the collection for our public services. But we are also the left who, thanks to this influence, bring stability, which is what we are asked not only by the companies that want to invest and want to create jobs, but also by the stability demanded by Basque society, also by those who vote for other forces that call themselves left-wing. And by the way, I do not want to overlook something that I said to you at the beginning of the speech and which is part of the 2013 tax reform, which you question so much and which for us is essential and which will also be so in our motions for resolutions this afternoon, and which you seem to want to do nothing: it is the drastic change that took place in 2013 in the fight against tax fraud. Because the socialists gave the battle almost in solitary, for too long we had to cry out in the desert on the subject of tax fraud. We were the socialists, Mr Bollain, and I am not going to tire of telling you, who, through a budgetary amendment – because even for that we have to learn how to negotiate, I have also told you on some occasion – have managed to have an updated report on tax fraud, which you can now use and which you like to use. We were the socialists, Mr Bollain, who proposed and managed to interconnect administrations, to cross data to avoid any form of circumvention and to be more efficient in detecting fraud. And it was we who succeeded in creating the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud for the first time in history. Yes, what others want to call an observatory, but which already works, a committee that reports to this Parliament on a regular basis on the actions that are being implemented in a coordinated way by the three Basque administrations and the results they are achieving, and that is expanding its information network also outside Spain to detect capital leaks, which is putting a stop to those who attack public services and the rights of everyone, for not paying what they owe. The fight against fraud will be a key issue for the Socialists, not up to the 50% that you marked, but until there is only one euro that escapes from the drain without paying what is due to it. I'm gonna finish and I'm gonna do it wherever it started. Because we are very clear about what a tax debate is. Socialists believe that we must always pay attention to revenue and expenditure, and we have the commitment, as Mr Bollain knows, to a new review that will re-evaluate the 2013 reform together with the adjustments that are going to be made now, in 2018; to evaluate and evaluate, efficiency and efficiency, and to correct inefficiencies, in that we have been and will continue to be in that. What we see at the moment is that the reform that we managed to achieve in 2013 is yielding results, even if you do not like it, that feel citizenship in the form of public services and businesses in the form of growth. And that, whether you like it or not, allows us to adopt policies that, in addition, can correct social inequalities, economic inequalities and labour inequalities, because for that, and not for other issues, it is for what taxation serves. But I was telling you, you have not come here to discuss this. They have come to continue to expose their frustrations for the two times they lost in 2017 to influence the life of the Basques. Then you tell me to reach out for a deal. But if you already have two opportunities to shake hands with me during 2017! Let's see if you are corrected in 2018 and are able to stretch it and, in addition, accept the agreement with different. And you have not just accepted that here today, despite you, we are in a model similar to that which you have promoted in Navarre. Because I do like to look at what is said and what is done, which you demand from others of coherence. And I'm going to tell you one thing, even in Navarre, even in Navarre, with a second tax reform, a first that you did as you arrived and one that you have now adjusted, you keep the fiscal shield in the property tax. What for you is here a devil with legs to chase and kill, you, in Navarre, you and EH Bildu, keep the fiscal shield of protection in the property tax. You see, when it comes to deciding, you don't differ as much from the rest as you want. And that is the reality, as you today continue to be afraid of being tarnished with any agreement other than those that do not add up and that is simple to you, for we as long as you are in that position will continue to defend the agreement that makes it possible for you to pay more companies and that you pay more those who enter in, and that deductions and compensations are limited, and that deductions that are linked to objectives that we believe need to be promoted, such as quality employment. For this reason, the deduction of employment at this time in the company tax is linked not only to indefinite recruitment, but also to the salary to be received by the new worker. And given your interest in reproducing these debates in this House, we invite you, since you have not included it in your contributions to improve our self-government, as I told you at first, because you join the Socialist Party, hold your hand and hold it for us, from a sincere and pure interest in ensuring that this Parliament is the one to set the common strategy of the tax revenues of this Autonomous Community. The Socialists, of course, will continue to work towards reaching and reaching agreements. Today, all of a sudden, I can tell you that the Socialists are very proud to be able to say to the public that thanks to a fair, progressive and effective tax reform and the fight against tax fraud we have more resources to strengthen our health, our education and improve income-guarantee income to reach those who need it, to accompany companies that are committed to our country and to create jobs. And we are very proud to have made the decision to offer Basques and Basques a scenario of calm and certainty, a little peace of mind and opportunities to transform the country and put us on the path of the 21st century. Because when we talk about taxation, Mr Bollain and Mrs Pinedo, what we talk about is this. We do not talk about good and pure people sitting on benches tingling with leftism, who sometimes forget why they came to this Parliament, and it is to influence and decide on a country's policies. Because to talk about taxation is to respond to the needs of citizens, to have public services and to provide the public services that these citizens demand and need. To talk about taxation is to get a useful tool with which to build country projects that make us progress as a just and cohesive society. And, of course, that neither one of us has any doubt that we are on that path and we will stay on that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Bollain, first, I don't remember very well, though it has been mentioned several times during the discussion, to whom you have called in agreement, to the left or to the progressers. Because if you were appealing to those on the left, you have not forgotten about us; if you were appealing to the progressives of this country, you have forgotten about the PNV. The most progressive, more humanist party that launched the entire institutional project and that has been leading the institutional project of the various Basque public administrations, and that you, Podemos de Madrid, took as a reference in many cases to be able to articulate a project of its own that would serve them to present in other areas. That's the way it is, and I've told you more than once, Mr. Bollain, get the stereotypes out of your head, because otherwise you'll be lost in this world. Because you don't know how many conservative left-wing people I know, and how many center people and right-wing people who are progressive in other ways. Therefore, these types of articulations of the collectives and of how we qualify and classify society are a little outdated. Pero le voy a dar aguos datos. You've noticed that there are restrictions in the system of society. Look at this. In education, in 2009, $2634 million was invested in the budget of 2018, 2722 million. In the health system, 3.447 million in 2009, and in 2018, 3.677. RGI, PCV, AES, 2009, 276 million, 2018, 518 million. The weight of the budget in 2009, the weight of society, education and health, was 60%,9%, and 2018, nearly 70 percent. And you know what happened between 2009 and 2018? "Una Crisis del Copón!" And yet, notwithstanding all this, and although the collection fell, this is the policy and effect of a progressist government which you took as a pattern. In politics, the consistency is very important. And you've been saying, "You've been talking about "su que que que van a hacer es vez pollicas para paguen menos los que másen"-and that's not so. According to data, at least 75% of the lowest incomes on physical people pay 30%; and 25% of the highest rents pay 70%. It is clear, then, how far this data and progressiveity really is a reality in this country. Counterform, Mrs. Pindo. The Counter-Reformation, who was in the Gupurian Fordian Fordun, and so many times in operation of tax policy? 'Est Algree?' You've made the Counter-Reformation to yourselves. Oh, no, no! Who's in the Navarre? What government is there in Navarro? (I have already told you both.) It's together. And I'll read to you, I'll use different sources during our speech. Hau, ELak ateratakoa: "The situation in Navarre is very similar to that of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The IRPF in Euskadi, the pressure is 35,5%". Nafarroan, of 34.3%. Take the beard. And the pressure on corporate tax: Euskadin, % 11, age Nafarroan, 6.6. And you've mentioned it before, Pindo, and so have you, Mr. Bollain. Here, of course, they come down to the sociatae with the nominal types and that's what they do to companies, to help them out for ever, and all that. Well, in this document, actually, it's mentioned as you've been told before, and it's said, because you all know it, and you know it's so, even though you don't admit it in your speech, that it's the most important thing that's that small quota, the effective type, and not so many nominal types. "The low corporate tax collection could have several causes, bonuses, deductions, the option to compensate for losses from previous years in several years. That's why the important thing in corporate tax is the effective rate." And that's all done in the change. That's all you've done in the change. Even though the guy's in one of them has been pulled down, he's got to put those bonds in the tanks and put them in the tanks. And so it is quite in harmony with what you propose to be the case. You've been told what you'd be doing if you were to be a national character, but when you look at the attorney's pressure, Mrs. Pindo and Mr. Bollain, and when you mention other parts of Europe, it's very important, not just to stay in taxes, not just a particular data, but to see what reality is on the expense, and, for example, in the case of Euscadin, how much we've got to spend on our health systems, and how much we've got to do here in the health world, where there's no more drinks, and in Europe, where they pay more drinks to the hospitals. And if we really did, and if we wanted to, we should have a full analysis of the system, we should have all this in mind, and all this is not considered. You've even told me that we balk guys, and that we get away from the other guy in Europe. European guys: in Austria, 25%; in Holland, 25%; Euroman, 24,4; European Union, 22 %6; Denmark, 22; United Kingdom, 20%; Finland, 20, and so on in other places. I think it's all right to consider all these facts, and I understand you're in need of this speech from the standpoint of opposition, but I'm sure you know better than that this analysis has so many gaps. Mr Damborenea, you said that you did not want to talk about what we have agreed and you have moved to another area. We, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, tabled an amendment here, an initiative in which we called for the full fiscal monograph to be held a year ago. This week it will be a year since you, Podemos, Bildu and you, rejected that debate. We do want to place ourselves in the debate that is currently taking place or is going to take place at the general meetings of the three historic territories. It seems to us important that in some way we too can endorse that which, moreover, is the result of an agreement of a broad political majority in the Basque Country. However, it has focused its debate on the IRP area. He said that we have the highest IRPF in Spain, and I think that what you have not provided is other data to be able to do – as Mrs Pinedo said – a complete analysis of what he was saying; that is, it is not the same as what they pay in Extremadura or here, depending on the level of per capita income of one site and another as well. But I will also give you data on the economic index of fiscal competitiveness, which we all have, which is an index of 2017, and only in relation to the income tax of individuals. In this index, and in relation to reductions and deductions by work performance... Well, first it starts from the insistence that the income tax of natural persons is an extremely complex tax, which hinders their comparative analysis, as well as corporate tax... And I am no longer saying anything if what we are doing is comparative analysis of comprehensive tax systems. However, I return to the reductions and deductions for labour yields, and says: "The Basque deputies apply a reduction for income from work that exceeds that applied in the common system communities." With regard to the personal and family minimum, he said: "The greatest reduction, both by personal and family minimum, is achieved in the three members of the Basque Country". Regarding the large family deduction, he says: "The three members of the Basque Country, despite not having a specific large family deduction, continue to offer the best reduction for families with three dependent children." We're on. Tax instalments and rates for lower incomes, Mr Bollain, Mrs Pinedo, tax instalments. He insists again on the complicatedness of the analysis, because the sections are far from homogeneous in all places, and he says: "The results reveal that where the lowest taxes pay the lowest income is in the Basque Country". We're on. Parts and tax rates for higher incomes, we are talking about incomes of more than 150,000 euros, and in this case it says: "The analysis concludes that, with the exception of Navarra, which has the highest type of all, he is followed by the three deputies of the Basque Country". Therefore, the lowest income where they least tax is in Euskadi, the highest income where they most tax is in Euskadi. And it concludes the analysis of the various factors in relation to the income tax of natural persons by comparing the aggregate index of this tax and says: "The first position of the income tax index is occupied by the three members of the Basque Country". That is the reality in relation to the income tax of natural persons. However, as you well know, because when we agreed on the updates that are now under discussion at the general meetings of the three historic territories we agreed that now what was appropriate, and following the evaluation of the results of the reform that was adopted in 2013 and entered into force on 1 January 2014, it was necessary to make immediate updates, mainly in the corporate tax, and that in a scenario, not far away, it would be appropriate to re-evaluate the data from that updated reform with the new modifications and assess whether, in fact, it is necessary to reform some taxes again and, among them, also the income tax of natural persons. The whole system always has to be in continuous analysis, in continuous evaluation in order to be able to improve. This discussion in the legislature, Bollain, has been made for five years a third discussion, which we have discussed with only one subject, a third discussion. Look at the matter we refuse! There is no other question of a single subject, five, which has been so much discussed in this legislature! And in all the discussions we have always made, we insist upon two ideas. One, stability. Stability is absolutely necessary. And you need two things to find stability. One, the ability to negotiate, and the denial of one's postulates: conversation, negotiation, agreement, and not every moment being able to make changes, because companies, economic activities, physical people, all require stability. And the second important idea we have observed, and which we insist, is respect. Respect for two things. The one, the sphere of jurisdiction, and the institutions which have jurisdiction in the sphere of taxation, are the principal assemblies, and they must decide what system is, and what changes are to be made, and what changes are to be made. And the second, and very important, both in this and in other respects, is that he is once respected by an agreement, "contribution, nun, devil," and this is always done by the Jest Party. It is essential for us to respect the covenants and agreements adopted. We do not believe that agreements will be adopted which will then be breached on the basis of the advisability of the moment. We respect the agreement we adopted in 2013, you have said a non-compliance agreement, and we will respect this agreement. You're sure that's how it's going to be. The change of tribute, which was then adopted in the chief assemblies of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, had three principal points: To be more just, that is to say, to pay what each has to do, the second to be more progressive, and to this end they took several measures, and the third to be more efficient, more efficient to help the economic activity. It's very important to us, because there's no other way of creating employment, creating quality employment, and that's how the collection will go up, because we're going to record the benefits of the economic activity itself and the performances that come from the work departments. We said we wanted to be more efficient for the funding, and yesterday was the Basque Financial Council, where we had a report of the 2017s. We've seen how effective the agreement taken in 2013 has been and they've been involved in 2014. We've seen it. It wasn't the only factor, obviously, in order to bring good reform results. The development of economics has been a different factor, and, as has been said before, this agreement of the Cupid just received in Madrid has been in his own profits. So we have to be careful if we think that in 2018 the results of the collection will be the same, but that it was good. There were three important points between the measures we took then: to fight against the tax-violet, to fight against the tribute, and above all to change the rules of exchange in four different tributes (in what is contained in physical beings, in taxations, injuries, or social societies, in what is properly and in what is to be done, and in what is to be found in the legal and documented hand and hand.) These were the most important changes that had been taken. We know the results of the collection, and that's where we met yesterday, and the departments themselves said they'd get $729 million. We have learned in a series of governments in December, which, fortunately, is to be expected for the future; to the health system, to the euscal university, to the division of Childes, to the educational system, to the investments, to the state of the workers, and to the debtors. And we'll even reduce the debt. And also to keep some money for next year. I don't know about you, but a lot of us, in the days of fat cows, are cultured because money must be kept for the time when they are thin cows, and, in fact, we think that logic hasn't been wrong with us. But besides, Bollain, when we've had the budget discussion here and again, one point you've criticized in order not to admit the budget, is exactly how much money you've been paying for the budget. If, then, we would rather govern ourselves less, this condition is the only means of reducing it. We've agreed to a new measure. The engagement to evacuate appeared and reappeared, and before summer, in the three chief assemblies of the three countries, three of the stocks of the stocks were introduced the results of the collection. Mrs. Pindo, Rementeria will be in Madrid tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I don't know, but the day before yesterday, I'm not sure. So they first came to the conclusion, and they had the opportunity to ask questions which all the groups tried to solve, and they had the opportunity to ask for more information. Evaluation is over. We've made a collection of adaptations, especially in the taxation of societates, on the one hand, to promote economic activity, to reduce that nominal type. On the other hand, to enable you to raise a collection of money, to include minimal quotas, to reduce compensation for negative tax bases, to reduce the demilitaries, and to many other measures. And many other measures have been proposed to adapt our regulation to the ATAD direction of the European Union. In a few years we may be back making a change in the financial system, and a deeper change, but what was done for the moment has been successful, now there will be changes of measure, and we'll see what the result is, and if we evaluate that, we'll make a new plan again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. After that, the D.H.M., the chairman, Mr. Sub-Kee, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, President, members of the legislature, all good days. The plenary session that brings us together today is the fourth full monograph that this Parliament celebrates on taxation and takes place when only a little more than a year has passed since this parliamentary term. A legislature, however, in which in short time there have been several initiatives of impulse and control in this House related to taxation in the Basque Autonomous Community or with the eventuality of a tax reform. It should be acknowledged that at this beginning of the legislature, as the proposing groups have rightly pointed out in their letter of full request, the debates on the question of taxation have been recurrent. And this full monograph, in short, comes to be a corollary of all these initiatives. So recurrent have been the debates, that it will not be strange that my own words sound repetitive to them regarding previous positions. That is why, and first of all, I would like to reiterate that this Government, as it could not otherwise be, does not question the legitimacy of its approach and also, I can assure you, that this Government will not dodge this debate or any other debate in Parliament on this issue. I will focus my intervention on two distinct parts. First, a brief reference to the formal process of gestation of the agreed tax changes for the years to come in Euskadi, and later I will go on to explain to you the most visible content of the tax changes and their framing. You all know what I've said publicly about the Euská tax model, which has always given us the opinion of a modern, effective, just, direct, direct tax system, to develop the best public policy, and to help us win the economic establishment and the economy of jobs, and to guarantee the financial desire of every Basque organization. These same guidelines underpinned the agreement for fiscal reform that took place at the end of 2013 and that has been in force during these years. As a result of this tax reform, public services have been guaranteed in recent years and have helped to boost the economy and generate employment. And in this parliamentary term, the Basque Government intends to reaffirm these objectives and this is reflected in the government programme, including the commitment to put fiscal policy at the service of growth and solidarity, and an initiative with these terms: "To encourage from the Tax Coordination Body the updating of the precise fiscal regulations to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential public policies and services". This was our commitment and we have tried to fulfil it since the achievement of the broadest possible institutional and political consensus. I am very aware that this monographic debate has arisen as a result of the fiscal agreement reached at the end of November between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, an agreement which has been transferred to the general boards of the three historic territories for the purpose of approving the corresponding external rules, because that is where the decisions on taxation must be taken. As you know, the previous reform carried out in 2013 achieved a broad consensus for its formulation and has been implemented peacefully during these years. However, as was raised when the reform was formulated, and as reflected in our Government agreement, it was planned to carry out an evaluation of its results after a few years of operation and, if deemed appropriate, to update the tax legislation. And so it has been done. In this respect, I would like to point out that both the Basque Government and the three outlaws have agreed from the outset on the need to take three steps towards a possible tax reform. First, an in-depth analysis of the results of the reform adopted in 2013. Secondly, on the basis of that analysis, to propose a reform that links the two objectives that we have all adopted, namely to maintain public services and to boost economic growth with adequate financial sufficiency. Thirdly, to present and approve this proposal on the general boards of the historic territories with the broadest possible consensus. But before reaching consensus on these proposals, we also had to share an analysis and assessment of the results of the 2013 reform, as well as of the situation and prospects of the economy, as well as of the financial needs of the institutions in order to fulfil their commitments. We all thought the same of the investigation of the tax form of 2013, and the evaluation of the results, as well as of the state of our economy and the financial necessities of our future and institutions. All institutions agreed, both on the objectives to be met and on the working methodology. Thus, in April of last year, the outlaws of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa presented at their respective general meetings the assessment of tax reform for 2013. They also announced that they were working together on the design of a draft foral standard of tax measures that would adjust and improve the current foral standard. Finally, all this work has borne fruit. In any case, I must point out that the reforms agreed have first been agreed between the institutions and, subsequently, have also been agreed between the political parties: two of us are part of the Government and one third is in the opposition. That effort to reach an inter-institutional agreement, therefore, has been moved after a negotiation between political parties, as it could not otherwise be in the light of the arithmetic of the majorities and minorities operating in our institutions. And that is the first thing I want to highlight and give you the courage you deserve, because reaching the degree of agreement and consensus that we have achieved between institutions, first, and between very different parties, then, is neither a minor issue nor an easy issue to achieve. The agreement and agreement we have obtained between institutions and very different political parties is not of small importance, nor is it easy to obtain. Because, in my view, I doubt that any other agreement on this issue could be reached with a level of consensus higher than that achieved by the reform that is now being put forward at the general meetings of the historic territories. Therefore, from an institutional perspective and from a political perspective, they are agreements that will give stability to the country, creating an environment of certainty and confidence that, no one escapes, are basic factors for the positive development of the economy. I also welcome the fact that we have been able to reach an agreement which, in relation to the structural nuclear elements regulating the tax figures that are going to change, will have the same translation, practically, to all the historical territories. This implies a high degree of harmonisation. Because, in the end, the agreed reforms will enable us to meet the two main objectives that we have set ourselves in this area in the government programme and that have provided the framework for addressing the debate on this tax reform: on the one hand, they will promote the financial sufficiency of the Government and of the whole of the institutions in Euskadi with the aim of maintaining and improving public policies and the quality of public services, such as health, education and social protection; and, on the other hand, they will enable the maintenance and improvement of the competitiveness of our productive fabric. In addition, I must also recall that this update of tax legislation has been carried out following the recent amendment of the Law on Economic Concert, ratified by the Joint Commission held in July last year, with the variation of more than twenty articles that represents improvements in the capacity of tax management of outlaws and in the coordination between tax administrations. To conclude this first part of my speech, I would like to reiterate that, despite the final collection data for 2017, ratified yesterday by the Basque Council of Public Finances, and whose reading can open up ways of collecting micro-euphoria, I consider these tax measures agreed and in the process of adoption totally necessary, since the ghost of fiscal consolidation and budgetary stability continues to stalk and seek even more our income margin, at least in the coming years. At the same time, relaunching public investment without deteriorating competitiveness margins is really necessary for Euskadi's progress. Turning now to the second part of my speech, I must also reiterate that, in my opinion, the fiscal pact reached is, moreover, solid, realistic and positive, as it brings stability to Basque society and economy. I believe it is an agreement that will bring not only certainty and legal certainty but also sufficient resources to ensure that we can continue to provide public services and promote the economic revival of Euskadi. This agreement will lead to fixedness and legal security, as well as to the want of resources for institutions. The agreed tax reform incorporates measures in relation to the different taxes (companies, IRPF, assets, estates and donations). It is not my intention in this House to carry out a detailed analysis of them, even more so when they must be debated, as I said, in the general meetings of the historical territories, which are the competent bodies for their approval, although I would like to draw attention to certain demagogic and therefore false messages, which have been poured around this tax reform, and in some cases, without knowing the specific content of it. Thus, some voices have warned that the agreed reform is going to mean a decrease in our tax collection or that it is a reform sponsored by the Basque employer, as we have also heard this morning. The debate, both political and media, has focused on the nominal corporate tax rate, but we must not fall into simplistic tax approaches. Taxation, as has also been said here this morning, must be analysed in its entirety. Thus, for example, within the scope of the IRPF, we continue to share the objective of not making the tax burden fall on the middle and lower classes. And with regard to corporate tax, we should not sin as reductionists or simply examine the round figures of nominal rates, when the collection of this tax depends on several factors: the nominal rate, the taxable base, deductions, the number of companies, the results of companies, the control of circumvention or the effective rate. And if we analyze the tax as a whole, the valuation is positive, because we can count on more investment, with more companies and companies more competitive. With this reform of the company tax, the aim is to ensure the balance between an impulse which must try to encourage economic activity and generate quality employment, on the one hand, and to guarantee the main function of the tax, which is to collect, on the other. Because the nominal rate of the tax does not correspond to the effective rate, as you well know, that is, with what companies actually pay for their profits. The nominal rate is altered by another set of measures covered by corporate tax, which are the ones that allow tax collection to be increased or ultimately reduced. Moreover, this reform of corporate tax introduces other measures that follow the current European trends on fairer and more efficient taxation. For example, the Basque Government, from the Department of Finance and Economics, has provided a series of measures aimed at avoiding tax evasion and evasion, erosion of tax bases and artificial transfer of business profits, following the recommendations of the OECD and the European Union and aligning ourselves with the rest of Europe's more modern countries. My Euskon has made a contribution of various measures for tax-traying, purchase of the most established bases, and a malicious transfer of corporate revenues. Thus, for example, we can cite the revision of the articles on the elimination of double taxation, new amendments to the patent box regime and other measures such as limiting the compensation of negative tax bases. In addition, the application of deductions and the investment exemption are limited only to fixed assets for the purpose of the business activity of the company. On the other hand, the new external rules aim to adapt even before the mandatory date of transposition, in 2024, to the new EU directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. As I have told you, in addition to increasing collection, it is also essential to encourage economic activity. Measures have therefore been agreed to bring the job creation deduction into line with its link to the quality of employment and salary or the inclusion of the necessary regulation for the creation of funds to encourage innovation. These are just a few examples of the small letter of this reform, which ultimately cushions the negative impact that the reduction in nominal rates could have on SMEs from 28 % to 24 % for the general rate or from 24 % to 20 % for SMEs. Reduction that has also been agreed to in two stages: one part in 2018 and another part in 2019. And it is true, yes, that the world of the company had requested a reduction of the nominal rate, but had not requested an increase of the minimum rate, and it has also been approved. It had not requested the elimination of certain deductions, which had also been approved. It had not requested the limitation of negative tax bases or the limitation of financial expenditure or of certain deductions, and such measures had also been approved. In addition, we value it as we value it, we must also be aware that the reduction of the nominal rate can generate positive expectations in companies that allow them to be set up in the territory, on the one hand, and boost activity and employment, on the other. In short, the measures that have been agreed will allow the Euskadi to have a nominal attractive corporate tax rate, at the same time as a higher effective rate and thus increase the tax collection. In any case, the evolution of corporate tax collection should not be attributed solely to the tax measures that can be taken, since the main thing for increasing collection is precisely that these companies have profits. Therefore, this reform has sought to balance the corporate tax balance towards a fairer, more modern and in line with European anti-circumvention standards, but without losing attraction or collection. This reform balances the balance of the societate pigtails, and conforms to a more modern and more modern prosecutor and the standard of Europe against the eusus, but without losing its attraction and its collection of money. Because it must be said, clearly, that this reform does not have to entail a loss of collection. It doesn't have to be that way, and I'm convinced it's not going to be that way. Because if the measures envisaged contribute to an increase in economic activity, and this in turn contributes to an increase in employment and the quality of employment, tax collection will not be adversely affected. On the contrary, the combination of the positive developments envisaged in our economy with the tax changes agreed will enable Basque companies to undertake processes of reversal or to undertake dynamics of wage adequacy, for example, which will also have a positive impact on collection, thereby consolidating and optimizing, where appropriate, the essential public policies and services which this Government is firmly committed to safeguarding, in particular in the areas of health, education or social cohesion policies. From my point of view, therefore, it is unsustainable to say that a reform which for the Basque institutions will entail a greater availability of resources will involve budget cuts, as has been said, because that is not true. And I don't think it's a question of talking about rising or lowering tax pressure either. The fiscal pressure will be what it has to be to meet the objectives that are being pursued. Euskadi must remain a serious country, so we need security and legal certainty. And a rigorous and consensual fiscal policy must be presided over by responsibility, certainty and trust. For the responsibility we have shown by preserving stability and avoiding turning the fiscal issue into a bold weapon between political parties and institutions. For the certainty that it is necessary to have promoted the updating of the precise fiscal rules in order to encourage economic activity, innovation and employment, and to safeguard essential social policies and public services. For confidence as a fundamental element of stability for the economic system, for confidence in the path of consensus towards a new agreement. For the confidence in the tax revenue scenario approved at the Basque Finance Council with the unanimous agreement of all institutions, for the confidence in a scenario that combines the balance that allows public services to be guaranteed and further improves business competitiveness to create employment. Both the Basque Government and the outlaws, as well as the political parties that have signed this tax agreement, share the objectives that any adjustment or improvement of our tax system must pursue, and we share the need to reach them with the greatest possible degree of institutional and political consensus. And we also share the view that any change in fiscal regulations is done in a harmonized way for the whole country, in order to achieve the necessary inter-institutional financial sufficiency, improve the Basque social welfare system, revive the economy and create employment. And all these measures that have been agreed between the institutions and also between the political parties represent a compendium of possible, viable and real measures. I believe that we have made progress, always from consensus and agreement, towards a more modern and homologable taxation of the countries in our environment. For, as I said in this place in December, the agreement is, in my opinion, a good one, a good form of tribute, an agreement and a necessary reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. We'll go round the answers, and together, representatives of the Podemos, Mr. Bollain, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u13	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Good morning again, all of you. Mrs. Gorospe said that you keep money for when there are skinny cows. But how do you keep the money? Multiplying the debt for 18 in 10 years, for example? Is that the way you guys keep the money? I don't know. And then they said that the PNV respects the agreements – I tell you, where is that forum to bring to this Parliament the debate on taxation, agreement taken in 2013? – and, in addition, "to do so before tax changes are made". Have there been any tax and tax changes to that forum and to that debate in Parliament (because we brought it between Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu)? The Basque Nationalist Party, zero. Then, Mr. Damborenea, what am I going to tell you? For we have different ways of understanding issues such as social justice or redistribution of wealth. After all, we have a completely different perception. I am a left-wing person; you are a liberal person, but, well, realize that the difference is not just with me. For me, for example, the redistribution of wealth is an essential element for justice and social cohesion; you prefer, in a liberal way, to lower taxes. But there's no difference between you and me. As I was saying, I am not alone, but Mr Azpiazu himself, who, well, does not look like a communist radical either, much less, in this section agreed with me. And he said that "the Basque administrations must put in place all the instruments that we have in our hands in the field of taxation in order to increase the collection" and that "having in mind that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is no greater than in Spain and is less than in Europe, one might think that there is a way to do something". What happens is that Mr Azpiazu has done completely the opposite. Because you said the differential is not alone or mostly in corporate tax, but there is a big differential there; the differential is 7.3 percent, more or less. But if we put corporate tax numbers on the table, objectively, the tax burden on corporate tax in Euskadi accounts for 1.7% of GDP, 1.7%; in the Spanish State, 2.4% of GDP and in Spain, 2.6% of GDP. That is to say, in Euskadi we are 0.9 percentage points below the EU average with regard to the tax burden on corporate tax, and there is a very large way to do something, as Mr Azpiazu said, but which he has not finally done. Five states in the European Union with lower fiscal pressure than Euskadi: Ireland, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Latvia. Are those the countries we want to look like? I don't think so. Another example, in 2007, corporate tax contributed 14,7 % of the total collection of Basque hacienda; in 2016 only 7,7 %. And then they tell us that the reform is good, Mrs Castelo, that the reform has been good. Well, let's put – you've given me some lessons here – let's put the numbers on the table. The Basque Public Finance Council in October 2017 set the collection forecast at EUR 14,367 million. It has been 106 million less than what we have actually collected, which has been 14,473 million euros, but 937 of which are short-term due to VAT adjustments, of which 600 are due in turn to the liquidation of the quota, which has increased in 2017 by 70% of VAT adjustments. Therefore, the collection, without Cup effect, nor that growth in the total VAT adjustments, is approaching, instead of the EUR 14,473 million, close to EUR 13,536 million. If we compare this data with the data of the highest collection so far, which is 2007, which is 13,772 million euros, we see that the collection in 2017 has been 236 million euros lower. Let's not play games, let's not cheat, let's not cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, let's cheat, So, are you sure the tax reform has worked well? Do not tell me that we are doing well, when it has not been collected in real terms or what was collected 10 years ago. Another part that's even more important. Tax revenues in real terms have not been recovered compared to 2007, the year of highest collection so far, since if we compare the revenues of Basque farms in 2007, the 13.772 million euros, with the evolution of prices until 2017, according to Eustat himself, we should raise 15.752 million euros this year, and not the 14.473 million euros. That is to say, we raise some EUR 1.3 billion less than what should really be collected. Let's not trap the loner. And with regard to the reforms that you are carrying out right now in the Chambers, it should be noted that with the information we have, the objectives of sufficiency of collection, equity and redistribution are getting further and further away. The paradigmatic example of the corporate tax we are talking about can be given. Its approach is to reduce it from 28 to 26 and from 26 to 24 for large companies. What does this mean? Well, you're going to collect less than you could and should. You are proposing a reduction in collection, for example, in Bizkaia, which is the largest estate, by 42 million in 2019 and another 42 million in 2020, in total 84 million. Then we do that trill game and we say that the modification of deductions will allow us to enter more, which at the moment is to be seen. But, Mrs Castelo, you are also about to see how these deductions are going to behave in the future. And you're about to see if the measurements have enough basis or not. I do not say this, Mr Bizkaia's own Member of the Finance Committee acknowledges that it is not possible to measure the economic effects of all the measures in the preliminary draft, because we do not know what developments they may have in the future, and that we are working on the basis of past exercises and some of these measures did not exist. Of course, but what we do know, according to the estimates also provided, is that 1,000 large companies will cease to enter the Bizkaia Treasury for corporate tax 69.2 million euros in two years. 82% of the loss of collection will be through large companies, i.e. large companies will benefit from this rebate. What a surprise! Right, Mr. Damborenea? What a surprise! It will be that their own reports, those of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party say that their tax reform benefits those above. What does all this mean in the end? Because in 2017, approximately EUR 1 billion less was collected through corporate tax than in 2007, and today, with a similar generation of wealth and similar economic dynamism, we will not reach or reach those figures a decade ago, and we will not get, precisely because of this, gifts that you make to employers and large companies. The conclusion that Mr Rementeria and Mr Confebask twisted Mr Azpiazu's arm not only materializes that we are not going to have more income, but that they are going to stop collecting tens or hundreds of millions of euros that are essential to pursue the purposes of sufficient income, equity, efficiency and redistribution of wealth. Mrs Castelo, you were talking to me about an amendment a year ago that totally decafeinated an original GNP. But you, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, have the capacity to bring a full monograph to this Parliament, don't you? And you said, Mrs. Castelo, that you didn't understand how we called this plenary, unless we came to something else, and you said, "I think they're coming to something else. You're very late, Mr. Bollain." I will read the government agreement textually: "We will promote the completion of a full fiscal monograph in the Basque Parliament prior to the approval of any tax changes". PNV, PES. What do you expect, Mrs Castelo, to comply with your government pact now, which is when tax reform comes, not a year ago? Or is it that they only fulfill when the PNV orders to agree with the People's Party? You also said that we could agree in general terms. I hope that today you will vote in favour of our resolutions, which endorse these broad lines of a just, progressive fiscal policy... And so we extend our hand to them, once again. And then he was talking to me about realism, telling me to try to add up. Of course I'm trying to add up. But if Euskal Herria Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the Socialist Party of Euskadi join us, Mrs Castelo! You know, but no, you were telling us we didn't have to change our speech. No, no, What you have to do is change allies. Do not ally yourselves with the right, ally yourselves with the progressive forces and so we can carry on your electoral program, ours and that of Euskal Herria Bildu. But you know there are pictures worth more than a thousand words, Mrs. Castelo. And today, I am now ending, February 14, the day of the lovers, let me make an allusion to love, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. We encourage you to be open in your relationships. There is no traditional relationship with the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party. Do not resign yourself to a subordination relationship with the right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, try, dare, let yourselves be carried away by your heart, by your progressive feelings and experience, try another kind of more open and healthy relations, more consistent with your feelings and, above all, more consistent with your principles. Please choose the progressive forces of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u15	Good morning again. The truth is that I was surprised to hear some of the speakers say that the proponents did not come to have a fiscal debate, but that they did, because I did not hear them having a fiscal debate either. I have at least put proposals on the table; they with disrespect, enough. Some more than others, as always, always the same and the same. Okay. Let's try to go by order. Mr. Damborenea, I with you, the truth is, look, you and I know each other and we know what we're all about. You're right-handed! And you come down here and defend right-wing postulates! Well, ole, I think it's great! But you know perfectly well that I am left-wing and, therefore, we defend different postulates. And I say again that the IRPF has already dropped in Spain. You know as well as I do why, don't you? Or was it that there were no general elections and it was an election act? An election event, Mr Damborenea, and from Europe they told them to see what you were about. You tell me there are fewer companies than in 2008. It seems to me that the number has gone a long way; I think it has taken the state's reference. But, well, it's normal, coming from the People's Party, to take the state's reference. And again tell me the usual, and that's what you've already put on the PNV and the PSE on the table about the IRPF: "We want money to be in citizens' pockets." Of course, we're talking about raising wages, or not talking about it, because that's another costal's flour, as a friend of mine says. Right, Mr. Damborenea? He sets me as an example to Madrid, where there is no property tax, no inheritance tax... Why haven't you set me a direct example to the Bahamas Islands or any of these? Because in the end you're the one who wants to take me. He tells me "it's that with his proposals the rich are leaving." Nothing, we become a tax haven and here peace and then glory, Mr. Damborenea. And you'll be delighted with life, and the rich don't even want to tell you, delighted with life. But that's not the problem. The problem is that we have different models of society. When you say that we must give back to the citizens what they have lost or what they have contributed in the crisis, you forget the more than 42 billion that we have lost all the citizens of your Spanish State because you made a rescue to the bank, to those friends that you had in different savings boxes within the Spanish State. And there we have a lot of open causes: Mediterranean Box, Castilla La Mancha Box, Madrid Savings Box, etc. But, well, there you go. But fiscal debate... You've made me zero potato. Mrs. Castelo, I understand your position. You have to come here and say that you do what the Socialist Party always has to do. "The Socialists are happy because we are the only left that guarantees fair taxation and stability." Canvas, cloth what you have come to say here, when you said that not lowering the corporation tax was your red line, and in a week you had changed it; you, who approved a tax of the great fortunes in Gipuzkoa and as soon as you offered them warm armchairs, you went and removed it. Do you come to me to say that you are the left that guarantees fair taxation? Come on, Mrs. Castle! I understand it's his style: to come here, to tell others that we come to apologize for not having agreed on budgets... No, Mrs. Castelo, that's nothing! I have already told you in the budget debate, and I do not think we need to get back into it. You'll know why you signed it, how many seats have you agreed to split up. There's no EH Bildu coming in today or ever, Mrs. Castelo. "Tax reform is good and works." It is so good and works that until the last year not a single exercise – not one – has fulfilled its own collection forecasts. Moreover, in 2015 and 2016, in short, more than 1 billion deviations. And this year you put on the medal because you have achieved the goals. Obviously, I said that in my first speech, because they set more reasonable targets, because they knew what was coming. And of course, when the economy grows, it has nothing new to collect more, because the economy itself gives it to you, not because you put fiscal measures that make the collection grow. They don't talk about the nominal type because that's not their debate. Jolines, for their own sake, were against the Basque Nationalist Party from June to October debating the nominal corporate tax rate! But of course, then what had to come came, you went out, then Confebask came out, and where I said Diego, I mean Diego, and here so many friends. That's what you're doing, Mrs. Castle. The interconnection between parliaments... Come on, yeah... Wasn't there any previous proposal, right, in the Tax Coordination Body, of a parliament governed by EH Bildu? There was it, but you and the PNV had taken care of dilating it sine die, because you once again, as always, wanted to wear the medal. And again with the collection. Look, GDP has risen in the last 10 years by more than 3 billion euros (3,000!), and collection has risen by just EUR 100 million. Are you really telling me that your tax counter-reform has brought budgetary sufficiency, increased revenue from collection...? Really? 3 billion GDP growth and they have only managed to raise 100 million more! Man, please go to math 1st! Miss Gorospe, first: You like to say things like that. I am a member of the Basque Alcharcy, of course, and I carry him with great honour, and you tell me that we opposed ourselves. Mrs Gorospe, you forget that the company tax was changed by a PNV deputy general by decree, against the opinion of the Gipuzkoa General Councils and against the opinion of the Finance deputy, who was, at that time, a member of Eusko Alkartasuna. And you forget that you, along with the PSE, eliminated the property tax that was in Gipuzkoa for two years, unlike the rest of the territories, because EA maintained the property tax and you removed it with the PSE by decree. So, don't come to me with stories of the past, because, although I'm something younger than you, I know history, too. And today they both made the same mistake. "We want to converge on the types of Europe." Not at all, not at all! I have always talked about European fiscal pressure, but, of course, you like to talk a lot more about the type of companies and so on. And they're cheating on us. I loved "the right and the progressives." I was told by a companion that "the right and the progressives" is like the devil's best trick. Do you know what the devil's best trick was? He went to convince the world he didn't exist, but we all know he's there. And that's what happens to the right. And you're right-handed. At least those gentlemen say it, but you get me down here and talk to me about progressiveism. Man, please! Man, please! You agree with the right and are delighted with the right. You are the ones who have agreed on the Stability Law, you are the ones who have agreed on the rule of spending, you are the ones who make all kinds of right-wing economic policies, because you want it, of your own free will. Hatu politico beats Egyptian due. Ez zituzte inork horretara behartzen. Zuek Egyptian duzue! But then it turns out they come to Euskadi and we come to us the deputy general of Álava crying because "It is that the surplus, you see, by the rule of spending we have to divert it to debt". But you've done it! But if you approved it with the green button in the Congress of Deputies! And it's that they always come to us with the same, they always come to us with the same. This is where we have to decide the plot and the defense line. Of course, we have to decide here. The tax-reform, if we really want to be advanced and really effective, we have to decide here. And then the trap that a few months ago we voted with the People's Party against the monograph, which has done exactly both. It is clear that the Government is very well coordinated, because the papers are passed. You see, in this plune we ordered a special committee to make public discussions and to encourage participation, and you refused to do it, and you made the monographic table stand up as an excuse. That wasn't the original attitude, it was just an excuse. Today we're going to ask for public discussion again. Would you agree? Would you agree to promote the cooperation of the revenueal policy by opening the debates? I'm afraid not. I'm afraid it's not because you, once again, want to do what you always do, what you've always been doing, and it's that you want to bind us. Eta bukatzera noa, president. On the subject of the trip of the deputy general from Bizkaia to Madrid. It goes tomorrow, yes, it goes tomorrow, with 40 companies and investment funds. Do you really want me to believe that you're going to say, "Sirs, we've approved a tax reform for you to pay more"? Do you really want me to believe that? But what do you think, that we fell off a guindo? You guys are gonna... No, Mrs. Castelo, you've fallen off a guindo a long time ago, because you're doing your homework to the right. You're doing your homework on the right. Look, you go there to say that you have achieved a better, more competitive tax reform, more I don't know what, when in fact, if you put them the simultaneous translator that was used – do you remember, in "Vaya Semanita" of that simultaneous translator?–, I would say: "Lords, Bizkaia, Araba and Gipuzkoa are now a little bit more the tax paradise that you wanted." That's what you're going to tell them. And do they pretend that society thinks they're going to pay more taxes, but that they're going to do a public act in Madrid to tell Madrid entrepreneurs to come to Euskadi because they're going to pay more taxes? Obviously, the People's Party will be in charge of Catalonia, which, if it does not like what comes out here, will already make a new decree for companies to leave Euskadi as they have left Catalonia, by decrees of the People's Party. And so you continue, trying to deceive society by measures that you know to be sure that only, alone, only benefit your friends.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u17	Mrs Castelo, it is clear that we are not going to agree with you in charging us with the Constitution, the Economic Concert and in taking away from you the powers – which are indeed historical rights of the outside territories – to pass them on to this Parliament. It is clear that we will never agree with you there, but neither here nor elsewhere. In any case, the purpose of fiscal policy is to guarantee public services, which is what you have told us. But of course, that's the collection. And we do differ in something, because we say that the first thing to do is first to know how much I have and then how much I spend. But you do make another approach that is different, but that coincides more with these gentlemen. It's, "How much I'm going to spend, I need this. How do I get it out? Well, we'll see about that. We're going up." And that's a bad fiscal policy because you collect more when you fiscally encourage economic activity to grow, not when you suffocate. And that's why we stand out for you there too. We do believe that taxation should promote employment and promote the growth of available family income, so that people live better. But taxation and everything for people, that's why we're here. There are others who think more about the Administration and the expenditure of the Administration. But... Secondly, let us see, and I will also tell Mrs Gorospe here that, man, I am not going to repeat the debate that we had in December on the fiscal pact that we had reached, because we already had it with these gentlemen in December, and we did not have it in January because there were no plenary sessions. We've got it now, in February, and I guess we'll stick with the same thing on the subject. Now, I am going to say one thing. Of course there will be companies that will pay less corporate tax. Of course the approach we made was that! Which doesn't mean you don't collect anymore! That I also bet with Mr Bollain, if he wants, within a year and a half, because of course, here we are attending a debate, at least perplexing with reforms and counter-reforms: the fiscal pact that we have reached will come into force on 1 January this year, will affect companies in their statements next year, in 2019. It is just that we should also see what we are talking about or what we want to talk about when talking about older or smaller collections. Everyone knows that a tax reform up to almost two years has no real effect on people. Now, it is an announcement of what is going to happen and it does give companies stability to know what legal framework they are going to move in. But I value that agreement. How am I not going to put it into value, if the initial proposal put forward by the government partners was to leave the tax as it was, remove deductions and make business situations worse! Because, Mrs Pinedo, companies don't leave by decree of the PP, no, no. Companies do not go by decree of the PP. And in Gipuzkoa you must have learned something, why companies are leaving, why taxpayers are leaving. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Data from the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, taxpayers in 2014 of its famous big fortune tax, 8,093; in 2015, 7,448 (less than 645). Big fortunes that have either stopped being big fortunes or have taken them elsewhere and now pay taxes elsewhere. And this has not been a PP decree, this has been Bildu's fiscal policy in Gipuzkoa, endorsed, that is, by the Socialist Party, which is the agreement they had reached. And let's see, Mrs Gorospe, the study that you've taken from me is the same one that got us, by the way, those gentlemen to say that we didn't have to touch the corporate tax rates. I don't know who did it, but I have here the Madrid tables of the IRPF. The minimum rate is 19%, 19 because you tell me that according to that report we have the lowest rates. In Bizkaia, in the 23rd. 19% against 23. Listen, three more points, on the lowest rents, on the first stretch, and from here you show me all the studies you want and we talk about what you want, because if I take the savings rents, in Madrid is on the 19, the lowest, and here we start on the 20. So, I don't know what studies... Now, that's right, here some are giving the feeling that this is a tax paradise, the tax paradise must be..., that at the time it was until the nationalists came to rule and rule, because, of course, before they paid less taxes here. Moreover, I remember, not so many years ago, that the inheritance tax was at zero so that those great fortunes that some say came from Spain here. Now it's backwards, it's zero in Madrid and here we have it taxed, so if we also put the property tax that the gentlemen of the left, the extreme left or whatever they want to call themselves, we make a phenomenal collection: zero. Zero. That's what you were asking us. To Mr Bollain, I don't know if it's Valentine's Day or Ash Wednesday, or both and there's a lot of ash around here, but I repeat, I'll bet you in a year and a half a meal, a dinner, whatever you want, that we're going to collect more on corporate tax. I'll make you the bet, then you do whatever you want. And Mrs Pinedo, we have different models, of course. Yours is to impoverish people, of course. "No, this one, as it has more, I'll take it off." Yes, yes, to impoverish people. He says, "It's not that we're Robin Hood here." You go from Robin Hood: impoverishing people. Look, ours is not to impoverish anyone, ours is to make everyone better, starting with those who have less. Yes, yes, yes, and lowering taxes to those who earn less, of course, and lowering the type, for example, like Madrid, three points to those who earn less, of course, to those who do not reach 20,000 euros, of course. That is our proposal. But we're not Robin Hood, what we don't want is to take money from people. We want people to pay just to maintain essential, basic and necessary services, not unnecessary, or to spend a lot of money on things that are useless to us. And in this budget of this government there are many clear examples, yes, yes, starting with public television and what it costs us, yes, yes, yes, yes, and ending with many other things. Yusted said we're not having a tax debate... Man, we are, we are asking you that we want to lower the income tax on natural persons, adjust it to the average. Are we very...? Well, let's get it right for the average of the rest of Spain. I'm not going to tell you Madrid, a tax haven now where there are. Of course, it's Madrid, now it turns out it's a tax haven. Come on, you've got to make fun of it, listen up! Well, let's see if we match something and grow up as Madrid grows in number of companies and jobs, which we don't do here. Someone will wonder why companies prefer to go to Madrid and not come here, won't they? Don't you ask him? No, you're escaped, I'm sorry, 650 senior Gipuzkoa taxpayers are thrown out, and you're not worried. What he wants is for us to move him to Bizkaia and Álava, to see if the same thing happens to us. That's his approach. Look, it's just that we're not about the work, it's that we want them to pay, but they pay here, yeah, and that's why we lower the taxes that everyone else pays. And the property tax, I told you, in Europe... Hey, Putin... If they point it out to us, Mr Depardieu is exiled to Russia so as not to pay property in France. Is there no Russia either? Why would it be? We want everyone to pay, to pay their own, but we understand that we raised taxes four years ago, the IRPF, to the people, and now that the collection goes well, the economic prospects go well, if the parties that give stability here and in Spain are able to continue to do so, they will go better, we will have more collection, and it is time to start to value that we have to return to the people it is fiscal effort that has made. And that's done by lowering the IRPF.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u19	Mr Damborenea, Mr Bollain doesn't like the risks. I already bet you before you that corporation tax wasn't going to lower your collection and you didn't dare accept my bet. And now he's doing it with his head, like saying, "You're getting used to crossing bets on me, and I don't like this." And he doesn't like it because he knows, as much as he handles data, that they're making a demagogic speech about what the corporate tax collection is going to be. But I used to say it on my first shift, even though someone gets itchy when things are said here and everything is altered in the gallery and to say real barbarities, because I believe that in my first shift I have not disrespected anyone. I, what I have done has been to expose and logically, logically, look for those inconsistencies that I can come to find. Because I'm a person who didn't do math and who does give me the story, but what I have is an impressive readability and a good memory. And, therefore, when I am asked for coherence in the positions or in the topic this, then, I usually look for data to know if others have or are legitimized to call me incoherent. So, it's funny to me that someone comes out here and tells me that the corporation tax we've dropped because I don't know what warm chairs... Look, you answer me, Mrs. Pinedo, how many warm armchairs you have in Navarre, because you have almost the same corporate tax as we do, and then I can understand that you... as you say in my house, "You believe the thief that you are all of your condition," just like you there have come to that agreement, which remains for us as a tax haven... You asked me what is left for us as a tax haven; for we have Navarra, because the actual type of moment is at 15% and you are there in the government and it does not seem to matter to you. But, well, it's usually said that sometimes sayings are good for answering it. Then Mr Bollain tells me that we failed to comply with the issue of the forum and the monograph, that we were not accepted by the monograph in February last year because that decapitated the original proposal put forward by you. At that time Podemos justified his vote against – I don't know if you have to remember it all your life – because you said that this was not a serious debate, nor an appropriate format. Today is the most appropriate format, meaning a breach of the government pact, etc. When you came with that proposal for an amendment we presented you with the opportunity, from the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, we presented you with the opportunity to make a full monographic. But they didn't care, they didn't care. Mrs Pinedo, they don't give us the same speech, it's that reality is reality and Mrs Gorospe sees it and I see it. What happens to you is that he lives in another world and sees everything under another prism, and that we've been detecting here for quite some time. Therefore, do not talk to me about non-compliance with the full monograph. You did not want to debate in this rostrum in February 2017 and then looked for other formulas (a motion, an inquiry, a question), and until you have been forced into the next budget debate you have not arrived here a full monograph that, I'm sorry... If I'm not making it up! I'm just making a compilation of the history we've had recently, over the past year. And you can insist and the Finance Minister has tried to give the data on the content of the reform and so on, but it is that you give the same data as you give, Mr Azpiazu, because even though you have said that measures have been introduced against tax evasion, to prevent the erosion of tax bases, that no one has been asked to raise the minimum rates – i.e. that the employer did not ask for that – that deductions, compensations have been limited and that the collection is going to increase..., and not because you say so: because the technical and economic reports that accompany the outside rules, that they may or may not like. And I didn't do math first, but I've already said I'm pure lyrics and I did Latin and Greek, you know, those things that I don't know if they serve me anymore. But since I do not think that citizens should be affected by data, all I can say is that in the estimates presented in the public institutions by technical reports – not presented to the press by Mr Bollain or by Mrs Pinedo, who is not accompanied by any report – what we are going to say is that the total collection in two years of company tax, according to the forecast they have, will be increased by EUR 124 million exclusively in Bizkaia. So, as we have patience – I told you on my first shift – we will wait until the collections of the 18th and 19th arrive to put them on your forehead. And then you will tell us, as Mrs Pinedo told us today, "No, the 13th reform has not affected the collection." No, no, if we hadn't made the 13th reform, would Mrs Pinedo have told me that the collection would have been the same? If we hadn't introduced the measures of the 13th, would you be able to tell me, that you've done math first and that you also know history, you could tell me that without the reform of the 13th the collection today would be the same with the improvement of the economy? Do you want to tell me that there was no measure to improve the collection? Man, you can say it in this rostrum. I, who have been during that reform in General Councils and we have had the economic reports and there I have been able to discuss with someone who surely..., I don't know if I had made savings, but I did understand taxes, and we have made it very clear that the measures introduced in the 13 have favored the possibility of maintaining public resources and having the public benefits that citizens need. And in that it is true, Mr Damborenea, we differ: to you, what interests you is less taxes and return, and to us, what interests us is, through taxation, to achieve redistribution. I do not know if you understand what that is, but redistribution means that those needs that citizens have are met and covered, in our view, from public administrations. We like that governance, we don't see it as spending, we see it as investment. And I have said this many times here: aid to the family, aid to dependence, health without co-payments, education accessible to all and with scholarships, social protection for all those who need it, that is for us fiscal policy: getting enough income to guarantee sufficient public services and citizens' rights. You are in another model, but it is also true that you have been able – which have not been others who come here from "lefts" – to reach an agreement by giving in to your positions and making us also, logically, giving in to ours, without passing, Mr Bollain, no red line, absolutely no. And I made it clear to him in my first intervention and in the other. And it's funny to me because you've finished your argument – and I'm going to finish mine because I don't need any more time to tell you what I think has become clear to you in the first intervention – you make me an allegation that today is Valentine's Day, hey, and you've given me a feeling, here, to the whole socialist bench, of being up and up right now, because you've given me the feeling that you were trying to us. [[Barres]] Let's see, I've heard you say..., you told me there are pictures worth more than a thousand words. I tell him that there is another saying much better for this moment, and it is that "Acts are love and not good intentions". Therefore, the next time you hold your hand, hold it sincerely and try from your left position to influence together with us the public policies that are exercised in the Basque Autonomous Community. He's lost two opportunities, and there's another saying that he's also very good at here: "There's not two without three" or "The third one's the winner." Let's see which one we have to apply to you in the 2019 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u21	Yeah. Damborenea jauna, in the pact, in the agreement that we have adopted, in addition to the measures, the updates that are currently under discussion at the general meetings, we also agree that in the course of 2020, in a few years' time, the tax system, the various taxes, will be analysed, and will be considered and discussed whether there is a need for reform in the various taxes, including the IRPF. I insist, what we agree is that, not now, not now, but on the horizon of a few years, we will address that debate as a result of data. And you in relation to the type have done the same thing they do with the corporate tax rate. Both the personal income tax and corporate tax are two taxes so complex that they need and require a comprehensive analysis of all that is. That is why I have always insisted on the complexity of the tax. Fat cows and skinny cows. Bollain, zuk aipatu duzu "How can you appeal to fat cows and skinny cows when you have been in debt for so many years, when the government." But, of course, precisely because of this policy, because during the fat cows and when there was a possibility the Basque Government took very good care and control of their accounts, so that it had minimal indebtedness, and when they have been badly given it has had the capacity to indebtedness and to move forward in a situation and in a very complex financial economic context, thanks to the soundness of the accounts. By their attitude of control in the time of fat cows we have been able to resist in times of weak cows; and now, in those years and exercises in which the results are good, we have to return, one, to try to heal the accounts and, two, to have certain remnants in order to be able to face expenses, investments that can arise in later years, precisely by the logic of fat cows, weak cows. Horregatik. Hori da jarrati izan den politicaka. Mrs. Pindo, nostros sí hablamos de sure sueldos. Yeah. We say, yes, that wages are to be raised; and we say that employment must be produced; and we say that the employment which is produced must be of quality; and we say that all this must be effected, that the state and economic activity of the population of our country must be strengthened, and that the development of the work is connected with the development of economic activity; and we say that it is necessary to assist the economic activity and the Basques, in order that their affection may be as great as possible, so that their salary may be raised in this country, so that, consequently, in order to increase their pay, and to increase their money in this country, as a consequence of which they may be able to live in this state, it will therefore become better. And you said: the collection of money which has been completed has not been made by the decisions made, since the economic activity and economic cycle have contributed. But the taxes taken are also highly connected with the economic activity, because they can or may be hindered. They can help to recover, or they may be hindered in making economic development. It is not only – and it is very important – to help promote and boost the country's economic activity so that it can really generate employment, so that companies are really in a position to improve the working and wage conditions of people who are working. And all the measures that are being taken must go in that direction, in the sense of contributing positively to that and that at no time will they be a hindrance, difficulties on the way, so that between companies, among people working in those companies, among those who are in institutions in the various public administrations, among all of us we can contribute positively for Euskadi to move forward. Horretarako behar da egonkortasuna, horretarako behar da akordioa. You mention it in your interference, and you make two petitions, chief physician: and the second, you require, that we do not make use of this controversy in political matters, in such a manner as to lay down the pink weapon, or both. Ojalá is responsible for your requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The meeting stops at this moment until three o'clock. And there'll be time between one and a quarter of an hour to enter the Book of Parliament. Yeah? Then, if we need more time, we'll give it to you for the time being, but for the time being, that's how it is. Hiruretan buelta, éta orderu bat eta laurdena arte ebazpenak aurkezteko. At three o'clock, I turn; until one and four o'clock to present motions for resolutions. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-eight. The meeting began again at three o'clock in the afternoon, at six o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u23	We'll go back to the meeting. The legal teams, in the order presented by the resolution proposal, will have a 20-minute time to talk. First, Mr. Dambore's representative of the Popula team has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President, I promise you I won't be 20 minutes. Our motions for resolutions, of course, are in line with the approach we have taken this morning and, of course, begin by appreciating positively the fiscal agreement we reached with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party last autumn, which is now being dealt with at the general meetings of the three territories. And secondly, we, after what has fallen and what has rained – especially in December and January – on the Economic Concert, want to re-value the Economic Concert as the best and most effective instrument that regulates the financial and tax relations of the historical territories with the rest of Spain, and that is why it is important for us to matify again and for this Parliament to show its support for the Economic Concert once again. And the rest of our proposals, as it could not otherwise be, are geared towards what we have put forward from the beginning. A very important tax effort has been required of Basque families, and we understand that it is beginning to be the time to return that tax effort, and that is why we are proposing that we start thinking about lowering the tax of the IRPF, especially to middle income. And it also seems important to us, because one of the problems that this country has, of course, is that of the population, demography, the pyramid of ageing, we understand that aid to families with children, aid to conciliation – which we are talking about working people in conciliation and, therefore, contributions – must have a much greater reflection on the income tax of natural persons and, at best, on the direct aids of the Basque Government, because in the end, those who contribute the income, those who have problems to reconcile are those people and not, of course, those who do not contribute, those who do not work or those who do not work, if they do so in black. But we understand that this is not where Basque institutions have to focus their objectives, but, precisely, to really help families that really have these problems, and if we want to encourage and improve, both the children we have, who are few, and to improve and promote the quality of dependency that families provide, it is clear that this has to have a much more important tax reflection than it has at the moment. And then we also want to raise, and we have raised, the question of savings income. If it's important for a country to have savings, because that means you don't need to borrow money outside that country, that's why you have to encourage it. And it is clear that there is only one measure that encourages it, that is tax measures; and if we have a taxation on savings worse than elsewhere, of course, it will not do us any better. When you are thinking that pension funds, EPSVs can invest in Basque companies, if we really want them to invest, maybe that cut we made four years ago needs to be taken back. If we are proposing that savings incomes exist and there is more, then perhaps what needs to be promoted is not to tax them for the second time as high, comparatively speaking, as the territories around us. And if we talk about heritage, and in Europe there is no such thing, and in Madrid, too, it has little sense to encourage measures in the IRPF so that great managers come and give them an exemption in the IRPF, to see if they take and come and stay, if we then scare them with other measures. And we do want there to be big taxpayers in the Basque Country and to co-pay in the Basque Country and not to happen to us as happened in Gipuzkoa, which these big taxpayers are no longer, are no longer. And we also want and propose that in the tax of inheritance and donations between ascendants and descendants traditionally in this country that has been exempt. He is now exempt in Madrid and here he is not exempt. Before we had that exemption to attract assets, which then you collect more with other taxes, such as the IRPF, and it turns out that now we don't have it. And the Government knows, because we know, because the same thing that people are asking us people are asking the Government, the party that supports the Government and the other party that also supports the Government. And if we really want to raise more, we'll have to be attractive for more people to come and pay, which is how you raise more. Finally, we are, of course, against tax fraud and circumvention, and we therefore urge the competent institutions to step up the fight against tax fraud and circumvention, knowing that a year ago we adopted the OECD legislation to try to avoid tax evasion and the traps that some multinationals make by diverting tax bases to other countries where they pay less, when the benefit has been obtained here. These are the proposals that we are making in line with what we have put forward this morning. And with regard to the proposals of the other groups let us say that the proposals in which we have reached an agreement and some transactions with the Basque Socialist and Basque Nationalist groups, I suppose you all have them there; in others we will not, but we will support the proposals of the nationalist group and the Socialist group, because what you are collecting are the agreements that we basically have with them in fiscal matters and, therefore, we too, Mrs Gorospe, comply with the agreements that we have signed. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposals that you are making. And with regard to the proposals by Bildu and Elkarrekin We can, not only go in the opposite direction of what we propose, because you propose to raise all taxes more, but I do have to recognize them, in some measures that you propose, fiscal imagination. And I'm gonna leave it like this. But, well, the fiscal imaginations, however imaginative some are created when it comes to inventing certain tax figures or making such a curious approach as that the corporation tax is progressive and if it wins a company 1 million pays 14 or 15 and if it wins 10 million pays 30, that is not understanding anything and not knowing anything, because the profits of the companies are not measured according to the final profit, because at best, if the BBV won 30 million, it would have broken. Because, of course, the capital investment to generate only 30 million would be ridiculous, and you say, "You've won 30 million, you'd have to charge 35%." I say that, in the end, there are imaginations and imaginative figures that pose both Bildu and Podemos in which we understand that they are a toast to the gallery, but they have little coherence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u26	Good afternoon, everyone. This morning I briefly explained the axis of our tax proposal, and several measures. Now is the moment to deep down in the presentation of resolution proposal. As I have said, our proposals have a clear object: To encourage the standard of tribute based on justice, equity, and progressibility, to guide us to European examples, and consequently to supply sufficient budgets to answer the wants of our country. Taxation is a first-class tool for distributing the wealth we generate, and it is therefore essential if we are to maintain a social welfare model for all people. It is therefore a priority to have sufficient resources to ensure the basic rights of all citizens and to act in defence of our productive fabric. It will therefore be necessary to allocate the necessary economic resources to the public sector in order to build a more just and cohesive society, to develop social policies, to strengthen public spending and to make socially profitable investments. These resources must be structural resources, in order to ensure that the survival of the public sector will be built on solid foundations. Having these ends, we have presented the following propositions of solutions, which are proposed to the cohere of the solutions, and to the establishments of this people. It's the first proposal about the state attorney's identity. We believe it's an important tool, as I have just said, and these resources must be commercial to the public sector. In our third plan of resolution I announced that we would present him in the morning, and here we say that it is urgent to start a public discussion about the policy of taxing, sharing between organizations, social, unional, and political agents, to start the new prosecutor model, a new-based tax model. Our fourth proposal says that the pressure of the EAE is necessary to dissect an integrated plan towards the average of the European Union. Our fifth proposal is also laid down on the table this morning, that we need the whole Fiscal sovereignty. As I have just observed, that the social policies which society requires, the politics of education, and the political policies of education, and the political policy which requires productive sectors to advance, we believe from the Basque Country, as I have said this morning, that we are in need of the whole State, and that, for this very reason, we are obliged to sign international treaties and treaties, for example, to be the leading man, and not to be obliged to do so by the State. In considering this, we propose to be able to regulate the VAT and special taxes by negotiation with the state. Also, the negotiation in order to be a direct intervention of the Ecophinis. And of course, in order to be a proper and consistent tax system, we're asking you to rule and manage social data here, and so we ask you to start a negotiation. Another important section is that of environmental physical quality. We see that solid steps are necessary in this respect, and that our proposal of resolution is related to it. I have already said, that it is essential to us to have the same treatment (that is, the labourers) on the basis of the tax-basement of the PFIV. At the same time, we believe that the removals which surround the house must be re-entered, and we believe that the removal which is in force for the purchase of the house must be gradually suppressed, by increasing the removals of the house by increasing the rentals, and by adding, of course, a better course for the low and middle classes. We also think there's a chance of changing the last flight or last space by taking it to 50%. As to the taxation of wealth, we place it on the table at once to take away the exception of the "chasceur" and of the members of the enterprise, and of the wealth which is connected with economic activity. Here, in a certain sense, we place the foundation of wealth and of great fortunes, and so we place it on the table for the familiar organizational division of all kinds of 75%. Of course, we put on the table a new rate of taxation for wealth, because he who has it today does not answer our proposition or our view of wealth. Around the fraud, the fraud, and, of course, around the prosecutor, we put several proposals on the table. On the one hand, an integral and efficient combat plan, to influence it in consciousness, to fix the regulations for the maintenance of the prosecutor, to increase the efficiency of the tax administration and the resources of the administration. We believe it to be important, here also I have said already, that in this international world, even our own voice is opposed to fraud, where we have our own voice, because we have it, or that our lands have the power of taxing it. We believe it would be essential to regulate the census of the tax collectors of special danger, and we can see the essential point of making the Basque Obstacle against the prosecutor. This EZAZE around the prosecuting attorney, in my humble opinion, is an important solution... "All of them are important, but I have not before proposed that such an audience should be heard in all other groups of the administration, and that in every grade of the administration we should establish clauses concerning the public responsibilities, which give precedence to the public prosecutors who are responsible for the contractations, and at the same time impose penalties on the corporations who are employed in prosecutions of paradise. We propose different changes in proportion to the tax upon social taxes. We propose, on the one hand, that the nominal man who is to be a progressive, who is to be paid by societates, and who has to apply this tribute over the profits, should be a tax on whatever size of the society he has, and always to be taxed according to the profits he has. And we also propose a board. It's a tax of social societies that we use to remove the restrictions connected to the reservasters. We propose to have only one and limited remove associated with I+G. The justification of this Subtractor would be that the consequences of these investments exceed the areas of investers and the useful areas for the whole economy. And, well, so many others, about the social tax. And finally, a proposal was proposed by the legislatures to ask for pensions, even if the workers were to participate in business. We believe that to participate and to encourage our decisions to agree with the workers and to encourage such corporate models. So we suggest that we give 10% of our quota benefit to workers who are making significant cooperation in enterprise management. These are, very briefly, the proposals which we made from the EH collect on the table. Most of the proposals were known, because our tax proposal is long since public, and he who has been willing to know it has it. Among other groups' proposals, well, there's everything. We shall vote with PP because, as he said, they are in very contrary furrows, so that we shall vote against them. We have everything in the propositions proposed by PSE and PNV: sometimes we will go to abstinence, sometimes we will vote no. And even among the Polydemos' proposals, we have all sorts of votes. We've read the resolution suggestions of all the other teams, we've been reviewing them. Each of you will know what he does with the compositions of the resolution, but I insist that the Basque People are actually proposed to the Rocins on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, all of you, and we'll discuss this afternoon. Since it could not be otherwise, when it comes to registering the resolutions that will now be debated, if you can call them in any way, we have tried to make the best possible use of the arguments we have put forward, which we have already put forward on Friday and which we have also raised this morning. Thus, we have recorded 55 resolutions, with the common objective of promoting a tax system that pursues the purposes of income sufficiency, equity, efficiency, wealth redistribution, encouraging economic activity and the creation of quality employment, and supporting the energy transition and promoting equality between men and women. 55 resolutions that can be divided into four large blocs. In the first block we set out 13 resolutions on the general principles which, in our view, must comply with any fiscal reform that is fair. We call for the promotion of a tax system that pursues the purposes of income sufficiency, equity, efficiency and redistribution of wealth. We call for a thorough tax reform that will change the tax system as a whole. In addition, this reform should be carried out with the aim of increasing collection, broadening the base of the tax system and simplifying the system of tax benefits, thus avoiding tax avoidance so that most of the tax burden does not, as at present, fall on workers and workers on behalf of others and increases the contribution of capital income. We call, in turn, for a fiscal reform aimed at progressive convergence in fiscal pressure with the EU average. We also call for a gender-sensitive assessment of tax policies in the Basque Autonomous Community, analysing, as we said in the morning, the different gender-related impacts of tax burdens and benefits. In addition, we request the development within four months of a guide incorporating tax policy methodology and recommendations with feminist principles and methods. We also urge that a climate change impact assessment be carried out within four months of the tax rules applied in the three historic territories, in particular the effect of indirect taxes and tax exemptions, deductions and subsidies applied to natural and legal persons. We also propose to establish taxes that encourage the reduction of environmentally harmful behaviour, contribute to climate change or involve the excessive use of non-renewable natural resources. We also propose to carry out a report on economic, social, gender and environmental cost-benefit in all expenditure items over EUR 5 million, which must be approved by the Governing Council. In a second block we frame a resolution on harmonisation, collaboration and fiscal coordination. The resolution urges the Basque Government and the outlaws to promote from the Tax Coordination Body the development of Law 3/1989 of 30 May on Harmonization, Collaboration and Fiscal Coordination, so that, with the necessary technical work carried out, the corresponding regulatory provisions can be drawn up to coordinate and harmonize fiscal policy in Basquedi, on the basis of very clear guidelines: to draw up reports analysing the degree of harmonization between each of the historical territories within three months, transferring them to the Basque Parliament for the appropriate purposes; and to draw up, within six months, the necessary regulatory proposals for the development of Law 3/1989 on Harmonization, Collaboration and Fiscal Coordination, also transferring them to the Parliament. In the third block we provide 18 resolutions to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and limit tax evasion. We plan to set the objectives and the evaluation for the eradication of tax fraud, setting as a first objective to recover 60% of the total fraud in the general taxes managed by the Basque administrations estimated in the Report on the Economy and Fiscal Fraud in Euskadi. We also propose to direct the tax inspection towards the investigation of those who defraud the most: large companies, large estates, bulldozers (single-person companies), companies that in turn have subsidiaries in tax havens or aggressive tax territories. We propose to publish the lists of people and companies who are late with the outland haciendas from 250.000 euros. We propose to extend participation in the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud by integrating political, trade union and socio-economic actors into its meetings, with the capacity to present proposals for action to be taken with a view to eradicating tax fraud that is binding within the Commission's agreements. We believe that it is essential to create an observatory to combat tax fraud, composed of independent experts, to carry out specific studies and reports, with the aim of analysing the ways of circumvention and tax engineering and measuring tax fraud in the different historical territories, as well as to draw up recommendations for the eradication of tax fraud. We find it essential to investigate tax fraud resulting from labour fraud, related to the lower payment of taxes in relation to submerged work, temporary and part-time fraudulent recruitment, excessive overtime and undeclared work, among other irregularities that we can count on fiscal transcendence. In order to combat tax evasion, we propose that a list of individuals, companies and companies with a tax base or business unit in the Basque Autonomous Community be drawn up within three months from the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud and that they have subsidiaries, presence or interests in tax havens. We also believe that the existing Economic Crimes Unit of Ertzaintza should have dedicated and trained agents exclusively to pursue economic crimes, doubling the specific budget and seconded personnel. In the following blocks we raise resolutions for specific taxes. We bet on the progressive convergence in the taxation of personal income tax between savings income (capital yields and returns from economic activities) and labour income. In the IRPF, what we propose: we propose that the minimum tax exemption be raised to EUR 14,000 for labour income, that a person who earns EUR 1,000 per month should not have to pay income tax on natural persons. On the other hand, we propose that there should be a regulatory change in the higher income tranches, so as to increase their contribution. We also propose to eliminate the exemption for dividends and equity in profits from the income tax of natural persons. In the company tax we propose the progressive convergence of fiscal pressure, Mr Damborenea, I am not talking about collection normally, well, also, but this time, tax pressure. I'll bet you and Mrs. Castelo a dinner that the tax burden on corporate tax is going to fall; not the collection, not the collection. We believe that corporate tax should gradually converge in fiscal pressure with the EU average. We believe that it is also essential to apply the highest rate of income tax on natural persons for enterprises without business activity (fictitious, interposed or instrumental companies without productive purposes), and also to those engaged solely in the management of personal assets. We believe that it is necessary to raise the general rate to 30% in corporate tax, while also assuming the objective of gradually increasing a tax rate to 35% in order to converge in tax pressure with the EU average. And we have put forward many proposals, many resolutions that have previously been adopted in other full monographs; therefore, I would not understand today that they are not adopted. But it seems that today the government is portraying itself; the roller of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party with the support of the People's Party bury everything here, no matter what, no matter what, no matter what; no matter what its own electoral programme, no matter what it is, no matter what. And that is his old policy, that of his partisan interests rather than the general interest or principles. Because I find this institutional triplet game that some are performing impressive. In Elkarrekin We can at least take our work seriously and vote accordingly with our principles. We are not going to overthrow all your resolutions, we will vote accordingly with what we think about them. But you haven't even called us. Mrs. Castelo, I told you twice to see when we were meeting. They haven't even called us. I don't understand. Like taking the political class seriously! And I was talking about principles, yes, and I'm talking about principles because we need politics with principles, fiscal politics with principles. Some long ago abandoned them and believe that they can continue to appear before the citizenry by saying one thing and then in institutions doing the opposite. And that's his word, a word that's absolutely worthless. And it's not worth going up to the rostrum, Mrs. Castelo, and saying that you're progressive. It's not worth defending the indefensible. It's not worth it then, in the hallway, that "What a bad thing is going on with us! This is not what I wanted." That's not good, Mrs. Castle. Because now you pass like a roller and shatter all the contributions of the rest of the progressive groups. It doesn't matter whether you're the ones you committed to on the election program or not, whether you kill them the same, the same. And then they'll pretend to defend that against the citizenry, right? And that's his way of doing politics, not ours, of course. We will vote accordingly with our principles and ideas. We will continue to dignify this House, dignifying the value of the word committed to citizenship. Dignifying the defense of the interests of the citizenry that not only trusted us, but voted progressive in this country and that today feels orphaned seeing the Socialist Party pact, once again, again, with the most racy right. And you can't call it a socialist and pass a tax cut of this caliber on big companies. And gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, is that your auzolan and your governance? The parliamentary roll next to the People's Party? Please vote accordingly with its principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u30	Very good afternoon. I'm going to lower the tone, because we've all started with a low tone and we're done... Today, Valentine's Day to Mr. Bollain is affecting you. Well, I, having reviewed the hemerotheque, had found that in this second round normally the political formations to which they were dedicated were – because we had already had the opportunity in the morning to explain our political lines, our differences and our possibilities of meeting – to explain the motions for resolutions that had been put forward. And I'm gonna do it, but, man, not before without telling you about any of the issues you mentioned earlier. Man, I already know that you closed my speech here this morning, Mr Bollain, saying that you encouraged the socialists to maintain open relations, right? And even if we could accept his invitation, he must understand – and I imagine he will understand it – that two hours is only a short time to adapt to an open relationship. Of course it is true, that it is true that if your interest had been sincere, if it had been loyal, if it had been with the intention of reaching an agreement, with that figure of hand stretched out that you have told me all morning, you would surely not have rejected a full monograph of taxation a year ago on the proposal of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. And if he had been really interested in us having really valued his proposals, surely, instead of giving them to the press on Friday and to us today, barely two hours ago, he would have done the opposite and brought it to us at least on Friday and we could have worked the rest of the time. But that's not what you're looking for. And even though with that quick reading that I have been able to make at this time of your proposals and some of EH Bildu we might have certain philosophical issues that we have shared, as we have shared here, this morning, in the rostrum, there are other drafting issues that you say are not wrong, but are wrong, and when you talk about type, pressure or base, sometimes you don't talk about what you want to talk about. And, therefore, I, which I do invite you to do, if you really, this pure and chaste newly arrived Left, really want to reach an agreement with the progressive forces of this Parliament, with this which you have brought today as a basic document start working, because you are going to have a new opportunity to influence what the resources of the public administrations are allocated to in the budget of 19. And if you have also seen the proposals of the Socialist Party, presented together with the Nationalist Party, you will see that we are also closing with a new evaluation horizon, but you were also telling him this morning that we trust and believe in what is the ongoing evaluation of the policies that we are putting in place, also fiscal policies, within a scenario, logically, of the necessary stability of tax legislation that I will also have heard at the time. Therefore, of institutional trileros, if we had to talk, we would be talking about Elkarrekin Podemos, because of what was presented in this rostrum as motions for resolutions and explained by you to what you made, as when you rule in Navarre, there is a very, very, very, very – and I am short – long stretch, in which, surely, during all that journey we could find ourselves. Because of what they have presented here to what they have done there, right?, as my daughter would say, "Like night to day." Anyway! I, what I was coming here today, in this second round and with a quiet debate... You have been able to read them, we have put forward far fewer proposals than yours, because we consider, first, that the proposals adopted in the 2013 plenary and resulting in the 2013 reform are fully in force. And we only introduced those that were necessary or in which we ratified some basic principle, because it has given us the feeling that during last year's debates some political formations have not been made clear to them what we believe tax policy is for or should be for. And, therefore, we, in these resolutions that we have tabled, make a first block of general principles and declarations to clearly determine that taxation is one of the most important tools to achieve greater equality, solidarity and social justice and, therefore, to build a more just society in which no citizen is left to his own fate, given that it serves, as we have said very well – and in this we have agreed many groups – to provide sufficient resources to sustain the maintenance of public services and services and because this helps us to effectively redistribute wealth among the population and that we can also promote economic growth and job creation. I imagine that, within that assessment of the votes you have taken, we could certainly meet here. Therefore, there is no fear that, if we agree here and there are no other issues, the main philosophy is taken up, which is what we are supposed to ask this Parliament: that important things be taken up or, at least, that we all have more or less clear. On the other hand, what we have also presented is that, based on these commitments that we have made, we believe that the tax reform carried out in 2013 has been appropriate to the objectives that were sought, namely the financial adequacy or sustainability of public policies and public services. This morning, of course, I expanded on that argument. There is a second block, which we have allocated to tax fraud, because as I was saying to you this morning, that has been, is and will be a priority until we get a single euro to escape the drain without paying what it owes, and surely there we have time to work among the proposals put forward by EH Bildu, those put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos and those put forward by the Socialist Group, the Nationalist Group and even by the People's Party, with which the world does not end here today either. That is why I would simply like to remind you that this road has already begun in 2013, that we are taking a few steps today and that I would like to highlight one of the measures we are presenting on the subject of tax fraud and because I have seen you insist. I am not going to give you the arguments, because for that we can draw from Parliament's hemerotec archive and read the record in which we justify why, why not – why you, why not us, logically – on the need for an observatory to combat tax fraud. And it is because that observatory, we believe that we already have it with the Interinstitutional Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud. That is why one of the proposals, which comes to be incorporated, is what we told them in that debate that there was no such interinstitutional committee, which was the ability to commission reports on what is the submerged economy and tax fraud, so that they can give us new elements of judgment in order to be able to continue to promote measures in the fight against tax fraud. We believe that it is important – I believe that we all agree here too, and we will certainly have no difficulty in making it one of the measures supported – that it is necessary to continue to promote the implementation of tax education in education, primarily because the knowledge of how resources are obtained and what they are destined for, surely, what it does is to help combat that collective awareness that currently exists permissively with fraud. Always, a knowledge will help a change of social consciousness, which is very necessary also in the face of small practices that do not seem important to you, but to us, because we are concerned about large fraud and small fraud, because everything is fraud and everything delegitimate the system and damages the public services and the benefits that we must give to meet the needs of citizens. We therefore also continue to deal with the issue of information exchange agreements, the strengthening of administrative cooperation and mutual assistance, automatic exchanges and the control of cash transactions, which we believe is also one of the elements with which fraud is facilitated or can be facilitated. There is a third block, which sets out the basis for the tax update that we have agreed, following the analysis that we made of the 2013 data, and which is essentially aimed at corporate tax. These general bases or criteria are those of ensuring the competitiveness of the economic fabric by not undermining tax collection and allowing the financing of public services and policies. Also, one thing we consider necessary is that progress should be made in the principle that profit-making companies must bear, yes or yes, a certain effective taxation, so that all deductions and compensations must be constrained by that limit. In no case should this update of tax legislation shift a drop in income to middle and low incomes, encourage savings and investment, and also facilitate and improve, or not harm, the competitiveness of businesses. We must also continue to introduce measures to prevent tax evasion, tax evasion, erosion of tax bases or artificial transfer of business profits, aligning ourselves with the European tax systems, which you name so much. And, therefore, what we do is commit ourselves, as I have also told you, to a new assessment by 2020. I was also in the mood, Mr Bollain, to accept the bet, because I am not afraid to accept the bets they tell me, but as you later considered that we are all institutional trilers, I will also not have to force you to win the bet and have to pay us a dinner. Better if you make a point of improving your ability to agree and your willingness to relate to the rest of the groups, and surely, surely, achieve better goals than those which your political formation, and you in particular, is achieving in this Parliament so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Basque patriots. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u32	Good evening and thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good evening, all the presidents, chiefs of departments, again. Our parliamentary party has presented all the petitions of solutions along with the Socialists, and, as you have heard, the spokesman of the Social Party have been assigned one by one, so that it will not be necessary to enter into specific explanations, which will be extended in the afternoon. In any case, whether we have spoken of it in the morning, we see a very necessary necessity of respecting the circle of jurisdictions, and of making changes in the sphere of taxes, concerns the principal councils of the three countries. And the idea we have mentioned second, signed agreements, and the respect we have agreed on, is essential to us. And at the present moment a project and proposition of the rules of the forum in the great assemblies, in the case of the Arabs, will be discussed there, and certain proposals will be admitted. We've signed two media signatures with Popular Party. On the one hand, we praise and protect it again because the Echonomic Concert is absolutely necessary and beneficial to the self-organization of our people. And we force the characteristics of a system of taxes, which we think ought to be; To be just, progressive and effective, and to be its end, as we place it in propositions of resolution: to promote economic activity, to acquire money to finance public and public services, and to be harmonized. To say this also, it is necessary to speak of it a few years ago, in the 2013th year ago, to restore this system of taxation, among others, to the directive from the European Union. And in this sense, too, we present a proposition of resolution. On the other hand, it has been mentioned, and we believe that there must have been a special contempt for many previous discussions, and the Committee of the Zega, which was formed in the month of September 2013 against the fraud, was founded on the OCDE. We believe that it has been highly effective, that the works he's done have been extrinsic, and we're informed that in this legislature there have been several times come to the Ogs and Previouss' Committee to give us an account of what he's done there. We mention in our compositions of solutions that it would be nice to increase its functions, to expand them. One of the successes of the previous debate on the tax system was the establishment of the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud within the Euskadi Tax Coordination Authority. And in today's motions for resolutions we call for the extension of its functions, so that the incorporation of periodic studies, which, in our view, should be carried out with statistical operations for measuring the unobserved economy, can be carried out in accordance with the OECD recommendation. We believe that this is a good way for them to provide us with data that can be interesting with these statistical operations. On the other hand, we have included a number of proposals on a general basis, but aligned with that reform, with that update that is currently being discussed at the general meetings of the three historic territories. It said before that we will respect the competition field and also the agreement we have adopted. And we will respect and limit ourselves to the terms on which that agreement has been concluded. We will therefore only support those motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the Socialist Party and us, the Basque Nationalist Party, and the two compromise amendments that we have signed with the People's Party. We will vote against the other motions for resolutions, and I would like to stand, in particular, in the proposals put forward by the People's Party. With you, we agree – and this is reflected in the motions for resolutions – that we committed ourselves to an assessment of the entire, joint, comprehensive tax system over the course of 2020; an assessment that might also lead us to a, not an update, but perhaps a far-reaching reform, which would address different taxes, different tax figures, including the income tax on natural persons. You, in the motions for resolutions before us, go a little further than we have agreed. They are asking us, in particular, to adopt and support concrete measures in relation to some taxes outside of what we have agreed, and it is a nonsense, it makes no sense to say that we are going to analyse and evaluate in depth the entire tax system in order, in a straight line, to say that we are calling for certain aspects of taxes to be lowered or raised. It's a contradiction, it doesn't make sense. That is, we either wait and evaluate and make decisions, or make decisions regardless of what can be evaluated. It makes no sense; therefore, we will vote against them. And I would like to say that, in particular in the compromise amendment that we have signed with you, we thank Basque society in general and in particular the Basque families for the effort that they have made and continue to make, in many cases, to be able to all of us to move forward; that soon, on 21 March, we will have in this House another monographic debate on the Family and Children's Pact, a pact that is crucial for the Basque Government, where an analysis will be addressed and made, and also in other areas (in committee and in plenary), an integral analysis of what must be public policies to favour families. Because isolated measures, unique and exclusively addressing income, make no sense; if it is an interinstitutional pact, if it is an interdepartmental pact, it requires us to make a global approach and make joint decisions. Maybe income, maybe. Maybe expenses, maybe. Perhaps income and expenditure, but let's look at everything as a whole and make comprehensive, comprehensive decisions to get right in those family policies that we will launch, not isolated decisions and isolated proposals for the sole purpose of having a holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing the answer shift to the Basque Popular Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bollain, you say that we are burying everything, and I do not know if it is the right word, but what you propose is that we reject almost everything. And it tells us that you take this seriously, and I assure you that I too take this debate seriously. However, in the area of tax fraud and the proposals you make, it is difficult, in some cases, to take this seriously. When it is proposed to set up an observatory to see, study, we in the area of tax fraud, what we have always proposed is that action must be taken. And when they tell us that it has to be by expert and independent people, that is, that they are not the tax inspectors, so the most expert and independent we know are the defrauders, and the most of all are those who are not caught, because, of course, those who are caught, or are not so expert or are not so independent. And when I was talking about, finally, imaginative propositions... Your number 28, I will try to understand that when you ask us to spend money on an institutional campaign in tax havens so that those people or companies who are domiciled there know that they are defrauding, so what do you want me to tell you. I mean, not only do they not pay taxes, but they propose that we spend the money that taxpayers pay here on these things. It's complicated. It's complicated that we don't reject him. And the rest of your proposals, I'm sorry, are trying to review the tax agreement that's being processed at the general meetings right now. Yes, all they have on corporate tax is the opposite, even proposing 35% on the rate. What do you want me to say? Now, Mrs Gorospe, I know what we have agreed and I have told you before that we respect our agreements. But I will also tell you that we, at last, the assessment of the 13th reform collection was made by the deputies before the summer, of all taxes. I explained to him this morning what happened to the IRPF, each occupied in the Basque Country how much more IRPF pays than what was paid before, I explained it to him. I have explained how we have lost high taxpayers, in Gipuzkoa in a year 640, but we have also lost them in Álava and Bizkaia, and they have gone to Madrid. And that's what we've been studying and evaluating. We've studied and evaluated it, and so have you. And so are you. I know the commitment we have made, that no reform should be made until two years from now, but we propose that if it can be done before, it should be done before, and we also tell you in what direction. We'll tell you in which direction. And I don't know why you're surprised that we're putting this forward, because we've been putting this forward forever, because we did that assessment too, as well as the deputies, after the deputies in July last year as a party. That is where our proposals came from, but after looking at the reports from the parliaments. I mean, we do know and we have evaluated it, and we know what happened and what happened to the IRPF, and what happened to the other taxes. Of course we do. And with that of successions, and with that of heritage. And we want here – and I said it this morning – to have many rich people. I wish we had a lot of rich people paying taxes here, instead of scaring them, like they scare them, which then we have to pay the others more. That is our approach. Of course, I'd like Amancio Ortega to be here, for example, in Bilbao. It's a good place. Or Botín, right? Why? Because we'd raise more and maybe we'd be able to pay less for everyone else. But, of course, if the fiscal policy that we are proposing, if it is maintained, is to scare those, then, we are wrong, because if those who can pay the most stop paying here and pay elsewhere, in the end it happens what happens here, that those who are here and we pay here we have to pay more to keep all that social spending in which we supposedly all agree to keep it. And little more I have to say. We would, Mrs Gorospe, like the taxation we have to benefit families, and I have explained why. And as soon as possible, as soon as possible. And I'm sure you do, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect EH. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u36	Thank you, ma'am. Well, we've seen how the Socialists and the Jeltarian Party have divided it. Mrs. Castelo has introduced their resolutions, and has nothing to do with the others; and Mrs. Gorospe, pues, más o meno pairs of cido, will not argue against the whole party because they have an agreement, and they have some, some, some of them, some of their own. Well, it's all right to know that you despise, because you don't even read them, the proposals that will be the axis of tax policy for the next few years. You have not read, not one, nor any propositions concerning general principles. You have not read your proposals in relation to the general principles of fiscal policy, because, if not, one of two, or you have no idea of fiscal policy – and something you do know; at least, how to help your own – or you have no interest in what others propose. Because if you tell me to vote against that the tax system is an important tool for achieving social justice, the sharing of wealth and the narrowing of the social gap between people who are lucky enough to have more and the most disadvantaged classes is logical, well. And if it seems to you normal to vote against that for the state of social welfare and dignity it is priority to have sufficient resources to ensure the basic rights of all citizens and to act in defense of our productive network, which is something that you always think we forget, but we do not forget, and that these resources have to be structural, well, it must be that these things are not important. Of course, you must have signed a pact; then, we do not come to talk about fiscal policy, the only thing you have come to is to put your pact on the table. And already referring to the motions for resolutions tabled by the PNV and the Socialist Party, which I have read – I have read them – I have to tell you that some principles on the sheet are fine, above the paper are fine, but the problem is that then you, when you raise fiscal policies, forget those principles. They forget, because they put them on the table and then they do the opposite. Therefore, on those principles, assuming that they are general principles of fiscal policy, of course, we are not going to stand against it, because we have read the proposals, but what we cannot do is support some general principles that you put on a paper and then pass it over where that... If we are going to support it, we are going to support a motion for a resolution of its own in which it says that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue its efforts with the outsourced finances to promote the gradual implementation of tax education in non-university education. All right, yes, all right, let's now put this here, when you all know it, as well as I do, because we've all read it and here was the Anti-Fraud Commission explaining how you were applying a didactic unit in the different educational centers that had joined this program... A didactic unit, by the way, put into effect by the Gipuzkoa Treasury, by the way, when it ruled Euskal Herria Bildu, by the way, and it is exactly that didactic unit that is being taught in the different educational centers attached to this plan. But, well, it's okay, it's okay. I am sure that other of our motions for resolutions – because this was also in another full monograph and you voted against and now it is here and you present it – I am sure that many of our motions for resolutions, in four or five or six years' time, when you evolve, will also sign them. [[Berber]] And I have said it, it is no longer just that there are principles that you then demean, no, it is that, above all, in some of your motions for resolutions you mix economic concepts... I am not going to say "slightly", as a spokesman here said to the spokesman of Podemos at some point and without any rigor. I'm not going to say that, I'm not going to get to those points, but the truth is they're raised in an unrighteous way, I might say. You cannot say that fiscal policy is not going to do – because you are going to do everything you can to prevent it from happening – that middle and low incomes are going to hurt your income; no, no, income is going to hurt because you are dedicated to implementing other types of employment policies that cause you to hurt your income. It is not fiscal policy that undermines people's incomes. It is employment policies, labour policies, which undermine people's incomes. And there's another one out there that also has mariner fabric, but as I'm running out of time we're going to leave it, but you mix economic concepts that same for someone who doesn't have any idea what he's talking about in the same sentence may seem logical, but they don't have any economic meaning. And, well, the 13 is already of note: "...with the horizon of 2020 and after carrying out an evaluation of the system value..." you institutions, perhaps, if at best possible, if Saturn aligns with Uranus, an update of the tax regulations. But if Mr. Damborenea has told you, he has put it on the table! IRPF in 2020, yes or yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. To me, the truth is, I think it's amazing, I think it's amazing. Are you sure that you have read the resolutions we have tabled? Because of the 55 resolutions that we have tabled, 26 are resolutions that were discussed in the last full case studies and were adopted. [[Berber]] That's it, but they're not being carried out; then, it's pure political cynicism, let's go. I don't understand going down for going down, even if you agree. Because I am sure that in some of these resolutions both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party agree. That is to say, we are going to vote in favour of your resolutions, of those with which we agree. To give an example, aside, Mrs Castelo, you have these very days your secretary general, Pedro Sánchez, touring the Spanish state talking about taxing banking and big fortunes, but you here today, allied with the People's Party, are going to vote no. Believe me, it's really hard for me, it's hard for me to understand. Mrs. Gorospe said: "erdibideko bi sinatu doguz Alderdi Popularrarekin". Klaro, Alderdi Popularrarekin izan beharko, ze guri dei bat ere ez, not a single call we have received so we can sit at the table and negotiate. The only one who has received your call will have been the People's Party of Government. I've told Mrs. Castelo twice, to see if we could get together. Neither. Mrs Castelo, you voted in favour of creating a permanent forum in the House for the tax debate on 21 February 2013. There is no permanent forum, but today you vote no. Why? Mrs Castelo, you voted in favour of making cost-benefit reports of large expenditure items on 21 February 2013. They are not carried out, they are not carried out at present and you vote not. Resolution No. 13 of which we have tabled. You are voting against today to develop Law 3/1989 of 30 May on Harmonization, Collaboration and Fiscal Coordination. Could you explain why? Mrs Castelo, you voted in favour of the investigation into tax fraud resulting from labour fraud on 28 May 2012, which is not currently being done, and today you are voting against. Do they not want to commit themselves from within their sphere of responsibility? Mrs Castelo, you voted in favour of the real-time computer interconnection of the tax databases of the offshore haciendas on 21 February 2013 and today you are voting against. Really, Mrs. Castelo? You also voted in favour of reviewing all special regimes, above all by eliminating those that favour circumvention and fraud and by keeping those that, because of their social or sectoral nature, bring greater benefit to society and today vote against it. They say they're already approved. They are approved, but are not currently being implemented. That is the problem, which they are voting in favour of something that is not being done today, but today, unlike what you voted for five years ago, you are voting against it. What is it, that in government things are seen differently? Or perhaps this – probably, besides being more correct – is like it happened with the Marx brothers, who have some principles but who, if they don't like them, have others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u40	Well, let's see if we're finishing up and I'm able to focus on some issues, briefly and without altering myself, which then I have to go to dinner with my daughter and get my attention. Mr. Damborenea, I don't know where you get the averages with the IRPF theme. This morning I forgot to answer it, but you tell me you get a mean between IRPF data and busy. What do busy people have to do with IRPF taxpayers? The IRPF is the income tax of individuals, both occupied and unoccupied; therefore, you can't do those symmetries to me here, and, furthermore, you know perfectly well you don't. What happens is that this morning – yes, it is true, and I have understood the game – everyone has used the data that he has looked like, and you did like that and he has used it. Hey, perfect, but, as I told you this morning, one thing, no matter how much it is repeated, it doesn't become true; especially when they know that they start from false approaches. And there is a fact that you have also commented on, on the assessment that was made by the general boards, that you have been able to see just as I have been able to see it, and that there has been an increase in the collection, by the increase in the progression of the LRPF base for income over €90,000, has been raised further in those sections and the taxpayer base has been expanded. That is, we have not missed any for increasing the progression in those sections of the IRPF. I have seen these data myself and you have seen them, with which, manipulation for manipulating, I do not think it is necessary either. I already know – and I told you this morning, I am not going to repeat it now – that we have a different view of what the tax issue is, and that, then, is seen. You prefer that money stays in the pocket of the citizens, of which you can stay, logically, because not all have the same, and we prefer to go to the redistribution of wealth through the provision of public services, of uncoupled health, of education for all, etc. Well, I explained it to him this morning, I don't think he's going anywhere anymore. And then, with regard to Mrs Pinedo, from EH Bildu, just a couple of questions. He asks us if the principles are forgotten. That I would have to ask you, because, if I read your document carefully and read what you have done in Navarre, someone has forgotten the principles. So, I imagine that it is you who have lost the principles on the way to that part of the comrades that we have next door. Or has the People's Party conditioned you there? Have you reached an agreement there and, therefore, that looks a lot like here? Because, of course, we were told that we had been conditioned here by the People's Party. And what have you, in Navarre, been conditioned to: what did We say, what did EH Bildu say, what did the United Left say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u41	Mr. Bollain!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u42	I have quietly respected the speaking time, and I have had to listen, come on, that I almost wear out your last name today. And, on the other hand, don't worry, we don't claim copyright in any matter, nor are we here to steal ideas. That is, when we talk about tax education you will be convinced that this was born in Gipuzkoa and I am convinced that since I entered the General Boards of Bizkaia in 2007, we have demanded tax education at the appearances of the Finance Commission. But, well, this is not a question of medals, it is a question of being done, because we and surely you too are convinced that tax education is worth improving or changing that social consciousness of permissiveness with tax fraud. So, we don't evolve, okay, because we have our principles firm, I think that... I hope it's clear to you. Neither do you, and that is why you are in that constant evolution of what we do in this rostrum and what we do elsewhere. But this morning I answered you, just like you have some complex with that. And I don't think you're against evaluating the public policies that are being implemented, I don't think so. Right? And, Mr. Bollain, I will finish with you, I have 53 seconds left and I think I have to tell you what I have to say. Look, we don't need to be permanently ratifying what we've already approved. You've copied... What did you say, half the proposals? Well, he could have saved them, because those were already approved. They've been approved, we don't need to approve them again. And one thing to say, you come down here to a gallery of a Parliament, not to the gallery of a rally; then, International Theatre Day... Did you tell me about March 23rd? [[Berber]] 21? March 21st, that is, man, I think you had time to practice at home without having to use this rostrum for those merits. I, here, keep telling you that in government things must change because the party you represent, of Elkarrekin Podemos, in Navarra, which governs, has not approved what you propose here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u44	Thanks again. We didn't come here, Mrs. Pindo, eager to compete, but as one of our teammates says, "Brift with pride and foundation." It doesn't make any sense. I don't know why you should think what we've read, what we haven't read, what our mind is, what our will is about taxes we don't know what it is about, what our development is, what it is. Fundamentals if the foundation passes like this. We have made it clear from the beginning to what we have come to be, and what our principles are, and what our intentions are in this dispute. And we have been honest about them, to go on with this plan: We would have respected the scope of our jurisdictions and respected the agreement we had received. From that point on, I don't know what kind of a resolution proposition you're talking about when we have it, we've introduced the opposites of what you've read, which go together in the context of philosophy. And the rockets are for what we've been through. Bollain, not a call. Baina, she, zurre diskurtso osoa... Beno, lehenengo, guk argi esan dugu zer egitera etorri garan. And we have said that we have come to give Babesa, political coverage, also from this House, to a pact that we have agreed, as the adviser said this morning, first between institutions and then between political parties, with the enormous difficulties that this has. And we obviously lacked this. It's silly to make a few calls and waste time just to make the paripé that we want to get to something when the negotiation scenario, the agreement scenario and the timing of this deal has been different. Now, if, in fact, as you have just said, what it is about here is to do an absurd theatricalization that leads to nothing, we could have done that game. And what brings us, rather than wasting your time and wasting our time? We came to give him that political support, that's all. To Be searching, evolución ("Candodo believes in evolución, tala vez nos ollame"). Look, we have no objection to it, Mrs. Pinedo, and we believe it's very good to hear all the other members of the legislature, all other political parties, and other institutions, which make proposals for other administrations. And in his case, when the proposals are interesting, take them, examine them, and, if possible, set them in motion, for we shall be able to go on with them all. And if any of us think that he and all of us are true, and have not the capacity to hear what others say, but that we lose no time with the rest, we will not go on, we have no need of pegas. But, to be honest, you have to have two EHs from the Combat to say, "Candododes evolución." You think nos hablan de evolución? Thank you. Just say one thing, I'm wrong in the first round: I said we're going to vote against all of the Populative Party, and we're gonna protect the first and eighth party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Let's start the vote. First, we vote for the Pope Party's resolutions. Here are three teams: The first vote is one and the eighth resolution. First and eighth resolutions. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u46	So they're accepted. After that, we'll vote for middle-term corrections: The second of the population, which is composed of the Sociists and Eubertians, is the first of the party, and the other is the fourth judgement of the Potionian Party, made with the eleventh of these two other groups. Did they just split up? Do they have to split up? Well, on the one hand and on the other? Okay. Then, first, we vote for the Senate, second of the Pontulacian Party, first of all the socialists and patriotic patriots. Yeah? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstain, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u47	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. After that, we'll vote for another middle-term correction. We can vote. (Pause) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; opposites, 16; white, 0; abstain, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u48	So it's accepted. After that, we'll vote for the other resolutions. We can vote. (Pause) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u49	So they weren't accepted. Next, we vote for the EH Collect Group resolutions. Here are three teams: First team, we vote for 5, 6, 7, and 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 16; contraries, 57; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u50	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote for the 20th resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 16; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u51	So it's not accepted. And next we vote for the other resolutions. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u52	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote with the Podemos team. There will be four teams here: in the first group of resolutions 1, 33, 42, 52, 53, 54, 55. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u53	So they didn't accept it. 35, 36, 39, 40, 41, and 49. resolutions. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u54	So they didn't accept it. The next group is 12, 13, 14, 34, 37, 38, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 50, and 51. resolutions. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 46; white, 0; abstain, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u55	So they didn't accept it. And the rest of us will vote next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 27; the opposites, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u56	So they didn't accept it. We'll next vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucan patriots the resolutions of the teams. I'll make four teams here, start first with the fourth resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u57	So, unanimously, the fourth resolution has been accepted. Two, five, nine, ten, and 13. We'll vote for the resolution funding. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u58	So they're accepted. After three, six, and seven. We'll vote for the resolution funding. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 51; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u59	So they're accepted. And finally 8, 12, and 14. We'll vote for the resolution funding. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 57; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-14.u60	So they're accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was four o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-six.
