ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u0	I'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos of Jon Hernández Hidalez, concerning the state of the Basque pensioners. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Hernández, it's the page of the proposedor to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u1	Good morning, congressmen. Today we bring from our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos, an initiative that has finally been negotiated with the EH Bildu group – they will hand over the transaction at once – and that will have, as we know, also the support of the Socialist Party, which from the very beginning also informed us that it agreed with what it was proposing. We basically have a declaratory motion on the effects that the forthcoming General Budgets are going to have on pensioners, on public pensions. A motion for the Basque Parliament to express itself in the same way as thousands of people are doing in our streets. This same week, pensioners' and retirees' associations once again came out and said clearly, last Monday, that the pension update proposed by the Government and to be implemented through General State Budgets is clearly insufficient. Pensioners have made it clear: that the Rajoy Government should not be supported by Budgets with this massive proposal to raise pensions. This is an initiative, therefore, that seeks a position of clear rejection by the Basque Parliament of general state budgets that, among other negative issues for the majority of people, for the popular classes of our society, will allow the consolidation of the loss of purchasing power of public pensions one more year. And we do so because it seems to us important to respond from this Parliament to the popular outcry that is currently on the streets, a outcry in defense of a public pension system and a outcry for offering a decent pension to hundreds of thousands of older people right now in our country. That is why we have already brought the initiative that was adopted on 1 March, on concrete measures that we think are appropriate to defend and improve the public pension system, but one of those measures that we defend and which was supported by all the groups in this House, except, logically, by the People's Party, will be ignored again, if the General Budgets proposed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy are approved. On 1 March, with the exception of the nine MPs of the People's Party in this House, the rest of us expressed our support for the need for pension increases to be linked to the CPI, in order to prevent them from continuing to lose purchasing power. On that day, and in subsequent debates on pensions in this Parliament, we called for that GNP not to remain in a mere declaration of intent, we called for the measures that included, inter alia, the increase in pensions under the CPI. We now know that if these General State Budgets are approved, the average increase of 0.25 for most pensioners is consolidated and the loss of general purchasing power of public pensions is consolidated. It is the General Budgets of the State that are going to execute, again, that loss of purchasing power, among other issues, which is critical in our view. That is why we believe that this Parliament should express itself in the same way as the Basque pensioners are expressing themselves, and criticise the harmful effect that on the quality of life of our elderly people will entail the General Budgets of the State 2018, and therefore openly reject them, expressing here, in this House, the majority feeling, in our opinion, of Basque society. Last year's General Budgets, of 2017 approved by the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, among other parties, resulted in a drastic reduction of the public deficit over the remaining economic policy objectives, including job creation and quality, two key elements for the sustainability of our public pension system. Spain, with the help of the Government of the People's Party, has been in recent years the champion of the European Union's budgetary adjustment and also of fiscal adjustment, something that was not an exception in the 2017 Budgets and that follows the same path in those of 2018, which have not yet been approved for lack of support to the People's Party. The Government of the People's Party has focused on reducing the public deficit based on cutting, devaluing working conditions and dismantling the public, including public pensions. With the Budgets for 2018, the government, and the supporter of the mimos, will collaborate with their support to strengthen the consequences of the policies of the People's Party in recent years, including those affecting public pensions. Thanks to these policies, Spain is one of the European countries where inequalities have increased most from the start of the crisis, to being among the highest levels of inequality, poverty and social exclusion within the framework of the European Union. Spain is one of the countries of the European Union where inequality between the richest 20% and the poorest 20% is one of the highest, and continues to grow. Today, as you know, having a job in Spain is no longer a sufficient condition to escape poverty, as almost 15% of workers are in this situation as a result of the severe precariousness and poor quality of employment. And this affects in a powerful way the resources that we must allocate to our public pensions, since the low contributions for poor wages do not allow the pension system to have the resources it should have. The erosion of the so-called "state of well-being" resulting from the policies of cuts in the general budgets of recent years explains to a great extent this situation. Spain, according to the latest data, maintains a structural deficit with the eurozone in social protection close to 5% of GDP. The pension system is one of the fundamental parts of the social protection system that are being adversely affected by the reforms carried out and whose final implementation is partly carried out through the State General Budgets when the increase linked to the CPI is modified. Instead of reducing inequalities and eradicating poverty and social exclusion, the General Budgets for 2018, as in 2017, are committed to reducing the public deficit at the cost of increasing the social deficit. Another year of the Congress presents anti-social general budgets, to which the People's Party has already accustomed us. Last year its approval was only possible thanks to the support of the Basque Nationalist Party for these Budgets, something that had been denying that would happen in a special way during the electoral campaign (here is the hemeroteca to check it). Well, the Basque Nationalist Party not only ended up understanding the People's Party, but ended up being the assisted breathing that Mariano Rajoy's Executive needed so much to resist at a time when, without a sufficient majority and devastated by the brutal corruption of his party, he would not have been able to resist much more. A year later, we are in a situation with some similarities. The Basque Nationalist Party at the moment says that to support the General Budgets of the People's Party at this time nothing at all, at least as long as article 155 of the Constitution continues to apply. Something that for my group is good news, but before we ask ourselves what the PNV will do once Article 155 on Catalan self-government ceases to apply. We wonder whether the application of Article 155 by abducting Catalan self-government is the only reason why the budgets of the People's Party should be rejected. For our group the answer is clear: it is not the only reason. Of course to us – and we believe that most of Basque society – does not seem the only reason. The antisocial policies of the People's Party seem to us to be reason enough to continue saying "no" to the General Budgets of the People's Party. To our group, the application of the 155 also seems to us to be a real misconception, but does the absence of the application of that article make the General Budgets of the People's Party better and can be supported? The General Budgets presented for 2018 continue the austerity policies emanating from the capital lobbies that are doing so much damage to social rights and people's living conditions, and consolidate the pyrical rise of 0.25 % of the majority of pensions, that is, consolidate the loss of purchasing power of the latter. On the contrary, one of the spending policies that increases again for the second year more than significantly is defence spending. The expenditure managed by the department of María Dolores de Cospedal will be increased by 6.9% over the previous year. There is no money to increase pensions at the same time as the CPI, the cost of living, but there is money to increase the budget of tanks, missiles and frigates by almost 7%. Somebody explain this to the pensioners: for them and them 0.25, and for the war 7%. The Government has also prepared Budgets that do not serve to increase the income of the public pension system. The consequences of all these decisions on the living conditions of most of the population are dramatic, and to support those Budgets is to support those positions. Not surprisingly, we have met this week through the CIS, which significantly increases the concern for the pension situation, placing itself among the main concerns of the people. The second concern remains corruption. Every day we see the parade of corruption, latrociny and plundering of public arks that is produced by corrupters and corrupters. And those who have designed these Budgets belong, precisely – we have already said it on other occasions – to a party that has been tainted by corruption in a structural way and involved in hundreds of cases of corruption. And those who support them, in our view, are now also supporting that model. We must reject from the Basque Parliament a budget that serves the elites, against the working class and against the pensioners. If there is money for tanks, there must be to update pensions in a manner consistent with the rise in the cost of living. The Euskadi pensioners and pensioners have made this clear and have already expressed it. Let us make this Parliament become today an expression of that majority claim in our society. Let us make sure, in this Parliament, that no one in Euskadi says that he will agree on budgets in the name of the interests of Basque citizens, but curiously against the majority opinion of that same citizen expressed on the streets. Let us make sure that no one uses the dignity of our elders as the currency of exchange of their covenants. We are clear that the majority opinion of this Parliament coincides with the view of the street. The General Budgets presented by the People's Party harm the majority of society and, in a concrete way, harm the pensioners. We therefore feel it is legitimate for this Parliament to express itself in this direction and to demand that the parties that we are part of this House and that we sign or vote on 1 March on an initiative with concrete measures on pensions that we fulfil with that commitment until its final consequences. Negotiating or supporting General State Budgets that do not reflect the claim to update pensions under the CPI is betraying that agreement that we have reached in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Eunus patriots. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all of you. Spain, Spain, Spain, Spain... "Well, Mr. Hernandez, I thought for a moment that we were Congresses in Madrid instead of in the Basque Act. Is that your purpose with this motion? What's your goal? If we read the subject, he puts it on the subject: "The condition of pensioners from Africa." The state of the pensioners in Eukadin. And you're just talking about Spanish. So, what's the purpose? The state of the pensioners here, in this town, Euskadin? Or criticize the Jelt Party of Euko, for the agreement obtained in 2017? Or press the Jalt interested Euco Party on a 2018-18-contentional budget negotiation in some way? You should clarify, Mr Hernández, with both "Spain, Spain, Spain", what your real aim is with this initiative. If you are concerned, in fact, about the situation of pensioners and pensioners in Euskadi or what you really are concerned about is to situate this political debate and position yourself in a debate that must take place in another forum and be prepared for that forum already. Do you know what that's called? Political opportunism. Do you know what that's called? To use and tortically mix two radically different themes: that of pensions and that of the General Budgets of the State. And you know what that is? Use Euskadi pensioners and pensioners for their own interests, for their own interests. That's what you're doing, and you, we can. That's what they're doing. Through political opportunism, you, once and a thousand times, and it is not just on the issue of pensions, lose political opportunities, lose opportunities to move forward from agreement and consensus in politics. And that's a little tragedy in politics, which you're using. Because here the debate on pensions, as you said, has already taken place on 1 March. The agreement of 1 March. I used to say to Mr. Egibar: "It's like the Stormont deal. He's going to keep that name: the March 1 agreement." Because it has an important relevance; because it is a very complete agreement; because it addresses a road map, where we can move forward; because it has a broad political consensus achieved in this House. And you bring him back. Because, unlike what, for example, the unions... Yesterday he read in the press: "Euskadi, the only one without marches of Workers' Commissions and UGT for the pensions on the weekend". And they say, "We do not want any kind of protagonism; we want to preserve the unity that is being achieved in the Basque Country, where the protagonism corresponds to society." And you, and only for your own sake, are not preserving the unity that was achieved. A good deal. That is why we tabled the amendment in its entirety, saying that we ratified what was agreed on 1 March. We've always proclaimed that we want to manage the economic regime of Social Security. We have declared that we believe it, and it is in this agreement that the pensions must go up according to the KPI. We have declared that the 23/2013 law must be cancelled, but not only now, because at its moment it was discussed in Congress. And many more points of this agreement. If we ratify. That is why we are presenting our entire amendment, Mr Hernández, because we have ratified that agreement. And in addition, on 22 March there was also another debate on pensions, so here in Euskadi, if you really cared about the situation of pensioners and pensioners in Euskadi, what here in Euskadi is being done in the meantime. And we are in a privileged situation, which we undertake to maintain and improve, to the extent possible, and always on the basis of the principle of reality, how the situation here is, from our area of competence, better. Because these pensions are supplemented from the GIR, because they have the supplementary housing benefit, because they are helped from social emergency aid, because they are helped to finance medicines. And you, Podemos, what you would have to do is, instead of constantly thinking about political opportunism and placing your debate in Madrid, make the proposals viable, and where you rule put the piles, because you already have something to do, because you rule in many places. She has been – the adviser in the interpellation – the social policy adviser of Castilla-La Mancha for an initiatory journey through the social protection model of Euskadi to see what was being done. He applauded what was done here. Then copy, put your batteries where you rule and forget about political opportunism. Because going back to what you mix, going to what you mix and what you worry about, which are the Madrid Budgets, you in 2017 say "It's that they were approved with the votes of the PNV". What did you do when Rajoy was appointed, when he was in office as President of the Government? Political opportunism. You don't make decisions, you just make speeches, because if you really wanted other majorities, you could make them viable and you don't make them. You make speeches and nothing else. What would have happened in 2017 if the Budgets had not been approved? What would have been the situation? How much would their pension have been increased? 0.25, right? It is tortically used, because it is not true that 0.25 is set out in the Budgets; it is set out in Law 23/2013, as you know well. And if the Budgets had been extended, what would they be in? Mr. Hernandez, in the same one. And you deceive Basque society for your own benefit. They pretend to cheat, but they don't cheat. Because you said, "The PNV to benefit..." Listen, look, the PNV has always said (and it says it in electoral campaign and it says it in all places) that it goes to Madrid not with the will to govern – like you, "Spain, Spain, Spain", like the speech that it has done here – but in the spirit of defending the Basque agenda, which has different areas (social, economic, human rights...), and we are going there to defend that, and that's what we look at in the Budgets. We do not care about the whole budget, about the social protection model (we would like it to be like ours, how not!, but we already have ours); we care about competences. We have a maximum: to defend our Basque agenda for the benefit of Basque society and always without harming anyone. We benefit as much as possible from the people we consider, but without prejudice. And to say that 0.25 is set in the budget is to lie. He doesn't have another name. Liar. Because if the budget is to be extended, it is 0.25 that is proposed as an increase. And if not what they would have to do is put a viable way out, an alternative. Did they? Well, we'll see about that. And I'm going to tell you, the 2018 budget... You plant, Mr Hernández: "And without 155 are the Budgets better?" Let's see, 155. You must be clear, because all the spokesmen of the Basque Nationalist Party have said so, as long as it is in force we do not enter to negotiate the Budgets, it is a condition – as would be said in mathematics – necessary but not enough, but it has to be given necessarily. But do you know what your partner, Mr. Martinez, the secretary general or president of your party, said, on account of whether without 155 the Budgets are better? He said, "It's Budgets made thinking of Euskadi. And of course, you say, for the PNV to support them. These are Budgets made thinking of Euskadi." Well, if you say that it's Budgets made thinking of Euskadi, it seems to coincide with the People's Party. We are clear what our condition is, our sine qua non
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Next, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u5	Good morning, everyone. Well, today we've got the motion that Podemos introduced to us and, as you all know, we've come to a half-way because he's included our proposal in his original proposition. So I'll try to explain why we've entered this correction, and why we accept the medium with Mr. Hernández. Because the problem is not to us what's going to happen in the 2018 state budgets, because it's not a problem for us at the 2017 state Preservations (0.25 included, among others). That's not the problem. It's a model problem for us. It's a budget model. Our problem is the state's budget model for today. And this budget model isn't a coincidence. It's not (because we have so much rain) a meteorology thing, it's a standard of budgets due to a political choice. Look, the budget model that is in force in the Spanish state – we used to put it in our amendment in a fairly simple and intelligible way – is a model based on extreme austerity (I would say a poor, very misunderstood austerity). I still remember the words of Pepe Múgica, saying that austerity had been prostituted in Europe. And you're absolutely right, because austerity is something else, but that's what is being done in the Spanish state. They are budgets and a budget model based on the frontal attack on the welfare state. They are budgets, they are a budgetary policy, they are a budgetary model based on bringing the public sector, public policies to their minimum expression. That is what is at the heart of the current budgetary model in the Spanish State. And that's the problem, not a Budget of the 17th or a Budget of the 18th. This comes from behind, quite behind, and has a lot on its bases. And, unfortunately, this budgetary model also affects us here, in the Basque Autonomous Community, in a certain way. Look, when we talk about the budget policy, and we talk about state budget policy (and we've talked a lot about the budget, and you know I usually talk about it), there are some things on the basis. And the budgets of the state are basically based on the Estability Act, the expense limit, the deficit limitations... And all these are the consequences of some political decision. The Law of Stability is a law that here, normally, more than one and more than two tries to take it off: "I didn't do it, I wasn't there, I didn't approve it...". Some of them abstained, but they didn't approve of it... But, of course, then the expenditure limits are reached and approved; then the deficit limits imposed by Mr Montoro are reached and accepted. And that's how some do budgetary policy. But that's right, then when the pensioners arrive we say yes, we go out with them on the banner, we say we support them in all their demands; but when we have to do, where I said, I say Diego. Look, the General Budgets of the State for 2018 that Mr. Montoro has presented... It is true that they did not go to the mobilizations of the pensioners, but obviously some cry came to him in the Moncloa, and he has decided to make General State Budgets with purely and strictly electoral measures, with regard to the pensioners, with regard to the officials of the State, or with regard to the police, civil guards, etc., among other collectives. In other words, they are Budgets that have only been concerned to put patches on those issues that could apparently have an electoral effect on that electoral marimagnum that is becoming Spanish politics. And I say patches, of course, because they have only been concerned to boast of measures that they believe may be able to silence our elders in their demands. But that the system can be made sustainable, to give it a long-term... , already, "yet... such", as that famous president would say. We'll see about that. And worry about the income, "yeah... so," too. I mean, we're worried about doing some measurements, some pildoritas, like the one said, red, that look pretty. But, on the other hand, of course, we also have to settle and reach agreements with other forces and, then, incomes, instead of worrying about increasing them, we make them lower, because as everything seems to be going well in the Spanish economy, that Spanish economy where pensioners who pay less than the inter-professional minimum wage are more than 5 million, where youth unemployment is one of the highest in Europe and it is absolutely shameful, where in the Budgets it is said that obviously employment is being created because unemployment benefits are being reduced (of course, it is voluntarily forgotten that there are so many long-term unemployed in the Spanish state that they no longer even have the right to unemployment benefits).... But that's also "yet... such," as that famous president of government said. And that's what we got on the table. Then it's clear to us. These policy of budgets (as we speak of previous policy) do not respond to society in general, but of course they do not answer pensioners at all. No way! And everyone will know their responsibility in these policies. Begiratu, azkenengo egunetan nolabaiteko kanpaina bat piztu da zenbait komunikabidetan, zenbait politicikariren artean, aurrekontu hauen onurak goraipatzen. I have come to think that they were the budgets of the "world" and the, I don't know, the best country in the world, because some press headlines, honestly, were amazing, amazing. We have also heard a representative of the People's Party making warnings to sailors. And those navigators, we all know who they are. It is the ladies and gentlemen, not of this bench, but yes your classmates in Madrid, or the Euzkadi Buru Batzar, or whatever you negotiate those stories (which is not the place of intervention), and put on the table those investments in the train, all these things that will generate employment... Guys, if it were for all the jobs that are generated in this country by every budget that some sign, I don't know why young people don't have a job in this country. I don't understand! Because in three, seven thousand, three thousand... They don't give me the numbers, honestly, they don't give me the numbers! Again they insist that pensioners, widows, people worry us, pa, pa, pa..., but the most growing departure is the expenditure of Defense in the Spanish State, far above even the pension shares. So, they're still in it. And I insist, it's a question of model, it's a question of model. A model that doesn't look at society. And of a very concrete ideology, which is very clear that the smaller the public sector, the smaller the state itself, in its generic definition, not the Spanish state, the better for them. Because these State budgets have lower public spending than GDP, even in 2007, even in 2007. They contain record revenues that no one knows very well where they're going to come from, even the tax agency's own employees didn't just believe it. The UN tells them to please start putting the batteries, which they cannot be following in this path of austerity (wrongly understood, as I said previously)... But it is that, I insist, all these measures and this budgetary policy, and this policy of reducing pensions and leaving all our pensioners in a situation closer to poverty than to a dignified life, is not a question of the consequences of the economic crisis as they have wanted to sell us, it is a question of political decision, of country model, of budget model and of what everyone wants for the future of their country. And what you want for the future of the country is this, because you are now filled with words about pensioners and civil servants' salaries, but you forget the job reform that you have made that has made poor workers a reality in the state and also in our Autonomous Community. They forget the cuts in health, the cuts in education, and all those issues...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u6	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u7	Yeah, yeah, I'm just finishing up. Last sentence, Mrs. President, I'd appreciate it. And all that's on the table. It is not just 155; there is much more in these Budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u9	I have to admit that Mrs Pinedo did surprise me. But to the members of the Bureau, that in one month we have three debates on pensions seems a little excessive so that we can go along with this that we could not repeat issues at the same session. Well, it's starting to be already, anyway, at least curious. Mr Hernández tells us that more and more people are worried about pensions and they are right. Because there are groups like yours that are getting more and more concerned about people, because they know that you pensions and pensioners care about a cumin. Yeah, yeah. You'd prefer me to break the system. But look at the contradiction between Mrs Pinedo's speech and hers, which Mrs Pinedo has told us that these budgets are electoralists, because they have measures in favour of pensioners. And you tell us that no, that it's against, and they're going to vote the same. And then you say, well, let's see, what are we here for? Have we come here to talk about pensions and pensioners? No! No! We have come to talk about the State Budgets. I suppose you have read us part of the amendment to the whole that, in the end, your leader in Madrid will read when he touches. I do not know if they are going to do the same in Asturias, in the Canary Islands and in Navarre, because there are also groups there that supported the Budgets of the Government of Spain and also need their votes. So, I don't know if you'll present the same thing there, even if you rule, to talk about pensioners, right? Because the PNV did approve the Budgets last year, but there were also shipwrecks, there were also Asturians and there were also canaries. Are they going to do the same thing or are they going to forget? Or are you going to forget? Because this is the end of this "motion", because if I read what you have brought us, it tells us: First point: "The 2017 State Budgets have seriously harmed Basque citizens and, in particular, pensioners." That's a lie, and you know it. But they did criticize those pacts. They said that, in short, the Basques were very beneficial but it was bad for the rest of the Spaniards. And now they say it's bad for the Basques too? And the second point tells us that "it has to be ensured that pensions are updated in the budgets according to the CPI". Hey, twice as much as the planned CPI. The budget is twice as high as 3%. When the expected CPI does not reach one and a half. Nor to the one and a half comes and a revaluation of 3% is expected! It bothers you. It bothers you, because you'd like them to go down 3% to get your speech. It is for what they are for, to speak and to act against the interests of pensioners and Basque pensioners, and against the interests of the whole world. And that's why people are increasingly worried about their pensions, because they know that if you ever ruled, you'd go all out and stop charging them. And of course there is growing concern. Isn't there going to be? If you just need to hear them. They don't care! They don't care! And those gentlemen go the same way, but they will know. They were supposed to be a government party. It says, "We are the champions of budgetary adjustment." Hey, yeah. But the adjustment is well understood. And in everything but pensions and pensioners – I told you the other day, this is a repetitive debate – the only sector of the population that has not lost purchasing power has been pensioners. The only one. He was also upset about the salary being raised to staff members. Yeah, yeah, man, sure, he's an electoralist and he's a wink. Sure, it's a wink. And then he tells us he's threatened. No, no, It is that, let's see, in this Parliament we have approved – some, not all of them – but some of us have approved that the salary should be raised to one and a half points; but we all know that if there are no budgets in the 18th and the 17th is extended, the increase is 1 %. Those who vote against the State Budgets of 18 are therefore opposed to a 1.5% salary increase for Basque officials. Of course, that is acting for the benefit of the Basque officials, in this case, no longer for the police and equal pay, of course. The State budget provides for an increase of even more than 1.7 %. But that's what we're talking about, those state budgets, isn't it? And you haven't given us any pension arguments. None. The speech has been made, also Mrs Pinedo, the speech of the budgets: "the rich, such, I don't know what, the sectors, I don't know how many, they manage, they mangone, such, to the detriment of the people". To the detriment of the people act you. They said, "It's not like the investments..." Let's see, look, these are budgets (probably you will be very upset, but I have to tell you) that they comply with the agreements signed with the unions. They comply with the agreements signed with the trade unions. A maximum expected increase of 8 % over three years. You'll be upset, because I suppose you're anti-unionist. Fill in with that. Those budgets that you come here to oppose and that you will oppose in Madrid. Comply with the agreements signed with the trade unions. It is in line with the state pact, which we are voting for all groups, and I believe that even its own, against gender-based violence, will provide it with 200 million euros. Then they'll say there's no money. It also complies with that covenant that you all signed. And that goes in those Budgets. And it clearly complies with the pact with the other autonomous communities to increase its funding by almost €5 billion. And it fulfils last year's pacts that are extended and that have to have their continuity in the budget of the 18th and that obviously affect us Basques, go if they affect us. Of course they affect us. I don't know if it's on the Basque "Y" agenda. I am not going to extend much longer, but it is clear that there are investments in the Basque Country of nearly EUR 1 billion in these Budgets. I do not know if the Basque Government is going to invest EUR 1 billion this year in the Basque Country; the Government of Spain, yes (well, if there are clear budgets, you forgive). But since it's bad, it's bad for employment, investment, it doesn't generate employment, it destroys it, as we've heard from Mrs. Pinedo... For we will have to tell them that, in the end, they are budgets (man, as everything in this life is improveable)..., but, in the end, we have never seen State budgets that benefit so many Basques individually. Of course, pensioners, up 3%, 66,000, Mr Hernández, Basques. I'm sorry, I'm saying for you, that I'd be happy that you'd get hurt even more. No, 66.099, to be exact, affected by the 3% increase. Of course, widow's pensions, which go up the regulatory base from 52 to 54 and are expected to go up to 60 the following year, are about 32,200 widows, who will be increased by more than 250 euros a year. I know it bothers you, I'm so sorry. While you are to harm people, we are to solve people's problems, within our limitations and knowing what revenues and expenses are. Man, also, look at you, that there have a certain advantage, I say the pensioners of the rest of Spain, because as here we have the tax competition, because the reduction in the IRPF that is provided for in those Budgets... Mr Lehendakari, take note: the IRPF is reduced especially to pensioners with incomes below EUR 18,000 and exemption in the IRPF up to EUR 14,000. Therefore, another supplement to the increase in these pensions. I know it bothers you, but this is what comes in the State Budgets that you have come out to criticize and you have forgotten to tell us. Because you forgot to tell us about this. You've told us a movie here. A movie! And the officials, who are also an electoralist according to Mrs. Pinedo... Hey, if he's an electoralist, he'll be! It's just that people ask... That's being an electoralist, doing demagogy, doing what people ask, right? Then, these Budgets collect what people ask for, what has been negotiated with the unions, and with pensioners, not with those who go out on the street, which gives them anything: when they ask for the CPI to be equal, the CPI is equal; when the CPI is exceeded, let it be something else. We are a serious party, Mr Hernández, Mrs Pinedo; we are indeed responsible for pensioners being able to collect pensions and we will continue to be. And besides, we're going to try to get more and more pensions, but above all by guaranteeing them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u11	Well, the Socialist Group is very pleased and would like to thank the debate on pensions for returning to its central point today. As we said on the last occasion that we had, at the last plenary session we celebrated, it was really a matter of substance, of consolidating a public system that would guarantee the income adequacy of retired persons' homes or, as article 50 of the Constitution literally says, as the pensioners remind us every Monday on the streets, that "the public authorities would guarantee, through adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during the elderly". Because we believe that, even if that was not his will, the previous time there was a risk of diverting the debate towards complements and that only serves for some to get the lump sum to run, and whoever gets it to run, who continues to run it with scarring proposals or blackmailers is who today is at the head of the Government of Spain, Mr Damborenea, and has a legal obligation to guarantee those pensions sufficient for today and for the future. The one who proposes to an impoverished pensioner group, after denying the largest, after denying that impoverishment, that its improvement must be conditioned on the personal political future of the President of the Government. The one that proposes to an impoverished working class, which was deprived of protection by labour reform, that saves wages that do not cover the most basic expenses. And I don't think you can keep cheating. The future of the public pension system in Spain does not depend on the future of the general state budgets that you have presented or on the future of Mr Rajoy. The future of the public pension system depends on the repeal of the 2013 law that you passed with your absolute majority and abusing with prepotence the head of the executive that you continue to preside. It depends on repealing the discounting of the increments by 0.25 and their connection to the CPI, which was established by the previous law, which had been agreed between different parties at the previous stage. It depends on the removal of the sustainability factor you have invented to burden the public system and promote a private savings system, to promote a dual retirement system, in which a minority with potential can pay for it and a majority of pensioners remain poor. It also depends on the Government abandoning its arrogance and assuming the urgency of seeking a new agreement that passes through other added sources of income sustainability, such as the elimination of all social security expenditures that are not strictly benefits, the charging of such expenditures to the General Budgets and the settlement of new forms of income, also analysing tax figures. And it seems to us that enough blackmail is enough. If we accept those criteria that we share mostly in this House, and which are also shared in a majority and plural way in the Congress of Deputies, we will be responding to that demand of the nine million pensioners in Spain, half a million here in Euskadi. Because what you propose with your draft budget, it is true, is a 3% increase. For how long? For this year? If you do not change the 2013 rules, the following year we will be in the same situation, with 0.25, and the next, and the next. And it will depend on the grace that you want to do or not do, depending on your specific political interests, so that the damage that the manifestations of pensioners, you understand, are doing to your electoral expectations is mitigated. And that's why you pick up those increases, but that's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. If we do not amend the law that contains the procedure of increase, then next year we could have a major increase, which I would be glad to see, for minimum pensions. And the next one? And in the years to come, who guarantees pensioners financial sufficiency? Not you, of course. It will depend on whether they still have a tight heel, because they are eating their toast from the other party on the right of this country and want to take that risk away. That is why we say that the solution of pensions is not by approving this year's budgets; it is by repealing the limitations imposed five years ago, by repealing the labour reform that unprotects workers and by recalling something that this Government has very much forgotten. But the truth is that we have doubts that it will be done this way, we have doubts because Mr Rajoy, since entering the Moncloa, already had a plan. A plan, a model for this country, was to dismantle gradually and one by one the pillars of the state of well-being that have been underpinned by public health, public education and public pensions, all of which have been decreasing in recent years and with serious problems. And tides of all kinds have appeared, both in terms of education and health, as in that of the pensioners now. Not everyone's going to be wrong and you're the only ones who're right. That's the citizen's perception. Medicinal product That is why we are going to support the proposal that is being brought here today, because we share that the current budgets have impoverished a substantial part of the citizenry and because we share that the project that is now being presented will continue without realising the income of the elderly. And because it is false that the strengthening of the public system goes by approving these accounts. That is already deception that, believe me, none of the pensioners who go out on the street or who do not go out but are also angry with you are believed. Our commitment is clear. We have been able to lead the consolidation of a public pension system from the first governments of democracy, in the midst of severe crises such as those we have experienced in Euskadi, to which we have incorporated those who, for various reasons, had not even been able to contribute. We were able to lead between 2004 and 2011 the agreements that increased minimum pensions – and now I will give you official data, not from the Socialist Party – by 50%, twice the increase in inflation, and up to 66% for widowhood. We leave the way clear to follow that path, with a saving of 70 billion euros and we leave open the forum of the agreement to face new measures, in the face of the incorporation to the retirement of the generation of the baby boom That's all the flow you've been squandering and that's the way you have to try to recover. We are going to maintain that commitment and we are not going to avoid the responsibility we have here to take care of those who have taken off on the road, because, as public authorities in Euskadi, we are also concerned by Article 50 of the Constitution in the provision of social services, in the compensation for pharmaceutical meals, in the aid to take care of their bills, in the right to housing, in the income supplements through the GIR. And in the latter we want to reach those who do not arrive now: those grandparents and grandmothers who have had to take care of their impoverished descendants – even if they work – of the grandchildren who have had to take refuge in pensions that were not intended for this attention. To help them despite trance, not to create a parallel system that saves the Government of Spain from its responsibility, with all those we contribute in solidarity, in a system that is solidarity between generations and between territories. That is why, with the same clarity with which the Socialists are going to support today the proposal brought to us by Elkarrekin We can, without nuances, reiterate to you the hand extended to participate in the agreements to improve the social protection system in what is our responsibility here. The same as today's proposal does not in itself serve to guarantee pensions that provide sufficient resources to our elderly, the reform of the GIR will not satisfy all the aspirations we have, but, of course, we urgently need to reach many families that we do not now reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u13	Mrs Gorospe asked us to clarify the objectives of our initiative. I think I have explained them more or less clearly, but of course I have no problem in re-explaining to you what the objectives of our initiative are. I said that in my previous speech. Firstly, that the Basque Parliament, which is the representative chamber of Euskadi, of our Autonomous Community, is clearly expressing at the moment an opinion which we believe is absolutely majority in the streets and which is being expressed in the streets by a multitude of demonstrations. An initiative that is based, among other things, on expressing the rejection of the State's general budgets that are damaging, we understand – and they also understand, because they are saying it this week on the streets – are damaging to the situation of pensioners, those of Euskadi and those of the whole State. Because my group is concerned about the situation of the people of our Autonomous Community (and we are dealing with these issues in this Parliament with specific initiatives that you know well, in which we sometimes agree with you and many times not, but which we bring to this Parliament), and we are also concerned about the situation of the people of the rest of the state. And we are also proud of this approach. And to reaffirm, as a third objective, in particular, that agreement reached on 1 March, in particular, because all the groups we are voting for say that we remain in that agreement. But it is that the first test of fire of that agreement comes with these General Budgets of the State, because the General Budgets of the State do execute (I have said that they execute) that loss of purchasing power in this year 2018. They're running it. And, therefore, it seems to us, and this is what we have come to say with the initiative, that to support these General Budgets is to betray one of the contents of that agreement that we reached on 1 March, which is the defense of an increase in pensions at this time under the CPI for all pensioners. You ask us whether we are concerned about the pensioners of Euskadi or whether we are concerned about the "General Budgets of Madrid", as you have said. The General Budgets are not from Madrid; the General Budgets of the State are General Budgets of the State and affect us all and all those who live in the Spanish State, we like to more or less belong to the Spanish State or belong, as is my case, to this model of Spanish State. And, therefore, we, when we care about the Euskadi pensioners and we care about the State General Budgets, understand that we are worrying about the same thing, because those Budgets affect us. And that is why we thought it was important for this Parliament to manifest itself in this regard. And it seems to me that it is also an exercise in self-government that the Basque Parliament expresses itself on issues which, although addressed in other institutions, affect us as a whole in Basque society. And today I have heard a coincidence that I find worrying between Mr Damborenea and you, Mrs Gorospe, when you tell us about what happens if the General Budgets – in this case the State, but it could happen with other budgets, even those of a city council –, what happens when they are not approved. That's absolute blackmail. That is to say, if we do not approve general budgets, they are extended and everything is much worse in your opinion and, therefore, no one, no political party, no coalition, no group could ever oppose budgets. That's what I heard here today. Man, sure. Therefore, that argument seems to us to be a blackmail argument and we are concerned to hear you share it with the People's Party. We also find it worrying to hear today again the contempt of those who manifest themselves in the streets. Especially today for Mr Damborenea once again, who says that good that these people are people who go out because yes, to ask more and more, and if it is granted that the pensions are updated according to the IPC, then they will ask for a villa in Marbella or something like that. That seems to us to be an absolute contempt for the people who honestly go out on the streets these days. And finally tell them too, Mrs Gorospe, that you are talking about the Basque agenda a lot, and you have said here today that you are going to Madrid to worry about Euskadi and that the rest, well, without harming but like they don't care. Well, first of all, tell him – because it's important to me – that we do care. We do care what also in those Budgets affects people living in other nations and in other territories of the State. We do care. But it is also that these Budgets affect us, as I said, everyone, and in concrete terms, as we speak today (the pensions), the adoption of these Budgets affects the Basque pensioners. The General Budgets of the State are also "Basque agenda" we like more or we like less.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u15	I thought for a moment, Mrs. Pindo, that you'd like to run the Madrid there. The whole speech you made, well, but absolutely Spanish budget and Spanish speech as a whole. And you said, well, the budgets have introduced the "como los mejores del Mundial" expression. Well, in front of that, the president of our party said clearly: "Menos propaganda," and the President said, "be it, when they are mentioned, the agreements of 2017 are to be concluded by themselves. You've often heard me say "Tricks, nuns, devils." The word is spoken, and the bargain is made for this, to repeat it. It's true. It is true, Mr Hernández, that the General Budgets are not from Madrid, they are from the State, and these are its objectives. I do not say that those who have been to Congress do not worry the rest of the state, what happens is that it is not their area of intervention, it is not their area of decision. We are going to Madrid to defend the Basque agenda, the interests of Euskadi and Basque society alone and exclusively. The Basques and the Basques. But let us not worry, let us be indifferent... That's distorting the speech. It's so much like saying – now that I'm seeing you here – that Councilman Erkoreka cares about a cucumber what Arriola's department... Well, he cares about his own, which is why he chose the lehendakari. And we voters when we run for election choose us with a task. We run for election with an election program and try to be consistent with that, and that's what we stand for without entertaining ourselves with other things, focusing on what we are. That's what I said, not that I didn't... Su objectivo, evidente, ya sé cuall es. I know what yours is. Spain, Spain, Spain... Again and again. And this argument you make here is "la anesal," the discourse that made in Madrid next week and next week. This is what you do, what I said to you before: Losing the chances for political portunism to make politics. Because people choose us to talk, to dialogue, to make politics. They choose us for that. And the first thing we would have to do with the pension debate right now is disconnect it from the general state budgets, Mr Hernández. The first thing we'd have to do. Because, as you well know, the debate on the public pension system is a debate that requires broad political consensus – I believe that that agreement of 1 March, indeed, was a good agreement and it was on that line – it needs an independent and comprehensive debate as a whole. Serene, far from such disputes, because we are not contributing anything, if every time you believe that you set the picture, wear the image of a government, of a political party, you will use it and you will take the banner of pensions and pensioners to go and try to put certain political formations or governments in situations that may seem contradictory to you. We have a clear idea of the situation in which widows and pensions are placed here, better than anywhere else, por cyto, octo, o señor Hernández. What's done in Basques isn't done anywhere else. They've begun to take a step in the Navarre government to improve the state of widows and pensioners, but they're still far away from us. For where ye are alone, or with the Socialist Party, what ye should first do is this: Make sure you're on the move, so we can get you guys there. And in the meantime let's treat pensioners with respect. And the first thing they ask us is to leave them alone, so that we don't use them for our partial interests. We weren't on the march, we were in the country, we were with the people, we were with the village, not the pancartan head. Let's do politics in women – as much as you like it. Not only women, women and men, but women, because they say that collaboration is a characteristic characteristic of women. Let us stop competing and work together to improve the situation of the widows and pensioners of Euskadi. Hori da gure ardura nagusia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours. Ah, EH Collect... I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I want you to collect EH, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u17	Good morning again. I'll take my word. Mr. Herndez... We know, and he knows that we agree with what he said, and that's why we've come to agree. Damborena jaunaren diskurtsoa, ba, betiko moduan, niri ez zait ezer iuditu beer. It is clear that the People's Party in Madrid always does everything well – well, almost always, I leave it there – but, Mr.Damborenea, there has been a sincere phrase that seemed a little hurtful to me. When you talked about the pensioners who go out on the street and you dropped that you don't know very well what they go out for, that you've already been worried about negotiating with who you had to negotiate with. Man, I hope it was a lapsus, I sincerely hope it was a lapsus, because I really think it's a very serious phrase, if that's really what you think of the pensioners who every Monday go out to the streets of our cities, here, in our country, to ask for and demand dignity and decent pensions because they want to lead a dignified life. Gorospe anderea, gaur nirekin ez zara askotan zentratu, nahiago zenuen Hernandez jauna, éta esaten didazu Espainiako klabean hitz egin doubt it... Baina gauza da jatorrizko mozioa Espainiako klabean zegoela, beraz, if in the motion he speaks of the General Budgets of the State, I speak of the General Budgets of the State. Es más, le tengo que decir que me soprende, and I really think... Well, I knew you'd say that, it's not much of a novel, but when you tell me that, here, a party of your party in a discussion about pensions, was his sentence: "Pensies are the jurisdiction of the state, the responsibility of state is to establish pensions, pensions, and we can't always stay here in the absence of the state." That's why I had to talk about the state today. I had to talk. I know where to do this. And I have talked about the budget model and I have talked, it is true, about electoral measures, because that is what I think. Because they don't have anything behind them, they don't have a substrate, they haven't bothered to wear them with income, they haven't bothered to work for a future system. Because while presenting that, Mr. Damborenea has already been concerned – and expected no less from you – to make this small drop in the IRPF clear, and to leave the Basque Nationalist Party to the shock that it also takes it into account. But you know as well as I do that most of the pensioners who are collecting poverty pensions, that thing that you say you are going to do in the IRPF neither touch nor rub them, because it is because you do not pay IRPF, because your pensions are so miserable that you don't even have the "honor" to make an income statement now in spring. Therefore, let us leave behind measures that we all know that their impact is rather nil or insignificant. Begira, lehenengo hitzaldian, Gorospe anderek esan of the 155aren baldintza beharrezkoa zela baina ez nahikoa, eta gero Ortuzar jaunaz hitz egin didazu. I listened carefully to Mr Ortuzar's interview the other day when he was asked – I came to count four times – whether they were going to submit an amendment to the general budgets of the state, and very skillfully he said nothing, he said nothing because these general budgets of the state follow the path of the general budgets of the state that the Basque Nationalist Party did approve. You say that you have the Basque agenda and worry about not harming the rest, but it turns out that you agree policies with the People's Party (State General Budgets, spending limits and many other issues), with those parties that have dedicated themselves to doing, for example, labor reforms that have led to poor workers in the Spanish State. You tell me that you want decent pensions and all those issues, but it is you who support the People's Party, which has made pensions that unfortunately have to continue to be paid by the Basque pensioners... Because you were telling me that I speak a lot about Spain, but the reality is that, as you continue where you are, unfortunately, we will have to pull too many years talking about Spain and what Spain does and influences Basques and, of course, pensioners and pensioners too, and this is a key issue. And 155 will be a necessary condition for you, but the problem is that 155, and the consequences of 155, do not disappear with the formation of government in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Popular. Mr. Damboena, now the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u19	The truth is that I am surprised, because so unanimously criticising the General Budgets of the state and classify them as "singing", "doing electoralism"... But let us see, but what happens to you, those who are asking for the vote against those Budgets, which I will not tell you, Mrs Pinedo, that you are the best in the world, because you are improveable a little, but almost, but almost, given the answers... They tell us it's a blackmail because if you don't vote... If you don't vote, everyone knows what's going on, the 2017 ones are being extended. Yes, Mr Hernandez, those of the 17, those that the rise of pensions, how much was it? Of 0.25? That's what you want; you don't want 3% up, you want 2017 to be extended. Sure. And Mr. Pastor, the same for you. Is this blackmail? No, no, You know that if you do not approve this happens, you know that the rise to the Basque officials of the 1.5 depends on changing the one of the 17 (which is the 1). But you know that. This is not blackmail, blackmail is cheating on citizens by telling them the opposite of what it is. You're blackmailing the citizens. Mr. Pastor, tell us the problem is that the system has to go back to the IPC, but if you skipped it, you froze it, and the system what it said, it had to go up the IPC. And what happened? Frozen, out, eliminated. Is this the big solution? And then he says, "No, it's that citizen perception..." Man, citizen perception is the one that the media sells and the one that some politicians sell. Let you tell me that the public pension system has decreased, which has only increased (until that year of Mr Zapatero's freezing, expenditure on pensions has increased, only by the new ones coming in each year, if it already accounts for 40% of the entire State budget, 40%). What do you mean, it's decreased? It is only growing, from last year to this year in more than 5 billion euros, in more than 5 billion euros. 144,834 million euros is what the social security system costs all Spaniards today. Mrs. Pinedo, what comes to us from Madrid? I told you the other day, this is about repeating the debates, as 3 billion so that pensioners and Basque pensioners can collect their pension. That is what comes from Madrid, and from the other Spanish workers, with their contributions, and from the State Budgets. I was told by the two that little less I insulted the ladies and gentlemen who go out on the street. That is not true, but you will be with me when those who call you ask you to go over the CPI, and when the rise above the CPI, more than twice the CPI, changes, and now you have to go out to go against the State Budgets. Look, everyone can do whatever they want, but you'll understand to me that, in the end, I think someone manipulates this, right? Because if we're changing the call based on what's interesting... Then people will come out, each in favor, against, or half-boarder, but it's obvious that someone is changing calls and why they're leaving and why they're leaving... Let's see, the PNV defends the Basque agenda in Madrid. I do not know exactly what Catalan nationalists have to do with the Basque agenda of the PNV or with the agreements reached last year. I do know that these same Catalan nationalists denounced in Brussels an agreement on the electricity tariff which particularly affects Basque workers and entrepreneurs, and what I do not know exactly, but this at some point the Basque Nationalist Party will have to explain to us, why we must defend those who go against the agreements which benefit Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u21	Well, briefly because I think it's almost all said, but something I can't stop telling Mr. Damborenea. First, I repeat, between 2004 and 2011, Socialist government in Spain with José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, pensions rose by an average of 50% and widowhood pensions by 66. And it is true, as you say, that in 2011 only high pensions (from 1,000 euros) were frozen, and the rest continued to rise above the CPI. And finally, when I tell you that you do a "right blackmail," it's true, because you come to say "or you approve Rajoy's Budgets or pensions don't go up." Do what you really need to do: repeal that 2013 reform, eliminate the sustainability factor, and then maybe we can start talking about whether the Budgets are good or bad. Because you are now absolutely saddened by the election polls, because you have a huge electoral market – or had it – among the over 60s and you are seeing that you can go, and so that you do not run away or cover the leak, you have thrown a cane with a hook that has a bait, and the bait is this year we climb you 3%. This year. What you forget to say is that for the one who comes to the best, there is nothing or perhaps we have put the financial viability of the system at risk again. That's what he forgets to say. Anyway, I already understand that you have to put crochets, where you can hook up, see if we can demobilize one part of the officials, another part of the security forces, another part of the pensioners, and thus minimize the damage. But that is not the serious Budgets, Mr Damborenea; they are budgets of appeasement, of ailment, of agony of the last moment – I hope it is true that this is the last moment left for you in the Government of Spain. We want to make a real bet on the future of pensions, and for that we need to do much more than a one-year budget allocation in the State Budgets, which is what you have done. Nothing more. You still do not guarantee the pensioners' financial sufficiency in the future. No, no, They do it very shortly, for next year, that is, as long as you save my face politically and approve my budgets. It is not the Budgets that cause the problem of pensions in Spain; it is the impoverishment that you have caused by your measures, in a pension system that had problems but was solvent and that is beginning to cease to be so thanks to the actions that you are carrying out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Since the discussion is over, shall we vote... Yes, Miss Gorospe?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u23	We have seen that in the middle of the middle-direction the text of the rectification we've entered has been entered into at the last point, and if there's no problem with the legal teams who've signed the middle term and if it's possible, we'd ask to vote on the fourth side of that point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u24	All right, all right. Is there a problem, Mr. Hernandez? Mrs. Pindo? Sí, qué? That it can be divided into points, right? Then we vote for 1, 2, and 3 points first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u25	So the first three points have been accepted. Next, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u26	So the fourth point is accepted. Second point on the subject list: "To collect the proposition of the law of Parliament, concerning the obligation to fulfil the State of Guernica as a whole. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ugarte, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u27	Good morning. Mr. President, chief physician, members of the legislature. Today I have legs here, but I have my head in Madrid-and I'd like to start like this: and I am glad to hear them at the present moment, as politicians enter politics, and to fill up the programmes that enter governments. That's why I don't understand why these two people are judging in Madrid for fulfilling a political program today. I want to send them a big kiss from here and I hope justice will be done. This is what I'm going to do today. Today's spot is fairly consistent. We're talking about this point 39 years later today. This should not be on the political calendar, and unfortunately it is. Unfortunately I also say that some of the members of EH have also been rather sceptical about the State of Guernica. Even if it had been admitted and confirmed in the General Court and among the inhabitants of the EAE, between the Bizkai, the Gipulia, and the inhabitants of the Arabs, though it had been confirmed, some of us have been sufficiently sceptical from the beginning, and this must be admitted. But if it is to be true, it is better to be this than to be nothing, and so it is. And it would be better if this were fully developed and full. 39 years later, an organic law isn't full... , if we could explain in the world the supreme law, it is no more than a law, on the law. Today, few of us have the illusion that he had in '79, that he believes we could do serious policies in this country and auto-generacy policies in this country. A minor political who sets up his veto, strong in Madrid, almost residual here. In 1997, ELA said that the state was dead, and somehow it was a quantum leap, because other large sectors were almost confessing this state... (I do not think that the state is dead; I dare say it has not yet been born, for it is not yet full of the present.) And ever since that time these sectors, with great illusions-and they took it, are becoming more and more disappointed, and we see more and more limits, because it hasn't been filled, evident. And this I say, I have declared independence, but many who are not declared independent, and many say so too. And that's why we have, among other things, a self-reference in this Parliament, and that's why we hear Mr. President mention that he hasn't signed and confirmed this state in 1979. So today we can say that we're constitutionalist, stateistic. I'm not a historicalist, history is never a matter I like, but I think today, to be just, we must see what is the state's development, to understand better what point we are in today and what the state is using. It was the first philosophy of this state to make a kind of compact, and to make a kind of acknowledgment or renunciation of some historical rights. That is to say, the inhabitants of the EAE but that we had these historical rights, and that we had such rights, and that the State considered them, and somehow granted to the population of EAE a distinct state, which approved these historical rights. At the beginning of the first phase of the development of the state, in the time of Suárez, and in the time of Philip Gonzale, it is true that the development of this state was fairly rapid during that period when Nikolaa and 86 transfers were accepted, but we saw it gradually raciling. What happened? Well, those who originally were made in rather automatic ways, then they were used "como mecanism de cambio," Mercandering. And I'll give you two examples. In the Aznar Government, where the Major had been deprived of the absolute majority, he transferred nine transfers, and in the case of the Rodríguez to Zaparchus, 15th. But how do you get these transfers? Do they seem to be entitled to some acknowledged rights? Or are they given in exchange for an inquest session, given in exchange for a few budgets, for supporting a government? They're given in exchange for something. And there's a process of mercury in the state. And so someone will say it's my paranoia, but this is what the Vice President said in 2002, and he said, in text, a sentence that I liked very much: "Ha habida que pagor por lo que es nuestro." And this has at last become the development of the State, the whole seriousness of this organic law, has become in it; "Ha habida que pagor por lo que es nuestro." This is something that is unacceptable. And once from that time of the Zapatero Rodríguez, only a couple of lines have been transferred to the railway line, and there's the canals, the Rehens. And this is the system we have at the moment: the stateist desert, the application of the legislation, and, I believe, a gigantic political fraud, which overthrows those promises which were made in 79. Of the hands we have missed, some are more symbolic, some more symbolic; The two, who are still at the ball for the present day: one of the prison transfers and the other of the economic aspect of Social Security. What is the position of Spain? Well, De Andrés gave us the New Year's present, giving us a press conference, and explaining a little what the position of the Spanish Government was in this subject. And it's very curious what argument the Spanish Government makes use of, isn't it? On the one hand, we are told that the principal sub-structures which have no transferrience are of general interest. That is to say, the Spanish Government fights for general interest so many infrastructurees, and if they are of general interest, they cannot be transferred. All the sub-structions of the EAE are therefore of general interest, and therefore cannot be transferred. Primer nive argal Seconds Nikola argali anbito seconds nivel harmental And the third: Of the Constitutional Tribunal. The amulet of the Constitution of the Tribunal is very important because, knowing that this court is bought, and that it is the interpretation of the Constitution, it is all inconstinental that everything is ♪ And here, for instance, as far as Social Security is concerned, is the point of the single box every moment. And besides, it is not for us to have the jurisdiction of Social Security, because as long as there is a hole in 3,000 million, which Spain assigns to us in a very generous manner, and which is not fit for us to comply with this organic law. If, then, we add to all this that De Andrés says that even the state of Catalonia is to be considered, and when the state of Catalonia is turned off, if, by the use of his words, we shall be able to speak, we see what the will of the Spanish Government is. Besides this we have another element, and that the Sánz de Santamarí has no intention of forming any mixed committee in front of all the petitions of Erkoe. Beraz, nik uste dut Espainiaren mezua bear garbia of her age Jesús María Posada ministerak bere garian esan zuen bezala, "complying with the Statute is incompatible with the Spanish Constitution". That one was sincere! "Compliance with the Statute is incompatible with the Spanish Constitution." Yeah, they're deathe the rattlesnakes, aren't they? Esan dezatela garbi! Before that, I think it's three things we have to do, politicians from EAE, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know? Three very important things. One was not to cheat the people. First and most important. I think the people can't cheat. It must be said to the people that this state has no sufficient property, that this state is short-footed, and that it is therefore intervented at all times, and that it has no more occasion for development to-day. Esaten zaigu Europako autogovernu-mailarik altuenetako bat daukala EAek, éta hori gezurra da, denok dakigu, éta hori ére esan behar da. Ezin dugu esan EAEK daukala Europako autogovernu-mailarik altuenetako bat, ze hori da gezurra. Bestela, the results account the results account the results account of the Statute of Gernika the results account I do not think that we ought to do a good balance in this legislature on account of the development of this state, nor on account of its perfection, because we see it in the most important challenges and bets which we have in everyday life, and the limits of our state are wholly applied to. So I think we should ask this honesty. Bigarrena, Estatu spainiarrari ultimatum bat posetu behar zario. An ultimatum must be presented to the Spanish Government, an ultimatum, with a date: six months. I believe that this is more than enough time for the Spanish Government to answer us and tell us what plan, programme and timetable for the transfer of transfers it has. I think we've waited 39 years, we can wait six more months, but that's enough. And this can't be un ruego mercury For, of course, we speak of the law and who has to apply the law? Only those who are independent? Only those who are superfluous must we apply laws? Isn't the Spanish Government supposed to apply its laws? I think it's very important to consider that. And then, finally, and for the purpose of planning a job here, we've been hearing a lot of the last few times that 155 supposes an involvence, that there's a temptation in the state to appeal to that evolution, a temptation to take away and shrink what we have, and that the Basque People are listening to various statements, in one sense or another. In the plan of "Virgin, virgin, let me stay as I am," "Daukaguna, gutxianez, kontserbatu dezagun"... We don't think the moment is the stately defense, for an autonomist defense. We believe that this is the loss of an important political battle at this moment, that it is a retreat, for 39 years, or at least 30 years. And we think that such expressions are not adequate. We join involution. It is true that there is a strong temptation to this evolution with the conflict in the state, but it is true that we have an automatic autonomy too. We don't have 155, but we've got the Tribunal National, we've got our statements LOAPA, everything we don't give us, we've got an autonomy-State not developed, recursos de inconsccionalid, conflicos de compencia. I'd like to make a small mention of poetry too. They seem not to be the moments in this form, and to be tempted to give the right to PSE; and I think that is not the right way (and in this case I mean Podemosi). I don't think it's right to put that right to PSE. And I believe that what we are to do here is a true democratic plan, a democratic project in poncientia and society, a democratic project to acknowledge the character of this people, and to secure the right of determining it to this people. And that will be our greatest guarantee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u28	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u29	I'll finish it now. Eta amaitu nahi nuke Idoia Zenarruzabeitaren ealdi batekin honen harira, iruditzen zaidana bear inportantea of her: "... He has always felt that the 'better to have something than nothing' or the'something is something' does not commune with the statutory development and the way to meet the obligations of managing self-government. It is not a problem to be practical or to do rigorous pragmapolitics Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u31	Thank you, señora, president. Good morning, everyone. Today the question of full compliance with the Statute of Gernika is proposed for debate in this House. It will be the sixth time this House has agreed to demand the Statute that was approved in a referendum for Basque citizenship. The first time was in July 1993, an agreement to lay down Parliament's criteria on the scope of the full development of the Statute. Subsequently, in October 95, with the adoption without a vote of the "Report on Priorities and Negotiation of Outstanding Transfers". A third time, in October 2001, it was agreed to demand and demand, out of respect for the will of Basque society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u33	... the full and urgent implementation of the Statute of Gernika, in accordance with the principles that inspired it. A fourth time, in July 2002, an opinion was drawn up by the Special Commission on Self-Government, which made public evidence of non-compliance with the Statute of Self-Government and denounced the responsibility of the central Government for such non-compliance. And a fifth time, in November 2003, this Parliament was ratified in the numerous and repeated past demonstrations. Five times and today we're gonna start with a sixth. Welcome the sixth and welcome the demand for full compliance with the Statute, but let us be sincere and sincere, what will it be worth? What's going to change? If today the 1979 Statute, 38 years after its adoption, remains unfulfilled, it is not out of ignorance of those who do not want it to be complied with, i.e. of successive central governments. It is not because they do not know what an organic law is, it is not because they do not know that it was ratified by the citizenry, nor because they do not know the five previous agreements that this Parliament ratified. On the contrary, they know all this, but they have the will to fail, and these governments have a name and a surname, they are the governments led by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. It is those who have made this Statute a political flag for years, a flag of which they fill their mouths, but not the will to respect it. But it is also questionable whether they are solely responsible. It must be said that no, they are not the only ones responsible for this non-compliance. Today, those who are going to vote in favour of this agreement, the Basque Nationalist Party, are the ones who have devalued the political and social value of the Statute for decades, using it as a currency of change in their slums in Madrid, slums with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, budget slums, investiture, parliamentary pacts and a lot more. Today, who is going to vote in favour of this agreement, the Nationalist Party, far from amending this behaviour, reiterates it. For months now, we have been talking about approving the budgets to Rajoy in exchange for the transfer of new powers. Moreover, in this everything is worth in which the Basque Nationalist Party has been installed for decades, it is possible to agree the transfer of competences with the one who is accused of being the greatest danger to our autonomy. 'Curiously the least.' And of all those dusts, these muds. Today 38 years later, Basque citizenship does not explain why a law that it represents continues to be violated, and I quote literally resolutions of this same Parliament: "The expression of the majority will of the citizens of the Basque Country and, consequently, constitutes the basic institutional norm that it has been endowed with. "A law – I continue to quote literally – that represents a project of internal cohesion as a basic meeting point for the different political projects existing in Basque society, a valid framework for the progressive resolution of their conflicts and a decisive contribution to the strengthening of democratic trust and peaceful coexistence, or that – also added – represents the commitment that must unite us with all those who claim the democratic legitimacy of our institutions." This does not say Elkarrekin Podemos, because we were not yet part of this House – but we are doing so without any problem – as you said, the parties that sit in this House. Explain to us how even though they have alternated in the Basque Government, that there have been various majorities, that there has been even the same party ruling in Ajuria Enea as in Moncloa, explain to us why we still today follow our fundamental non-compliance, better yet, explain it to Basque citizens. But much we do not fear that today this debate is going to be a crossroads of reproach, it is going to be an adjustment of accounts between each other, of cross-accusations, of who is primarily responsible for this non-compliance, but in no case, today we are going to listen here to a real and effective solution to this situation. Today we will reach the sixth parliamentary agreement calling for full compliance with our Statute, but, unfortunately, everything suggests that it will not be worth more than the five times before. And I hope to be wrong, because I wonder what to do about this situation, what to say being a coalition that we have just arrived in this House. At least to offer agreement, to offer the possibility of forming the widest possible majority, with the most sensible approach possible. That is our humble contribution today, having seen more that which unites us than that which separates us, and hence that we have negotiated with EH Bildu an amendment and let us thank the receptivity. We want to highlight this very thing, the possibility of reaching agreements. Do you know what the biggest difference is between the first agreements I have cited and the last ones? The degree of consensus they generated, the type of debate they generated. The former were inspired by Ajuria Enea's pact; the latter were born more conditioned by public statements by lehendakaris and political leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, who repeatedly gave it up as useless or dead. But returning to that covenant of Ajuria Enea – which some of its promoters would probably not sign today – this pact literally said: "We cannot fail to note the concern that has been occurring in sectors of Basque society, which understand that neither the pace nor some of the contents of the statutory development corresponded to what they could expect when the Statute was approved. This concern, which does not invalidate the achievements achieved in these eight years of statutory development, should serve as a stimulus to intensify the readiness for dialogue and agreement as effective channels for the resolution of political conflicts and the maintenance of confidence in the Statute." Frankly, I repeat again, today we would sign this paragraph. We believe that we must return to a sincere readiness for dialogue, not only to ensure the full development of the Statute, but the same readiness for dialogue and agreement must be the guide for us to reach a plural, broad and cross-cutting agreement, to update our self-government. An agreement that is incompatible with the calls to form blocs that have been heard in recent months by some spokesman for this Parliament – such as Mr Egibar – an agreement that is incompatible with the establishment of red lines that Basque society does not share – as other parties do, such as the Socialist Party or the People's Party. Let none of them have Elkarrekin We can in these strategies that do not bring anything positive to Basque citizenship. It is not a question of being naive; calling for dialogue and agreement 38 years after non-compliance is not a toast to the sun, it is to see the only possible way forward, an advance that cannot be a song to goodism and that must have a basis of real demand, of demand to whom right now is encased in the "no", of demand to the Government of the People's Party. In the previous point Mrs Gorospe said and appealed that the voters have elected us to the different parties to dialogue. In the same line we meet. But we also have to understand that the negotiation of these pending transfers cannot be a political scumbag like that which still surrounds the Basque Nationalist Party today, cannot be a request for more competence for having more competence as the PNV does. Today, it is imperative to regain the social and political value of the Gernika Statute, in addition to our self-government, to regain its value among Basque citizens, and to do so, I would rather say that almost the only way would be to explain that this self-government must necessarily be the basis for improving the living conditions of citizens, to shield their rights, not the attempt to seize the power of some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u35	Good morning. Well, as the representative of Podemos said, it is true that the sixth time we talk about these issues, with a novelty, on this occasion the proposal is brought by Euskal Herria Bildu. And he has proposed this debate to us with the explicit intention of defending law enforcement; something else is his implicit intentions, which I believe Mrs Ugarte has made meridianly clear. Those specified in the operative part that leads to debate are literally: "Denouncing non-compliance with the Statute, demanding compliance through the envisaged bilateral negotiation process and that such compliance is not a condition for the open debate in the Self-Government Paper". Perfect, nothing to object to. To this we add, by pure logic, "that according to the legal procedures in force", something that, by the way, is reflected in the parliamentary agreement that gave rise to the birth of the Ponencia de Autogoverno, "respect to the legal system in force". That, of course, you have been forgotten. It seems to us that the laws are not immutable. True, they can be changed, but they can be changed according to their own laws. There is no other, unless you want to play conflict and frustration, and it is not our case. The first thing to say is that the Socialist Group is not going to put but those who ask for the law, come from where that request comes from, even from you, even when it comes from the political current that for decades has refused to accept that law, from whom it appeals in this debate to the finding that we now do, all those who sit in this House we appeal to the statutory spirit, to what it meant and is a political pact to build a country among all, to the law that has made it possible for us to count on the Concert, with Osakidetza, with Lanbide, with the RGI, with the public school and with the right to housing – and that is not from now, Mrs Ugarte, it was from before, when you did not want to accept the Statute as a valid instrument. It is true that it is unfulfilled, a serious deficit that we have been dragging in and in which we will all have something to denounce and we all have responsibility. And I say "all", without exception, the ones there and here. The Socialists are not going to hold back criticism of the current Government of Spain, of its lack of political vision, of its scarred attitude, of its recourse to the judicialization of what must be resolved at a negotiating table. And I do not think that the People's Party, when it comes to the rostrum, will be lacking in criticism of the socialist governments in Spain, which also have our share of responsibility. But also here the nationalists have their share of responsibility. The declared nationalists will direct their darts to any Government of Spain in general, trying to obviate their share of responsibility for certain past attitudes on this issue or obviating their most serious responsibility, for the attempt to harass and overthrow this framework of coexistence for decades in this country. Elkarrekin Podemos, which is presented to us as if this were not with them, but integrates forces that have also had responsibility in this matter, because its coalition also includes some force that has participated in the Basque Government. But we're going to go and analyze what's left and what's left, to find out what we're talking about. I will take as a reference the report drawn up by the present Government, because this is what the Socialists agreed with the PNV, which updates those that were made in 93 and 95 also by governments in which, it is no coincidence, we were the same parties that we are now. The report begins by reviewing what has happened since the Zubia report until today. –reports that we share a large part, but not in everything, I say the Zubia Report – and notes more than twenty transfers from that which until today of full competences and certain services. That is a first reflection that we passed on to those who two decades ago proclaimed that the Statute had died or that it was a letter granted. Despite those declarations and despite the fact that during the first decade of this century there had been an absolute break from the government of Ibarretxe, the Statute remained and remains very alive, so much so that, despite all that, without the need for a single transfer, in 2008 we managed to make income security income a subjective right or, in 2015, without the need for any transfer, we agreed that housing was guaranteed to those who did not have sufficient resources. That is to say, despite the clumsiness, from the outside or from within, we introduced these rights, we took over the research policies, the Labour Inspectorate, for example, and from there, 37 files (not 37 pending transfers) are provided in the last report. There are some that refer to Euskadi's recognized real net powers, such as those related to prisons – not prison policy, prisons – and the economic management of Social Security and its derivatives. And the bulk of the work is subject matter and services that can be transferred, such as railways or airports, not because they are competition titles established as such in the Statute, but can be achieved through agreements and agreements and can be done, if agreed, because this is permitted by the Statute, the Constitution and the interpretation that the Constitutional Court itself makes in various judgments, and the European directives that correct competences. We argue that these subjects and services can be delivered more effectively from here, from Euskadi, because when we speak of self-government, in addition to respect for the Statute, the socialists prefer the discourse of effectiveness to that of aggravation; to speak of utility to improve the services of the people. And this is how we interpret the report: adapting to the reality and rulings of the Constitution, adapting to European legislation, implementing powers defined in the Statute and dialogue with the Government of Spain to make this possible. A dialogue that the current Government of Spain, having lived in the placidity of the absolute majority for four years, has ignored in Euskadi and in other territories, and that has served as a better food for independence, to be placed in an incoherence that seems tremendous to us, doesn't it? Constant appeal to the law and non-compliance with the law. We have said this on some occasion and we repeat it: the PP should not put the Statute in a pin, which is very good, it has to really believe it. It is not good to ask for compliance with the law in Catalonia and not to comply with it in Euskadi; it is not good to torpedo the self-government or to parapet permanently behind the robes to avoid their political responsibility. And to the left abertzale is also not worth avoiding his responsibility. The minimum, which is the voluntary absence of their seats for a very long time in this country, and the maximum, is to consider that the political vanguard of an independentist option was in the annihilation of those who were building a country with the skills in their hand. I am very happy with your rectification and I recognize it, and I extend my hand to you to work together on this new path. So far, the cohabitation project of the Statute has been the best we have been able to do, a framework law that we defend at its origin three of the political currents that are represented today in this House: the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Communist Party. Others were not, did not want to be, or even fiercely opposed. And that spirit, and that pact of coexistence, is to which we appeal today when we denounce the scarring of self-government by the Government of Spain. It's true, we don't have any pain in clothing. We cannot accept that this has been unilaterally, as you say in your first point, which has been, "the blockade has been unilaterally by the governments of Spain". No, no, stones have also been put on the road here at certain times by the nationalist leaders. Nor can we accept its fourth point, where reference is made to a respect for the majority will of the Basque people without any limitation and without making reference, as I said before, to what the constitution of the self-government paper itself says, "with respect for the existing legal framework". That has been forgotten to you in the transaction. In any case, we continue to appeal to the dialogue between the two administrations to complete the circle that was opened 40 years ago and we also invite all forces to update our tools to advance in the social Euskadi, and with the final assertion of law enforcement even to change the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing round the teams that are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, President señor, Senor Conejero. I will try to be very brief for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, because it is true that this has been debated to the point of satiety and there does not seem to be great news that we can bring together; secondly, because by extending the debate we will probably learn about that sort of reproach that Mr Pastor had hoped for, and I can assure you that this is not going to be the tone of our intervention, and thirdly, because what I have to say to you I can probably say in a very short time. As a previous question, Mrs Ugarte, and it is a question that may seem minor, but it seems to me to be very relevant also to situate the debate and also to justify why we are not going to support this non-legislative proposal, neither that of origin nor that which you have agreed through a transaction with Elkarrekin Podemos. Allow me to share with you, although you do not mind, a particular surprise and it is remarkable, especially seeing you next to Mr Urruzuno and Mr Arzuaga, that this lit defense that Bildu does at this time of the fulfillment of the Statute of Autonomy, especially when accompanied by expressions that seem to me, I insist, especially relevant, when you say "we were skeptical". It says "they were skeptical." You literally said, "We were skeptical from the beginning." Man, calling "scepticism" to the political position maintained for decades by the left abertzale around the Statute of Autonomy sounds the less curious! It seems good to me that you are amending yourselves in all respects, also in this one. It seems reasonable to me that the one who spends his whole life thinking the same way, because, probably, he can boast very little of that attitude, but neither are we going to clap with the ears when you say they were skeptical. There was more than scepticism on the part of the left abertzale about the Statute of Autonomy. And he says this is "better than having nothing." Well, welcome to be decades later. –after much damage also caused – to the defense of the Statute of Autonomy and, therefore, to the constitutional bloc! It is good that Euskal Herria Bildu joins the majority of this House and the social majority, as you have also recognized in the proposal not of law of origin, because in the proposal not of law of origin Euskal Herria Bildu also literally recognizes something that is obvious, right?, but that it has been difficult for them to recognize it decades: "The Statute of Autonomy was ratified by Basque citizens in their day". "...of Alava..." Well, citizen positioning that you have turned your back on also over the past few decades, endorsing a strategy that sought, not only through violence to overthrow the constitutional order, but also the Statute of Autonomy itself. I insist, indeed, Mrs Ugarte, that your manifestations here today and the radical 180-degree change of the abertzale left that you represent in this matter seem very relevant to me. It is something that, I insist, I am sure that everyone, to a greater or lesser extent, welcomes us. That is one of the reasons, the lack of credibility of your speech, for which we will not support this initiative. Secondly, it is because some of the issues that are affirmed in the body are also not true. When it is literally said, and Mr Pastor has also pointed out to some extent, that "different governments in Spain have systematically blocked the execution or implementation of certain transfers...", so that is also not true. And I agree with what Mr Pastor has said: here there are probably shared responsibilities, and it is true that everyone is going to hold the shady to his sardine in this debate, but it is no less true that there are certain transfers that have never been demanded by the Basque Government itself, because they were not interested for political reasons, for social reasons, for whatever reason, each... For example, the transfer of prisons has never been of interest to the successive governments of Euskadi: while ETA was murdering it was not of interest to become legal jailers. Therefore, the Basque Nationalist Party, when it has occupied the responsibilities of government in Basquedi, has never claimed the transfer of prisons as one of the axes of Basque self-government, at least I, who have been in politics for some year, have never heard the Basque Nationalist Party say that the self-government of Basquedi and the future of our entity depended to a large extent on having the transfer of prisons or not. It is something that politically was more or less a hot potato, and has never interested. Nor has it been interested in the transfer of social security. He has certainly never been interested in the terms used by the Constitutional Court either. In fact, a few months ago, in this House too, you voted against an amendment tabled by the People's Party calling for the negotiation of this transfer, I insist, of social security, in terms limited by the laws and also by the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, because the will is not credible – I do not believe it, however much you express it here – and also because it is not true what they say, we will not support this initiative. What is true is that here there is a legitimate political will, I believe it is a political will, and also a majority in this House, that what is intended is to carry the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. In fact, there is a presentation in this House that seeks to illuminate a new legal-political status. And in order to defend that position, in order to defend that position that is concrete in charging the Statute of Autonomy and lighting a new thing, it is interesting to expand the idea, it is interesting to continue insisting that, of course, as the Statute is not fulfilled we charge it. But let's go into detail. I also want to take advantage of this intervention – I am already failing to fulfil my first commitment, which was to be brief: it is that I come up when I come to the rostrum, Mrs Ugarte – and I want to take advantage of this intervention to ask you for real peace of mind and serenity. We are convinced – I know That some member of the government is probably also – that there is scope for the agreement to continue to advance in the development of the Statute of Autonomy, that there is scope, and that in fact that is on the agenda, so that within the Joint Commission on Transfers (which is where these things are talked about, because not only are we talking about slogans, – Mr Erkoreka knows it well – is a conscientious work that takes place in that committee and, to a large extent, also about technical analysis, on what it means to transfer competition or not in fundamentally economic terms), that Joint Commission is also going to light up agreements in the coming months. And we are absolutely convinced that dialogue and agreement are what will not be lacking in the coming times. Dialogue and agreement framed, as it cannot be otherwise, in the Constitution itself and in the Statute of Autonomy itself, and also in the frameworks established by different rulings of the Constitutional Court. That is why I also strongly encourage you to reduce the dramatism, dramatism that I have had the opportunity to detect in some interventions. Of what remains to be transferred, if we are honest, 80%, being generous, does not affect our identity or self-government, and, more importantly, does not affect the service provided to the citizen. It does not affect the service provided to the citizen. In addition, for months, we have had a track record of success in agreements, and this is because it seems to some to be wrong to arm this speech, but it is an objective reality. We have long agreed on various issues between the two governments, between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. Agreements and understanding which, I also insist, will continue to take place in the coming months. In addition, there are no 37 outstanding transfers. The report of the Basque Government is a partial report. That is very good, but the report itself recognizes that there are no 37 outstanding transfers, because it is the report itself that is being amended and that when it calls for certain transfers and contemplates certain transfers, such as ports and airports, it recognizes that they are not ownership, they are not transferable. This is acknowledged by the Basque Government's own report. But it's just that among those 37 transfers is the national hangout in Hondarribia. Man, all right, it's a wonderful and magnificent building, in an excellent location, and also a tourist destination..., but it doesn't seem that our identity and self-government largely depend on the ownership of the Hondarribia settlement. And so we could continue to degrade many supposedly outstanding competencies that appear in that report. And besides, if there are differences, they are resolved. Look, recently the Constitutional Court – which for some things is good and for others is not so good – has ruled in favour of the Basque Government in executing the transfer of two railway lines that were envisaged as a general interest, and the Constitutional Court has said that they are not of general interest and that they must be transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as will happen. That Constitutional Court which is "bought", Mrs. Ugarte, is sometimes less bought or sometimes not bought. Sometimes it's bought by another government, I understand. Of course, because here you can go down to the rostrum and accuse a court (in this case the Constitutional Court) of a crime (in this case of prevarication, of which they are bought) – this is what allows you our rule of law – which does not mean that everything that is said in this rostrum, not even what I say, is true – in my case it will not be because of lying, but because I am wrong. That is why the differences in a rule of law such as ours, when there are discrepancies in making an assessment – in this case of a transfer – are addressed by the body that has to do so, which in this case is the Constitutional Court, which sometimes gives reason and others do not. And not when you give me the correct reason and when you take it away from me "it's bought," Mrs Ugarte, because I just reminded you that there has been one last ruling from the Constitutional Court that gives the Basque Government the reason. Albricias! I'm done. The Statute of Autonomy enjoys magnificent health. The Statute of Autonomy is not only a success story for the Basques, it is not only a success story for the Basques in political terms, which also – we are sitting here and we have the responsibility to legislate on aspects that directly affect the life and quality of life of the Basques, and in their vast majority of what matters to the Basques we decided here, in the vast majority we decided here – but it is also a story of present success and, we have no doubt, of future success. What we have to do among all – and this is something for which the People's Party offers, has offered and will offer its cooperation – is to continue to comply with the Statute, to continue to develop in the terms established by law and by the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much and I'm sorry that I missed my first short-term commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u39	Thank you. Without a historical exercise, but now looking at the file, it is clear that this proposition is at least a great deal alike in its time, July 2002, with the debate we had in this Chamber. I'd say, literally, some things are copied. But without making any guess, let's play at that time and take a picture. We voted for the same proposal, PNV, the Basque Alcharities and the United States, and the Social Party and Populars voted against it, and the Basque People gathered together the Basque Country in Williams, and then the Basque People Abstained. And this had an extension, a development. And I would like to tell Mrs. García, as the United States voted for it here, when we went to Madrid, he voted no, he didn't even accept the reform of the State. There's a kind of mutation going on here, but then things get transformed. And when we proceed to the point, we see that the accusation is in the proposition, and the demand also. At first it was two months and now it was past six. And then the statement, right? Of course we agree with the indictment. And what's going to be filled up with the Spanish Government in six months' time is to get this congressman and the whole plan and the calendar together. And with the statement, too. I mean: That the maintenance of the state of Guernica, will not condition the proposals which may be made to change the state itself, or the political frame itself. And always, strictly speaking, in the power of the majority. And there's a fourth point involved at the moment, and it's what political behaviors have been made in the development of the state. And to this at least I would like to offer a chapter. However, I think, in the text, in the points proposed to him, and in the points that are proposed afterwards, if there is a contradiction to me, or I do not understand it properly, but at a time you say it would be good to make a common declaration, but because the observance of all the engagements which the Spanish State had received in 1979 must be the first condition and foundation for the execution of the new political frame to be built with the least guarantees. That's what you say, text. In other words, "the fulfilment of all the commitments made by the Spanish State in 1979 must be the first condition and basis in order to be able to build with minimal guarantees the new political legal framework". I can agree purely, but we have no extraordinary hope, we have no hope that will happen. Therefore, in the proposition which we have proposed to the Council of Autogobernus, we confirm and proclaim in the State what is reserved and acknowledged, and which has not been transferred. The first state is satisfied, the second is transferred, but the rights which have been abolished or diminished must be renewed, and they must be restored to their own senses. And the third section, we say, in this block of growth, of the eupscal society, of all the public policies which relate to the popular euccals, is necessary in this part of the legislature. If at last we are to build the future among all of us, we must have rights present to the social rights of rights, even economics and politicals, how nonchant. People's rights too. That's why with these three sections we were supposed to do at the Autogoberon Board, and in that holiday unit we've all had the opportunity to make, we've made our proposal. Hau da: reaffirm, on the one hand, the space of recognized power but not transferred – which is a lot. Only the economic system of social security, only the management of the economic system of social security, implies as much as the budget of the Basque Government, the current one. Then we're talking about capital figures – apart from other untransferable, remaining skills. Secondly, to regain the recognized and transferred public power, but which has been severely weakened and conditioned. And the third point would be to extend the quantum Obviously to articulate a new political relationship with the Spanish State, and we are talking about the two supports of historical rights to which it has referred before and also the democratic principle: the addition of the Constitution and the democratic principle. A new political relationship, the recognition of a wide range of competences, apart from rescuing those recognized but not transferred, and, of course, beyond what may be the scope of the eighth title of the Constitution. That is the approach that the Basque Nationalist Party has taken and has placed on the table of the Self-Government Ponence. There is a question that has been common in the reference that both García anderek, eta baita ere Ugarte anderek have made: PNV eta Statutuaren garapena. In the compromise amendment, which, by the way, we are going to vote on, you can already say whatever you want, but obviously in the defence of the Statute of Autonomy someone will be able to catch up, but ahead of the Basque Nationalist Party, difficult. It is very difficult to prove in the last 38 years that someone has been ahead of the Basque Nationalist Party in defending the Statute. But as they say, "the fulfilment of the Statute should not be subject to other agreements and variables of any kind", for I will tell you about some variables, because over the course of the 39 years there have been variables. The Statute of Autonomy was adopted by referendum on 25 October 79. Good. The first elections were held in April, a Basque Government, presided over by Carlos Garaikoetxea, constituted the Government and at 10 months there was a coup d'état, which had to do with the configuration of the State of Autonomies, as was later verified with the authentic accounts of the intentions of that coup d'état, both referring to Euskadi and Catalonia or to other nationalities. It's a variable. Then came the LOAPA, signed by the two parties that have succeeded in the responsibility of the government of the State, and that here they have had a parliamentary capacity to also condition the configuration of majorities and government programs, as Mr Pastor has been instructed to reflect. Because the Basque Nationalist Party, together with Eusko Alkartasuna and Ezker Batua, we set up the majority that we set up and had an abertzale left then in other strategies, but among those strategies politically was that of fighting the Statute. And today we have a metamorphosis, we will have to see the authenticity of the decisions, because today we are talking about EH Bildu, we are not talking about who being able to vote a number of options did not do so at the time or when they understood that the Basque Government was in a minority and they had to attend to another strategy, they are leaving this House. Then, the Basque Nationalist Party directly has never negotiated the Statute. Last year, all those agreements to which they relate have been the institutions. The Basque Nationalist Party, it is true, because the state had defined and decided not to comply with the Statute, today has exhausted the discourse, until the speech of compliance with the Statute. I wish we could have a chance, not only to fill the Statute, but it was what I originally envisaged, as laying the foundations for a future status! I wish we could have the chance! But the Basque Nationalist Party is not an approval So, when you go to Madrid and take the opportunity, obviously, you're not fighting for the PNV. You're putting on the table a specific matter to transfer. Either you do it or there's no votes. And they do, sometimes. But it negotiates with the Basque Government, the Basque institutions, not the PNV. The PNV takes the opportunity for us to continue to complete the Statute in a state of necessity to which the Spanish Government is responsible, because the consequences of non-compliance are serious. If the strategy of failing to comply with the Statute is systematized, there is not only a material weakness; there is a mistrust of the instrument of the Statute – nor do I tell you if it is fought – but it affects citizens directly and negatively. And that's the conclusion. I'm sorry, it's been a while. Rebellion...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u40	Go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u41	Yes, yes. I said I'd tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u42	Thank you. On the answer shift, Chief EH Group. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u43	When the state voted, I was three years old, but if I voted, I would have voted no. It's true that I'm sitting next to ruzuno and Arzuaga. It's not a surprise, maybe it's for you, not for me. Besides, I must say that there are others who voted for it at that moment, and one of them was Charles the Time Hospital, and now we're bankrupt. Behin hori esanda, esan nahiko nuke esaten duzuenean "who enjoys good health" – it's hard for me to get mad at you, because you're funny. That is, to say that the Statute enjoys good health, after all Basque citizenship is saying that it is dead, either because it has not just been given birth or because it has not been fulfilled, seems to me to be quite frivolating. Frivoli Baiston, because I think this town needs more mechanism than it has today. And that's why we've said so, and that's why we've been in scepticism with Autonomy State. Did we fight? For a few moments, yes. We thought it was the most effective mechanism. Eta berriro diot: I refer to the results account. The result account is... Esaten duzue egin duzuela "the defense of the Statute". But to make that defense, many goals have put you: through the squad, from above, from below, from the left corner, from the right side... I mean, a defense with a lot of holes, you dut egg her. Again, metamorphosis or change. I do not always find in the same point of firmness any virtuality or political. Today, what EH Collect proposes is not a firm defense of the state. It's not unknown to the political position of the US of EH Collect. He says that this state has not been developed, that it is not well, that we are living in a revolution, and that we are living in a state of aversion. That is to say, that in so many of the elements we have acquired, some do not end in developing, and that the wants of the Basque Country are very different, and not enough, even if the amount of auto-grongernus we have had were so full of, even if the State were full of it, it would not be enough for us to resist the roots which we have to-day: that it's pensions, that it's the welfare of the community, that it's a strong industrial policy, that it's a strong political development, a prison system, a punishment code... So we have to. We need state structures, and if this country is going on, we need state structures. And that's how it is. And the state we've got today's amazing maravilla... maravilla So, I think, history is history, there have been different positions, what EH Collector planned is that we have to prove and explain to the people that Madrid has no will at all, that he has no will at all, and we shall see in six months that he develops that self-organization. For what we're saying now is that by individuality we're going to get through meeting and bargaining, I don't know what kind of development we're going to get. But what guarantees a self-generonity, what are we doing here, if an organic law of 39 years ago cannot be fulfilled? What are we doing? What are we doing? What we are saying is, that to fulfil that law of 39 should be a guarantee, it may not be plain in the text; but that is what it means. That's what it's all What guarantees we are giving birth to a new state in this country, even the former, which is an organic law, if it is not fulfilled. And that's what we're trying to figure out. And we want to make it clear to the people that it's not one of the same things as the Basque People, or one of the different sectors of this country. The Spanish Government must be retracted, and it will be necessary to explain that the people have no programmes or structures, so that political will is to develop that pact which was made thirty-three years ago. And once that's done, we'll have to decide what steps we take with our people. What's the buzz Tell me if Madrid doesn't answer in six months' time if he doesn't call a mixed committee unless he puts a plan on the table. We'll have to think about something. Or what do we have to go on doing that self-defense other 39 years, pick up the goals and pick up the goals? Is that what we're going to offer this town? Well, I think we must be much more ambitious, because there's a great deal of delicacy in this country about jumping to another state. I believe that neither the Socialist Party nor the Popular Party have had any will at all, but that it is a question of State that EAE no longer lays hands on the auto-engine, and that it is empty too. And I believe that the forces which we are here present, which we believe in democracy, and which we believe in the future and progress, must be concluded between them, we must make the agreements, how we shall develop the state of 79 in its entirety, and how we shall make another new states, fitted to these times, more modern, and truly resourceful. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u45	Thank you, señora, president. I am convinced and I reaffirm that today some parties in this House would be unable to sign the Ajuria Enea pact, and that has been exactly 30 years since it was signed in January 1988. In one of its points, in 2.b it is said: "... all the signatories of this Agreement undertake to develop it in its entirety, in accordance with the principles that inspired it and respecting its uniqueness. To this end, through an institutional committee of the Basque Parliament, the criteria of Parliament on the scope of the full development of the Statute will be laid down, in a basic atmosphere of understanding, with the greatest possible consensus." And in the next point, in 2.c it says: "It is the majority will of the people, through their legitimate representatives, (...) who must judge at every moment the validity or invalidity of the Statute as an instrument of self-government and decide, where appropriate, its reform and development through the procedures provided for in the Statute itself and in the Constitution, while the same people are always entitled to claim any right which, in accordance with the first and only additional provisions of the Constitution, could have corresponded to it". Mr Pastor, you have spoken here that thanks to the Statute of Gernika we have the greatest autonomy in our history, the greatest decentralization of the OECD, that there is some percent of the total euro that is being collected that is being managed from Euskadi, that there is some percent that is being fulfilled. And yes, and it's true that most of those issues, and far from underestimating them, from Elkarrekin We can put them in value. There are a number of things to remember, though. First, that Felipe González, president of terrible memory in Euskadi, promised that the Statute would be fully developed in 1997. Curious. And on the other hand, we believe that the keys to ensuring the well-being of Basque citizens, without a doubt, are also other issues that we are now going to sign. The first, that a law does not allow compliance with measures or allows compliance in so many percent; that the development of the Statute, the negotiation that is needed, does not belong to either of them, belongs to us all and to each of the Basque citizens without exception, and the key to the future is that this Statute, or another future, is not meant as a part, something that belongs more to one than to another, that this Statute, or another future, as we aspire to in Elkarrekin Podemos, be that of all the Basques without exception. The second, that the will of Basque citizens is the only one that removes and gives reasons, is the only one that legitimises the agreements, that it is the beginning and the end of the agreements that we political parties take in updating and renewing our self-government. This Parliament is working on a new agreement to this end, and we must strive to regain the broad, plural and cross-cutting meaning that makes this possible. And Mr. Egibar, I'm sure you know that phrase of "fucking hemerotheque." I will literally quote the words of the lehendakari Ibarretxe in this House, I am sure that being the words of Ibarretxe, the soul mate of his party's sovereignism, will prove a valid reference to him. Do you know what he said on 17 October 2000 in an appearance at his own request in this very Parliament? I'm going to tell you, I'm literally reading to you: "The process of transfers still unfulfilled has been permanently conditioned on obtaining political counterparts that have nothing to do with the enforcement of an organic law, simply, no more or less, it has been a vote in some budgets, a vote in a law, not the submission of an amendment of the whole, which has constituted the backbone of intellectual tension that has allowed specific developments in the Statute at certain times." This is what you have not only accepted –I'd like to finish my speech. Thank you– but they have legitimized as a usual way of treating our Statute, our self-government. That is what you continue to do today, that is what you have defended and continue to defend for the approval of the general budgets of the State. That is what has caused our Statute and our self-government to have lost social and political legitimacy, is what must not continue to happen and is what must be eradicated from Basque politics. If you are not worth the words of Mr Ibarretxe, I remind you of these others of Mr Arzalluz: "It has been a scandal that to get some transfers we have had to walk etenbeko kanbalatxe politicikoetan And if it is not enough for you, you yourself have mentioned and affirmed on some occasion that the Statute was a letter granted. I'd like you to clarify yourself. Is it the result of the free and democratic will of Basque citizens or is it a letter granted? Because you were talking yourself before you went ahead of the Statute... I don't know if they go ahead, from behind, to the left, up, down or to the right. What I am very clear is that you are competing against yourselves and that we will always be next to the citizenry. And Mr. Semper, you announced positive news about transfers, you do it also coincide with the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State, what a coincidence! We have already said this these days, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party have already made an agreement, no matter how much the Nationalist Party denies it over and over again. Tomorrow, if the president is finally invited to Catalonia, you will have the way open to make public what you have already arranged in secret. Today we need another way of doing radically different, we need self-government to be synonymous with social welfare, social rights, equality between women and men, a new social pact that generates opportunity and prosperity on our land. We need it to be the agreement of all, to stop being a place that is not celebrated, that passes from dots, that is quoted with a small mouth, a text that is not complied with or that generates bouts. We need self-government to be a new statute, we join all Basques, we need a turning point, we need an inclusive agreement and it has to be in a new statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u47	Well, I really promise you that I'm going to be really brief, because today you've given yourselves a species of measles, to go to the red side of the marker that I don't think is reasonable. I think this is the day of the ongi etorri And to Mrs Garcia, at last, I believe that the problem of bringing the written replicas from home has these problems. You have come here not to answer, but to distribute to everyone, but, finally, when the criterion is to put a little blame on everyone, that distracts a lot, but does not help anything. It doesn't work. I am the first to criticise the efforts of the Socialist Government, too, when there have been, in the management of the Statute. But, finally, I understand that when you get to a place for the first time because you're a little out of place and there are things you don't know, but you'll learn, don't worry. And if they want, we'll even help them. And in any case, I would like to announce that we are going to support the proposal, but not in its entirety, as they have proposed. Firstly, because at the first point, we cannot accept that the blockade is exclusively due to unilateral action by the Government. That's not true. There have also often been obstacles in the Basque side to the management of certain transfers. For example, the Zubia report that was being discussed gave an idea of what was to be transferred from Social Security which had nothing to do with what was now reflected in the report of the Basque Government. And that clearly made it impossible for that transfer to be made. Therefore, we cannot accept this item and we will ask for the vote on points. Since we cannot accept that the right of the Basque people to decide their future is without limits. No right ceases to have limits, and neither does this one. Moreover, on the basis of the fact that the position of self-government was formed on the basis of a parliamentary agreement which expressly states that it will be done in accordance with and in accordance with the existing legal order, because we cannot support either point one or point four, and we will ask for abstention. And on the other hand, you, Mrs García, referred to some things that Mr Ibarretxe said, that I have just heard Mr Egibar in this rostrum in his previous speech, I think even literals, word for word, right? But anyway... Just a little something from the love, Mr. Egibar. You said, "The PNV has never negotiated." No, no. You will remember perfectly that when Patxi López was lehendakari of this government and there was a Socialist government in Spain, the PNV negotiated with the Spanish government, apart from the Basque government, active employment policies – by the way, in a negotiation that we all now regret, you too, now that it is up to you to negotiate. I'm saying it for putting things in their place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Representative of the population. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u49	No, no sere breve. Not only that, Mr Pastor, but also in connection with the transfers of active employment policies. In this case I believe that we did advance you, Mr Egibar, although you said before that no one had advanced you. We agree with you, to make lehendakari to Patxi López, to demand the transfer of active employment policies. That appeared in the investiture pact that made lehendakari to Patxi López and that obtained the agreement of the People's Party, because we believed that active employment policies, within the framework also established by our norm, could be implemented without any problem. By the way, 10 years after it was transferred to other autonomous communities. Here we are also late for a lack of political will over 10 years, probably for a discrepancy in how to execute the transfer, but not for a dramatic issue of harassment and overthrow of Basque autonomy, but because there were political discrepancies or little will. And it was executed, indeed. There was a strange game there, things happened between ugly and uneducating too and, well, look, I'm also going to tell you that the execution of that transfer does not guarantee good management either. In fact, Lanbide has been news for years, unfortunately, for bad news. The execution of the transfer does not guarantee that it is executed properly. It can probably harm even the interests of the citizens, who is the mother of the lamb! Transfers, the execution of a particular subject, are not carried out to satisfy the political anxiety of any formation, not even the political will of a government, but it is because it is understood – the legislator so understood at a certain time – that this competence resides in an autonomous community, that is, the result of a decentralization as it is that which exists in our State, was to provoke and offer a better service to the citizen, and there are times when it has not happened. And this Lanbide thing, we hope we'll be among all –but with particular interest the Government – able to correct it. Mrs Ugarte, when I say that the Statute of Autonomy does enjoy good health, and you regret saying that you do not enjoy good health, abounding in your defense of the Statute of Autonomy – I insist, it seems reasonable to us – and I mentioned Mr Urruzuno and Mr Arzuaga, with all the affection and respect, as independent warriors who sit next to you have to see how EH Bildu becomes a defender in excess of the Statute of Autonomy, therefore of our constitutional order... I insist, I think, that's good news. He said he does enjoy good health, because what is left to be transferred – beyond two or three powers, which are unique in terms of their political and economic dimension, as can be, for example, the political dimension of the transfer of prisons, although it is true that there is little left, because the security, both external, of the transfer of prisoners, education, health, is already transferred and, in fact, exercised by the Basque Government. It remains to be transferred – forgive me the expression, which is untechnical, but I think it is very graphic – bars and walls, but well, it has an undeniable political dimension, especially beyond our borders, this can be one of the transfers relevant from a political point of view. That of Social Security, which must also be limited to the conditions and technical characteristics and agree in the Joint Committee on Transfers, if any, on the conditions under which it would be transferred, if any... The rest of the powers are of a minor nature. What I was saying to you is that it does not affect our singularity, it does not affect our self-government and therefore it does not affect the service provided to the citizen, unless it is meant to say that the fact that Aemet also provides a service in Euskadi is a violation of the Statute of Autonomy and attacks our self-government. Or not to have agricultural insurance or fishing inspection in territorial waters, or to have Hondarribia, as I said before... Not having these transfers executed... And then we could also assess whether transferring the state's assets, in this case Hondarribia's whereabouts, could also be transferred... But, well, what's left is smaller. What remains does not support that aggravation on which you rely to say that the Statute of Autonomy is dead and that you want a new political legal status, which is what we are finally talking about. To endorse and defend the independenceist thesis, to endorse the independenceist thesis of Mr Egibar or at least a new political legal status in the image and likeness of what was attempted at the time of the exlehendakari Ibarretxe, it is not worth claiming a violation of the Statute. For what I have just told you and, secondly, because it will continue to move forward. Trust me, Mr. Egibar, have hope, for real. Look at the horizon with a little optimism. But not as an act of faith, but because – and I am sure that at the bottom of your heart you too are happy – this agreement and that understanding that exists, and that I hope that it will continue to be produced for the benefit of all and uniquely of the citizens, between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, and between the two formations, which you represent and which I represent. Because Elkarrekin's spokesperson We can tell him that as a futurologist I wish him little success. I hope you have much more as a Member of Parliament. But this which you say is on the negotiating table between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, between the two governments, is not so. This thing about tomorrow or the past being president of the Generalitat... Look, I wouldn't bet on my estate, even if it's small! In any case, what is at stake is that we can all calm politics, talk about things as they are, and that when we talk about pending transfers and about the health of the Statute we are, at least, sincere. And this will not prevent you from being independent or Mr Egibar from wanting to carry the Statute of Autonomy and to illuminate a new political legal status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u51	I can see that in the conversations of Mrs. García and Mrs. Ugarte, you have reflected that if we had just been born in politics or were you. Finally, you said yourself: "When Autnos voted for the State, I was three years old, and if I had a chance to vote today, I'd vote "no." But in between, it's been 35 years. 35 years. And I confess that EH Collect has now started a reflection, and some very clear conclusions may be detected around the previous strategy, regarding the future... but this trueness of all these decisions is also to be shown, it must be seen. Why do you always do the drill, "how they're defending the state in their own time" Other Charles the High School is the president and a lot of EA members of the world, you're doing it, you're like, "Get in front of the place and you're gonna go on." "Don't use the trophy house as a shield! Make a statement, "Why haven't we been for the state?" "Because he did not keep all his rights? Well, that seems a questionable, because we also know stateo Nacinal de Autonomy. Then, if we wish to develop a new political state, we have each set down how we see it, and how we see it. Then we'll have to see if a largely-sized crop is given in this legislature. What we've said before is that in the defense of the state we've often been playing the great game. Not alone, alone! To know why he has been alone, one must look into society, and society seeks to strengthen the columns of auto-generacy, and want to advance. There is no doubt but we must proceed, but, confessing all that there is, all this is recovered, and strengthened, and quantum. But we, Popular Party and Social Party... The popular party has never ruled with us here; the Social Party has. But the Socialist Party and Popular Party were invented, and we know what critical mass we have here, and the only ones in defence of this people and in defence of their rights have ever used an extra place in the long decades. And you don't have to test that on the state examination? Aren't you going to study that? Why did you say you're not going into history? But that's political history. It's a political strategy. And this must be considered in order to see, measure, and estimate the extent of the development of the state. Mrs García, some other spokesman has told you, but of course I agree with what Ibarretxe said, with what Arzalluz said and, for the moment, with what I said too. I agree. That is, when we are talking about promoting a new status, of course we value the self-government achieved, even though we clearly highlight the gaps and deficits, and the restrictive interpretations that have been practiced, and the repeated rulings of the Constitution, and the involutionist movement that is also beginning to light up in certain political forums in the Spanish State. That's right. But we've decided to move forward. I've said before, we've often been alone, but not alone. And when I say alone, we have also had accompaniment from Ezker Batua, who after that I don't know what happens when they arrive in Madrid that everything changes. Let us hope that that does not happen with Podemos and that we can also shed light on an agreement among all, with a series of bases, which everyone has set out freely and democratically. We haven't had a sieve, we haven't had a limit. We have had enough time to write, to put black on white what each political formation thinks in view of the future of this country. We are clear that from the perspective of not only sustaining, but increasing, consolidating self-government, we must enjoy, as a people, instruments that help to ensure that this political personality as a people can also be assured in future times since that recognition and, of course, taking into account the society to which we serve, men and women, young and old, who have civil, political, economic and social rights. And we have to secure from the whole of this House, with each one's positions, trying to make the greatest synthesis that we are able to achieve, with the greatest possible consensus, but without veto, and see how far that consensus reaches. And that's what we're going to have proof of. I don't know if this 18, if we work properly, or the quarter of next year. That will depend more on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. All right, we're done talking, we're going to vote. One point, four... Is there a problem? You don't agree, we vote as a whole. We'll vote for EH Collect and the entire half-correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 56; the contrary, 9; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u53	So it's accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, in defending a permanent imprisonment. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Sémper, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u54	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Very good, again, everyone. Under this rostrum with the determined will to address this debate trying to provide data and, therefore, also from the serenity to share reflections and try to make the discrepancy because it does not make us emulate other debates that have occurred elsewhere on this matter and, therefore, that it is as upbuilding as possible, within the discrepancies that, as is remarkable and known to all, exist. But it is a matter on which we can discuss, on which we can discuss calmly and explain the positions of one or the other without, I insist, giving a little upbuilding spectacle. I will begin by telling you that we would have liked this initiative to have been debated a long time ago. As you know, he has suffered from various avatars, but the reality is that we are here today, I insist, later than we would have liked. That is why I want to begin today by explaining to you the four fundamental reasons why, despite the time that has elapsed, we still find your debate relevant and necessary and timely. Why did the reform of the 2015 Criminal Code introduce the figure of the permanent prison that can be reviewed in our legal system? It was basically for four reasons. The first of these, because it was identified that there was a continuous exposure of society to the most egregious crimes, from terrorism to the most abominable murders (of minors, of the disabled, of women raped...); secondly, because it was identified that the whole society or the social majority of this country also demanded an adequate punitive response to these specific crimes; thirdly, because it was identified – this is also an objective fact – that most European countries had this criminal response to these crimes of particular gravity and that in Spain there was no response to punish these crimes with proportionality that we all agree that they are of extreme gravity, and fourthly, because since 2011 the People's Party had been defending their inclusion in the Criminal Code. Therefore, it was the year 2015, after these generic arguments, and after this expressed will and this political position set by the People's Party as early as 2011, when the People's Party government had the opportunity to address a reform of the Criminal Code and introduce permanent prison reviewable in our legal system. I would like to tell you that the reviewable permanent prison is a perfectly defined and assessed sentence, and this is also a fundamental issue when it comes to addressing its content. Tasted and defined as to what and how it should be applied. It potentially applies, where appropriate, to a closed list of eight specific offences, the gravity of which alone justifies their inclusion. For example, murder of children under 16 years of age or especially vulnerable persons on account of their age, illness or physical or mental disability; subsequent murder against sexual freedom; multiple murder; genocide or crimes against humanity, and thus up to eight cases in which a court would impose this custodial sentence. Therefore, we are absolutely convinced that it is a penalty proportionate to the gravity of the crimes for which it is envisaged and, moreover, it is a reviewable penalty, not only because it says so, but because the practical effects of it prove it. After the completion of a minimum part of the sentence, the minimum part established by the sentence sentence, can be reviewed, with the possibility of the sentenced person obtaining freedom, provided that – and this is the most relevant – as long as guarantees of their effective reintegration are established. It is therefore a punishment that, by fulfilling the constitutional mandate, makes it possible to reintegrate. The sentenced person is not eternally condemned and the State does not disagree with the prisoner. If the prisoner succeeds in getting out of prison, it will be because he has obtained adequate training to reintegrate himself; if he has not obtained such training to reintegrate himself, he is prevented from going out on the street who is not in a position to obtain this reintegration into society, thus preventing him – and this is very relevant – from recidivizing his crimes, as has unfortunately happened in many cases in our country, such as the rapist of the elevator, the rapist of the stylus, the rapist of the portal and the case of Antonio García Carbonell, for example, among others. Moreover, it is also, as I said before, a figure endorsed by comparative law. In our environment, we are not going to go to other geographical areas, Italy, the United Kingdom, Greece, France, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Norway have been implementing this sentence for decades and, in addition, its incorporation into their respective penal codes was driven by political formations of different sensibilities. In France, he was President of the Republic François Mitterrand, for example. In other Nordic countries they also ruled social-democratic parties and, listen, it seems that it did not pose a serious problem for anyone. What I want to say is that it is a cross-cutting measure, in which there are people from various ideologies and political parties and governments of different status who have incorporated it into their legal systems. Moreover, and this is also relevant, it is a figure endorsed by the International Criminal Court, which contemplates it in its catalogue of penalties, specifically in our articles 77 and 110, and where it sets the same initial review period as in Spain, around 25 years. The International Criminal Court. It is also endorsed (up to twice) by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State and the European Court of Human Rights, which in repeated doctrine literally affirms that permanent reviewable imprisonment is legitimate and compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights whenever it is reviewable and offers the sentenced person a horizon or hope of liberation. Nor can we make it clear – like other arguments in favour of its incorporation into our legal system and, therefore, as well as the 2015 reform – that this measure has an important endorsement and social support. This figure, objectively, is endorsed and supported by a broad social majority, which independently, I insist, of its ideology or political subscription, that is, in a cross-sectional way it supports through successive surveys and opinion polls this figure. Let me remind you: the Justice Activity Observatory survey amounts to 82% of the social support for the reviewable permanent prison; a 2013 Sigma Two survey for The World The ABC Country Therefore, it should also be stressed that this social support is not a support that occurs at a point in time as a result of some anguish or reaction to an appalling crime, but is a majority support, and constant, and continued over time. We have been debating this for more than a decade, this country has been debating this for more than a decade and, therefore, it seems that the debate has been able to take place and has been conducted in a calm way as well and has been valued with rest by the citizens, apart from by the politicians. As you know – above all because I recalled it at the beginning of my speech – the permanent reviewable prison was introduced, I insist, the year 2015 in the framework of a wider reform, and in all these years, since 2015 – which has not been 20 years, but a few years have passed – there has only been one person condemned by this figure, namely, David Oubel, prosecuted for the murder of his two daughters of 4 and 9 years (he was the killer of the radial And I have to confess to them, although it is sometimes difficult to discern the insides or the heart of the head when referring to such debates, I have to confess to them that we are not very clear whether there is a penalty proportional to similar crimes. What is clear to us is that the most serious penalty that our legal system allows should be implemented for these murderers. The harshest possible criminal penalty and the greatest guarantees of non-recidivism is what is sought by the reviewable permanent prison and its introduction into our legal system. And today we are – and I am finishing now – again before this debate, the result of an initiative presented in the Congress of Deputies by the Basque Nationalist Party, whose tendency is to repeal the permanent prison that can be reviewed. From the year 2015 until our times it has not been the subject of controversy, nor of controversy, rather on the contrary, it has greatly comforted an important part of the population, but we find ourselves with an initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies that intends to repeal this figure. It has begun the repeal of its processing – it is a long process: in the Congress of Deputies a number of milestones must still be established in its processing. And what we want here today is to ask the rest of the formations of this House, in particular the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, for a correction, and we want to ask for a correction, as a result of a reflection: whether it is a measure that exists in the legal systems of our environment, countries with a broad and consolidated democratic path; whether it is a measure that has a social majority endorsement; whether it is a measure that also has the legal backing of important bodies, of important experts; whether it is a measure that seeks to guarantee the constitutional mandate of possibility of reintegration, provided that it can be carried out effectively, but what it also seeks to give a criminal, forceful and harsh response to extraordinary and particularly serious crimes, is a good measure and is a positive tool for ordering our society and, in this case, for giving a criminal response – as I say – to crimes of particular gravity and significance. That is why I would ask you, and through this non-legislative proposal, that we condition our parliamentary groups where they have to make the decision so that when it touches, at the end of their proceedings, the permanent prison that can be reviewed is not repealed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. We're going to the teams that don't run. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u56	Good morning, everyone. Well, I do not know what is the motivation of the People's Party's interest in repeating itself in this House, in which there is no competence in this matter, a debate that has taken place in the competent body, which is the Congress of Deputies. Because to ask our groups to influence it is not necessary for the Basque Parliament to reach any agreement. Then I believe that today there will be little novelty in the speeches or in the position that the groups in this House are going to make. I don't know if I'm going to be brief, what I'm going to follow is the advice to discuss calmly, because the House is not to give shows. We – the Socialist Group – believe that we are dealing with a debate on the prison policy model and recognize that everyone can propose a model. And the one that brings us to debate the People's Party is not our model of prison policy. It is a model that we believe is not in favour of reintegration; I do not think it is in favour of preventing the commission of serious crimes; nor does it compensate for the pain that the victims of the most abominable crimes that can occur and that all of us are moved by. There is another interpretation, which is the one you brought us here today, but it is not ours. Ours is that it is an unnecessary measure, that fills prisons, but that does not meet the justice and reparation needs of the victims, that does not prevent the commission of the crimes – you have avoided talking about it, but from 2015 to 2018 there have been terrible crimes –, nor does it favor the repentance of the criminals. And that is why our group, the Socialist Group, is going to vote against your proposal. We must remember that when the current Constitution was drafted, with regard to prison matters, the different legal realities of our democratic environment were analysed and expressly, from the beginning, two issues were vetoed: one is the death penalty and the other was life imprisonment for all kinds of crimes, without any exception. And it seemed to us socialists then, and it seems to us now, a wise decision. It was from this rejection, which is reflected in article 15 of the Constitution, when article 25.2 is drafted, that I will read it in its entirety for a specific reason which I will then tell you. Article 25.2 of the Constitution states: "Deprivation of liberty and security measures shall be directed towards re-education and social reintegration and shall not consist of forced labour. The person sentenced to imprisonment who is serving the sentence shall enjoy the fundamental rights of this Chapter [of which it is set forth in the Constitution], with the exception of those expressly limited by the content of the sentence, the meaning of the sentence and the prison law. In any case, you will be entitled to paid work and the corresponding benefits of Social Security, as well as access to culture and the integral development of your personality." And I wanted to read it in its entirety because in doing so I believe that we see the integrity of the intention of the constituent, which is that of reinsertion and that of the preservation of the rights of the sentenced person. And if the Constitution provides that a convicted person is entitled to paid work and social security benefits, it is because he is thinking of a life outside prison for the people who are punished. It is possible that someone – many even – think that criminals do not even deserve these rights, but our Constitution guarantees them, and the alternative presented to us today by the People's Party we believe not. It does not because what it proposes, from our point of view, is the confinement of people between the four walls of a cell. And it's true, this is a prison policy option, but it's not our prison policy option. Ours is not that the Penal Code serves to store people. Therefore, this is the first argument to reject this proposal: our interpretation of the prison model coincides with that made by the constituents of the Magna Charter. To this we have to add the issue of effectiveness to prevent crime. From the point of view of effectiveness, we know that in democracies or even the most serious existing penalty, which is the death penalty, it has avoided great tragedies, as it is not useful at all, and we have also said this at the time, in order to avoid jihadist terrorism, on which the risk is kept in our environment, because people willing to kill themselves will hardly deter the possibility of a death sentence. And citing something, unfortunately more domestic, we have a law, which is avant-garde, against gender-based violence and which also includes an express hardening of convictions in case of macho aggression and that is not avoiding or avoiding the lustful statistics that we unanimously regret here. That is why we have committed ourselves, and in that we have been coinciding all and all and it is the line of work that we want to follow, in the need to act before a woman ends up murdered. Therefore, the tightening of penalties cannot be sustained from the point of view of security. Security which, by the way, in Spain – the data say – is well above the average for the rest of Europe. What it also does not take away, it is true, that we have an average of serving sentences far above the European average and a prison population that absolutely exceeds all the ratios in our environment. The objective we have is that the crime rate has fallen noticeably before the entry into force of the permanent prison, which can be reviewed in 2015, and also that of death-related offences. We recognize that the perception of security can be another on the part of the citizenry, because of the public impact that some of these crimes have on us all, you and everyone, but we believe that this perception should not be used to legislate or to judge in a hot way, but should be combated from information, reflection and collaboration between the institutions and the citizenry. On the other hand, and as far as the question of recidivism is concerned, it is probably the matter that you most doubt can raise. The possibility that someone who has committed a crime may commit serious crimes again upon release from prison. Well, we have to say, and that also has to be made clear, that those who commit serious crimes currently serve between 30 and 40 years in prison, and except for those who belong to some kind of organized gang, recidivism is tiny. You mentioned four cases throughout history, surely if you had found 23 you would have told us. You know that: those who often reoffend are usually those who are sentenced for minor offences, those to whom this permanent prison figure does not apply. What we believe is that it is about strengthening a prison system in which prison officials, in all their different fields, carry out immense re-educational work, which in the vast majority of cases results in good results. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to listen in committee to those responsible for prison policy and we were told how the gamble they made and the strengthening of prison policies based on the re-education and reintegration of the sentenced person, contribute to the security of society, and as a result offered a decrease in the rate of recidivism below what they currently had in the State – these are objective and contradictory data that we were able to know yesterday and that you can also consult. An educational and social intervention effort that must also be taken into account before, and that is what all experts tell us, before the commission of the crimes. An objective that is fundamental and that pursues, for example, the Bilbao City Council with the adoption of the Security Pact, which has been unanimously supported by all political formations. That's a way of working that we think is right. The last issue to which I would like to refer, and also from the point of view of serenity, is that of the victims' point of view. We start from the fact that for them there will never be any comfort or punishment that can make up for their pain. Nor would the death penalty, because the unjust and cruel loss of a child cannot be compensated in any way. What the victims require is justice, that there be punishment and that it be commensurate with the damage caused. To tell a victim that 40 years is a very harsh penalty, because he really locks up a person throughout his adult life, is like not telling him anything, because everything will seem insufficient to him. Therefore, the Socialists are not going to enter into that interpretation, but we do believe that from Euskadi we have something to contribute to this debate: here we have suffered an organized crime that was dedicated to annihilating people and annihilating political wills, and here it has ended that crime without the need for permanent, verifiable prison. And if anything we have had here is demanding victims, extraordinarily demanding with the public authorities, but they have not taken their demands where they want to go now. And the victims, you also have to remember, and you have done so, are different and with different opinions, but on the very long way worked with the most diverse collectives and the most diverse opinions, they have accepted the current prison law and what they ask is that there be no leaps in the law, no new humiliations or revictimizations through public elevations of convicts. For socialists this attitude has also been essential in order to put an end to this organized crime, because it has been necessary to see very painful things. In particular, we recall the accusation made at the Congress of Deputies that we were betraying the victims while we were being killed ourselves. Never would it have occurred to us to slip the slightest suspicion of responsibility, nor to throw the memory of a murdered man and his relatives on another democratic force or on a Government. The Socialists, who have indeed had to suffer that suspicion, in addition to losing their comrades, believe that the responsible attitude we had then to manage the pain and reparation of the victims is the same one that we must keep before other crimes today. Therefore, admitting that there are other opinions about punishment – and you have explained it very well – the Socialists will vote against the proposal that you bring us here, because we believe that it will not be used to alleviate the pain of the victims, nor will it make us safer, nor will it make us a better country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u58	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all of you. The popular party has brought in a proposition to maintain a permanent prisoner, and our attitude will be quite contrary to this proposition. In our group, we are opposed to a permanent prisoner, and there are many reasons why we should be opposed. It is not necessary, it does not avoid crimes, it does not succeed in improving justice, it does not fulfil what the Constitution commands, it is contrary to human rights, and it is the humanist's worth. To bring this discussion here today, to bring it to the Basque Sea, is a double defect on the side of the Pontular Party, because the euscal society will not accept it, and will not accept a permanent prisoner. When we talk about "reviewable permanent prison," Mr. Semper, we don't have to use subterfuges, we can talk about "perpetual prison" or "perpetual chain." The calm debate does not have to hide behind subterfuges, with hollow words like "revisable". We are talking about life imprisonment, nothing more, and our group does not accept life imprisonment. He doesn't accept life imprisonment. It does not accept it because it is not necessary, because it has no capacity to prevent crimes, because it does not improve justice, because it is contrary to the Constitution, because it is contrary to basic human rights and because it breaks the humanistic values that inspire our society. I will explain each and every one of these issues. You have started by giving data on countries that have life imprisonment. He has forgotten to mention fundamental particularities that make us different from others. In Spain, the full implementation of the sentences leads to penalties which, as Mrs Castelo said, lead to between 30 and 40 years of imprisonment, between 30 and 40 years of imprisonment. In addition, probation may be established for another 10 years. And there is no release without judicial control. In other countries where life or similar imprisonment exists, the minimum sentence is not 30 or 40 years. It is 18 in France; in Germany, 15; Great Britain, 12; in Sweden, 10. Those countries have nothing to do with our country, nor with the reviewable permanent prison that you propose and that you have implemented. They have nothing to do with it. Here judicial control leads to the absence of a serious risk of recidivism and the guarantee of adequate punishment. Therefore, it is not necessary in any case. But in addition, and to put it this way, permanent reviewable imprisonment or life imprisonment does not prevent crimes, it does not have that capacity to prevent crimes, which is what society wants. Life imprisonment has been in force for three years in Spain and has not prevented any of the crimes – and I will not quote names, nor will I describe the murders – has not prevented any of the crimes that have caused public alarm or media alarm. It has no capacity to prevent the existence of potential criminals, because no penalty has the capacity to remove evil, as no penalty has the capacity to change the human condition. Therefore, establishing higher penalties does not guarantee anything. On the contrary, a multitude of criminal law experts and criminalists have opposed the permanent prison that can be reviewed precisely because they have made it clear that the criminal potential values much more the certainty that it will be condemned than the gravity of the penalty to which it will be subjected. And what happens in this country, what happens in Spain is that the certainty that it will be condemned does not exist, because justice does not work well. Therefore, what we have to guarantee is a reform of the justice system, which is also not going to be guaranteed by the reviewable permanent prison. Of course, it will not make justice faster and more effective, nor will it have more means, for example – Mrs Castelo has already mentioned this – to protect women or children with effective protection measures. He's not gonna do it, he's not gonna go that way. Nor will it allow, for example, for faster and more agile information transmission systems to cross data from detainees and potential criminals. He's not going that way either. So where's the reviewable permanent prison going? It goes without saying that basic human rights are not being respected. You said, "It has to be reviewable and it has to have a liberation horizon." This permanent, reviewable prison doesn't comply with it. The European Convention on Human Rights said that the sentence would have to be reviewed before 25 years and that there would have to be prison resocialization programmes. Well, the reviewable permanent prison can be reviewed at 25, 28, 30 or 35. You said "it's defined and valued." False, because it doesn't set a certain horizon and when there's no certainty when you're going to be reviewed, what happens is the psychological destruction of the person, because he doesn't know how long he's going to be or when he's going to be able to get out. So, when you say "it's about getting reinsertion training," it's exactly the opposite. When there's no certainty when you're going out, you psychologically destroy that person and what you're doing is that you don't have a chance of reinserting yourself, no chance, but eye, that our system doesn't have the means right now to reinsert. The professionals that exist are outnumbered, without means, without programs... There are no clear reintegration programmes. As I said, this penalty will not at all ensure that our justice system improves, not even in the area of reintegration, not even in that area. But as I say, not seeking justice is the worst thing that a permanent prison can have that can be reviewed, when it comes to a request for revenge, not for justice, but for revenge. That is driving us away from Europe; that is bringing us closer to the model of much more dangerous and violent countries, such as the United States, which has life imprisonment and also has the death penalty, and they are no more secure. What people want is to live in a safe country, and Spain and Euskadi are safe countries today. Spain and Euskadi are one of the safest countries in the world, and what we are going to achieve is a 250-year setback; because, look, the Spanish Constitution already makes it clear the reintegration, but it is that the Penal Code of 1928 abolished life imprisonment, textually, "to allow Spanish legislation to occupy a position of honour among the most humanitarian". We're gonna lose that one more time. And the Penal Code of 1870 already established that life imprisonment involved a pardon at the age of 30, which we now exceed. And in 1764, the illustrated Beccaria made it clear that any penalty that exceeds what is necessary to prevent future crimes is tyranny, tyranny. And this renunciation of the basic values of an advanced democratic and humanist society, this renunciation of the values of humanizing the penal and prison system, which all European countries have "They do," he says, "does not make our society safer and more humane, let us go to an eye-to-eye society, to crowds trying to lynch prisoners – as we have seen in recent months – from racist insults on the networks, from collective harassment to minors who are the children of alleged culprits. That's what we've seen in the last few months. And we are abandoning a safe society to go to the law of the jungle, to go to an inhuman society, with an unnecessary and ineffective penalty, which leads us to barbarism and the law of the jungle. And our group doesn't want that, Mr. Semper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u60	Good noon to all and thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. Mr. Sémper, you've been trying to give me some arguments in your interference to explain in a way that the proposition, which is morally and technically planned, had all the possible solution. You have tried to explain that whoever proposes will also respect substantial rights, that it is complete, and that the European standards are, as it were, received in this proposition. But I think that is one thing, an essay, and another thing quite different from that which really lies behind this proposition, that it is true. And what I am saying is, it is not true of what you plan, and of what arguments you have already said, we shall see, and how these arguments are, and how they are not true and not true. But before we examine your proposition, I think it is a very important thing, and we must be on the table, and it is when we make laws, how we make them, and how we bind them in the application of that law, that we make such laws as society wills, and what society we desire. It has been mentioned in the first place that debatin is a penance for politics. Yes, but that too: what value we pretend to have in society, and according to which laws we propose them. And your worth and ours, and the society we want, and how we will have those laws, are not equal, and therefore your laws are of one sense, and ours are of another sense. And what the law receives is not always just, it is not lawful, and they do not always respect fundamental rights. And there are many instances in this sense. There is a sentence that I have read that I think is very important, and it is also said by a person who had responsibilities in prison institutions, and who is not from Euskal Herria Bildu, and who is not from the left abertzale, and who we have also criticized many times. He said: "It is difficult to imagine a punishment more cruel than life imprisonment, which is to condemn someone to live without horizon, without hope for the future, without the future. For many people it is a punishment more ruthless than death." Mercedes Gallizo said that something he knew about how prisons worked, how they were being carried out, and when he said so, legal reform had not yet been made. Look, this legal reform, the life sentence, was in the Spanish Penal Code. Podemos' partner spoke of the 1928 code. That code was in force during the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and there came life imprisonment. And when did he come back? With the absolute majority of Mariano Rajoy. The comparisons are there. And it's a very bad euphemism to call this "verifiable permanent prison," because it's not true. And you call it that because you have not dared to put the real name on it and you have given it a name so that we think it is, in fact, good and it is appropriate and you have given it this name. And some shame has to give them, because they don't even say what they want and they've had to invent a name for what actually doesn't stop being life imprisonment. Y ha ha ha ha unaley en Esña, en el 2003, que planeba 40 años de priorón. It's too bad that máxima ya tuba establecida en 40 años de primosón. Mire, the total of hell shouldn't be made to know if a person gets into prison when he's 20 years old and he's 40 when he gets out he'll be 60. How's he gonna get out? How's he gonna get out? But there is one other thing: Well, he who comes in when he's 60 and he's 40, maybe he won't leave. And what we have to do with that is how these punishments are performed in the first degree in isolation... With all the consequences that it has. And there is one question, my fellow Members who spoke to you before me about a series of arguments that you have given and have been taking them apart. I'll tell you two things. You said that it does not compromise inhuman and degrading punishment and that there are judicial decisions that support this issue. Well, the European Court of Human Rights, at least in two judgments, one against the United Kingdom and one against Turkey, has shown that life imprisonment as well as long-term sentences, in certain circumstances, contribute to the violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, "In particular, about long-term sentences, has shown concern when there is no spirit of being able to benefit from measures such as probation." I mean, this is what Europe says. I know that what Europe says does not matter much to you, but it does. He doesn't say what you say, he says other things. The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture has also spoken about these issues and has also said no. You say you have no objection to criminal principles. It does, because the principles that must be inspired by the Criminal Code, the laws, must be other values, values of justice in a democratic society. And those who inspire this law are not those. That's why I told you before that it's very important to make laws to see what society we want and how we want to make it. And these are not the inspiring principles. In the Spanish State, the laws are essentially punitive, essentially punitive. The laws of the Spanish State in criminal matters are made with punitive populism. And what's going on? They raise issues that have more symbolic values than legal values, and then the debate is another, and you can't legislate from there, and you can't legislate with those parameters. And you mentioned the victims, the demands you mentioned, you mentioned that there is a large demand for that society... Well, I don't know, I didn't hear that, but what I have to realize is that victims can never condition in this case, nor is there a law and a criminal policy in a country, because the subject, the social benefit, and the society, are a far wider concept, and when things are done, they must be done. So when you say that victims end with a lot of things, you know it's not true, and it's out of all this. Azkeneko's a slut. The truth is that the question we should ask ourselves when we talk about these things is whether as a society we are willing to take a measure of this caliber, a measure that is cruel, that has been proved – and previous parliamentarians have given us data – that it is ineffective, that it is unnecessary, rather than doing what we should do: providing resources of all kinds, educational, prevention, measures of all kinds of characteristics, to effectively reduce crimes and to do things differently. And our answer is in favour of that. And since it is in favour of that, it is against the proposal. That's what we're saying here, but we said the same thing in Madrid. And your proposal is also late because it's your proposal that things are planned for Congress, that discussion, and that's a discussion, and then things have been cleared up in Congress. Eta azken errflexioa, éta hau izango da gure filophyren esanahia gai honekiko: Life imprisonment doesn't make a society safer, but it certainly doesn't make it better. Because if revenge and justice are confused, we are not doing things better either to eradicate crimes or to live more calmly and fully of rights and freedoms. For all this reason, we won't protect your proposal and we'll say no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u61	Thank you, madam. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Our parliamentary group has not tabled an amendment to the urgent non-legislative proposal of the People's Group, but I imagine that, because of the initiatives carried out with our party in the Congress of Deputies, the proponents will have no doubt what the meaning of our vote will be. A no. And a no further round to the life imprisonment introduced in the penal legislation in 2015 by the People's Party. And we say firmly, "No," because we believe that behind such a punishment there is an eternal penalty, and that it is incompatible with a system based on reason and essential rights." The incorporation of life imprisonment, which can be reviewed in the Criminal Code, implies the most regressive amendment of criminal legislation in recent decades. He brings us back to times before the Constitution – Mr Becerra referred to – by going back a century in criminal law. It is a great delay in the legal and principle of punishment, and of the worst examples of the laws of punishment, which are made by the pushing of elections. On the other hand, we doubt the constitutionality of this law. It is true that it is not for us that the chief question is, what concerns us is not legality and constitutionality, but the occasion and need of it; The PNV has already stood against the General Courts, as well as the entire parliamentary arch, and we filed, together with deputies from the rest of the groups, an appeal of unconstitutionality in June 2015. In fact, the Constitution of 78 excluded the death penalty and also, indirectly, life imprisonment, by requiring that the penalties be geared towards re-education and social reintegration – as Mrs Castelo mentioned – in article 25.2 "that she has read." We understand that this sentence is directly in conflict with the principles of re-education and social reintegration of prisoners. Moreover, being indeterminate is an inhumane penalty that violates the principle of legality – a principle that we understand to be basic in a State of law in its legal security aspect – and is not proportional, except from a vision of the law of the heel of justice, incompatible in a State of law, and also violates the right to the dignity of persons and not to be subjected to degrading treatment, which also protects article 15 in relation to 10.1 of the Constitution. But the question is whether this measure was necessary at the high cost to human rights that it entails. We might think that the crime rates in Spain were rising alarmingly for the adoption of this measure but nothing further from reality: according to the Statistical Yearbook of the Ministry of the Interior, police, judicial and prosecutor's memoirs, the number of more serious crimes continues to decrease. In fact, Spain is at the lowest levels of crime at European level. But, on the other hand, it has one of the highest prison population rates – yesterday we were told that it is the second largest country in the European Union, after the United Kingdom – and it is also at the highest levels of sentence enforcement. Recently, on 20 March, a report by the Council of Europe says that the average prison stay in Spain is 21.9 months – more than twice the 9.8 months in the 47 countries analyzed. For example: compared to that almost 22 months, in France there are 8.5 and in Germany 8.2–. This shows that the Spanish Penal Code was one of the toughest in Europe, and this is happening, as Mrs Goirizelaia said, since the 2003 reform, which already provided for very long-term custodial sentences reserved for the most serious crimes, up to 40 years of effective enforcement. We therefore find this excessive punitive rigour incongruous. On the other hand, according to the CIS, in July 2015, when the new Criminal Code came into force, the concerns of citizens had nothing to do with the problems generally associated with this measure – citizen insecurity, terrorism, etc. Nor to this day, if we attend to the barometer elaborated in January 2018. According to these CIS data, Spanish society was and is more interested in taking measures to reduce unemployment and corruption, as well as to improve the economic and political situation. In particular, concern about insecurity was one of the three main problems for only 2.7% of the population. Therefore, Mr Semper, it was not a measure demanded by society. And finally, it was not a measure called for by the experts, neither the Bar Council, nor the majority criminalistic doctrine, nor the University through the chairs of criminal law, nor the Prosecutor's Office, nor the General Council of the Judiciary, nor the Judicial Police, nor the staff of penal institutions. Even the Supreme Court has referred in several judgements to the illegality of long sentences. There is even the fact that the legislator does not justify the reasons that led him to incorporate this measure into the Criminal Code, and this lack of motivation is criticized both by the General Council of the Judiciary and by the Council of State. We are simply talking about new social demands and the need to strengthen confidence in the administration of justice. We understand that we must not legislate hotly, at the dawn of circumstances, no matter how terrible they are, which happen at a certain time and of what the most populist might be. We are, as we said, in a penal system that already includes 40 years of imprisonment, which can be perfectly effective. What are you looking for with this, justice or revenge? We understand that the legislator must refrain from revenge and seek justice. The victims of these horrendous crimes must have a prominent place in public policy, of course. They must have not only state aid but also special protection and accompaniment that mitigates their pain, but must not intervene in punitive legislative work, except that what is sought is revenge and not the rehabilitative justice that must inspire a democratic penal system. No penalty, said Mrs Castelo, may not even be death's, will be sufficient comfort for the parents of a murdered minor; therefore, no penalty can be made for that purpose. And with regard to the effectiveness and efficiency of the administration of justice, it is not possible to obtain more or less harsh penalties, but rather to adapt the public service to the needs of the citizenry, in response to the demands of judges and prosecutors who are threatening to strike because they speak of workload in judicial bodies and lack of resources in the courts. It has also been argued that it is a punishment existing in many democratic systems, and it is true, though only from the purely semantic point of view. It is true that there are countries that collect it, others that do not collect it – like Portugal, Scotland, Croatia... , which do not have life imprisonment – but this argument starts, first of all, from an important historical ignorance, which is that life imprisonment in most of these European countries is a historical residue that was implemented in the 1950s-60s, as an alternative substitute for the death penalty for the punishment of the most serious crimes, unlike Spain, where life imprisonment was abolished even before the death penalty. On the other hand, no European country with this kind of penalty maintains such ironic guarantees as those provided for in Article 25.2 of the Constitution. And finally, in those countries where this type of sentence is foreseen, generally the time for the review of prison stay is much lower than that initially foreseen in Spain – generally the average is around 15 years old. Therefore, the Spanish life sentence is the toughest in Europe, bringing the review deadlines beyond the 25 years that the European Court considers to be a reasonable limit. A country with a crime rate as low as Spain, with a penal code among the toughest in Europe, we do not think it needs such measures. In conclusion, Euzko Abertzaleak understands that, regardless of what the Constitutional Court says about its possible constitutionality or not, the reviewable term of permanent imprisonment should be repealed from our criminal legislation because it is inhumane and totally unnecessary, inappropriate and ineffective. And, consistent with that and with great conviction, our initiative in Congress to repeal it. And, just as Mr Semper said that there has been some delay here, we urge you not to have these delays in Congress that seem to be voluntary and intentional. We understand that it is not effective in preventing crimes, as we have unfortunately seen a few weeks ago with this sentence in force. According to the criminological investigation, it shows that the hardening of penalties does not deter the offender from committing crimes, but it can endanger the basic values of modern democracy: it compromises some of the fundamental values that shape us as a democratic society. The concept of justice understood as revenge or expression of the feelings of hatred and revulsion of society is not the most acceptable concept of the criminal system of a State that is called democratic and law, which must be based on a series of human values that must reach both victims and offenders. The legislator cannot be guided by the headlines and legislate from viscerality, away from the rationality that is presumed to be. That is why, in our view, it is a disproportionate, inhumane, indeterminate and contrary to the resocializing orientation of the sentence. And our party, the Basque Nationalist Party, is not for the work of deepening this model that the People's Party – like the United States, an example of the ineffectiveness of hard-handed policies – proposes, but rather for other models, with resocialization and reintegration as objective. And for all these legal reasons, of political effectiveness criminal, social and even moral exposed, we will vote against. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to answer them all, although I've taken some rather chaotic notes. Starting with the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, I believe that it is also appropriate that we should do so when dealing with this debate using expressions that are closer to reality. You have spoken of "heel law" and may probably seem a minor issue, but it seems relevant to me. We all know what the law of heel is, the law of heel is to do to the offender the same thing he has done to the victim, it is the eye for the eye. Obviously, we're not talking here on those terms. I'm saying this because it's best to lower the momentum to talk to some property. Nor has it been enacted hotly; in any case, it is the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party that wants to legislate hotly, repealing the permanent reviewable prison, which has been approved since 2015. Therefore, no one is talking about there being an initiative by the Government and the People's Party to legislate in the hot; there is a hot repeal, which is what we are asking you through this initiative to reconsider, to give this legal figure a chance, a time to see how it works. I'm telling you, to this day there's only been one person, the radial killer. We probably have to accept that there are individuals, that there are men and women who cannot be reintegrated into society, because they do not even have that capacity for reintegration. Not only because their crimes have been extraordinarily serious and execrable, but not only because the legal system and, in this case, the criminal penalty also have a retributive orientation. Or do we forget about this too? It is true that the orientation of custodial sentences must be aimed at the reinsertion of the sentenced person, but we cannot forget that it has a retributive function, which grows according to the gravity of the crime and that some of the societies, I insist, in our environment have decided to use this tool. It is true that there is no sense of widespread insecurity in our country. It's true. Fortunately we live in a country, in general terms, safe, especially in comparative terms, but this is not by the work and grace of divine inspiration; it is because our Police works, because the Civil Guard works, it is because the Ertzaintza works, it is because the criminal response works, it is because there is a cultural and social context that works..., but still, there are people who are capable of committing crimes and atrocities like those that we all have in mind, and who are people who are not likely to be reintegrated into society. They cannot be physically reinserted. It is not a matter of preventing the crime that is materially impossible to prevent. It is as if someone intended to say that, as the Circulation Code does not prevent fatal accidents a year, it is necessary to end the Circulation Code or that it is unserviceable. This is not the nature of the punitive response of a rule of law. It has a socializing function, it is true, of prevention, of deterrence, but it is not the fundamental orientation of a penal code, in any of our modern societies. It has essentially a retributive, punitive response to occasional harm. And, hey, in Italy it's 26 years to be able to review the sentence, in Italy, 26 years. In the United Kingdom there are 20; in Greece there are 20, Mr Tsipras has not corrected it, it is 20 years; in Norway, which is not the European Union, but is part of our geographical area, there is the fork between 21 and 30. How can you say, Mr Becerra, that you have had a calm intervention, that this is "the law of the jungle"? In all these countries the "law of the jungle" reigns? In other words: if the full performance of sentences – which there would be much to discuss about this, because, obviously, not for killing a five-year-old, for murdering him, you fall 40 years of penalty, eye!, nor do you have to fully serve the penalty, eye! This is utterly false!–... And although there is no adequate criminal response to the murder of an eight-year-old, he obviously has to have a strong criminal sanction, but no one guarantees that he will spend the rest of his life in prison, much less. Not much less he's going to be 40, not 25 years old. And no one guarantees you that you can't go out with a permit and re-offend. Is it "the law of the jungle" that prevails in those countries that I have just numbered? It's just not true. It is not true that it is contrary to the Spanish Constitution or, in any case, there is an appeal before the court, which must be expected. You have legislated hotly and have not waited for the ruling of the Constitutional Court. It is not contrary to human rights. It is not contrary, it is false, because the European Court of Human Rights has expressly ruled on this figure. It's just that the International Criminal Court, too. I insist, Mrs Goirizelaia, that you analyse the articles from 77 to 101, which also speak of the revision from 25 years old, as a tolerable top date. That's what he says! Look, we can disagree on suitability, but not on objective data. And I'm finishing up, Madam President. Look, Mrs Goirizelaia was asking – this is part of the core of the debate, isn't it?; not from today, but permanent – what model and values we want for society, as a society that we defend each other, and I believe that in general terms we can agree on the most fundamental, most important aspects, and in fact it is what allows us to live with different people in the same public space. And then there are specific aspects, such as criminal sanction, criminal response to crimes. And Mrs Goirizelaia asked a second question as to whether it is acceptable for this society, for us, the permanent prison that can be reviewed. Look, we believe in reinsertion, we believe in the possibility of reinsertion of a prisoner who has committed a cruel crime that has been...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u65	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u66	Because the Constitution says so, fundamentally, and because it is in our heart, in our way of understanding life and understanding the world. What we do not want is for someone who cannot be reinstated to go out on the street, and what we want is for those who have committed execretable crimes, such as those we have enumerated, to be given an extraordinarily harsh sentence, because we also believe that the Criminal Code has that function, and must respond firmly and harshly to those who are capable of committing execretable crimes. We want him firmly. And we think there are people who can't be reinserted...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u67	Please finish, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u68	And I'm convinced and we're absolutely convinced that a guy who's able to set up a radial saw, murder his two four- and nine-year-olds, using a knife and drugging them beforehand, that guy can't be reinserted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u70	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And that is certainly what some did in the Congress of Deputies, for some electoralist and populist interest. It is that here, Mr Semper, we should not be talking about this, because for this we had a perfectly valid camera for your discussion, but you for something – and you know very well what is behind it – want to bring it not only to this House, to all the autonomous chambers and to all the municipalities. You will know why; we have it pretty clear. But you have a certain inconsistency, because you tell me, "If the father who killed with the radial has no reinsertion, he doesn't have to go out." That's what you said here. Do you know what that's called? Perpetual chain. And you know what Article 15 of the Constitution says about that? It's not possible, it's not possible. Okay? And that's what they're really defending. He says things that aren't right. Since 2015 we said that this was an "unnecessary" measure, because our Criminal Code already collected penalties from 30 to 40 years, already passed from 30 to 40 the completion for the most serious crimes. Because, of course, everything doesn't have full compliance, like not everything is reviewable permanent prison, right? But with the previous legislation that means that in a penalty imposed for several crimes –125 years in these bulging sentences –, the maximum compliance that our Penal Code establishes is 40. This means that the third grade cannot be reached before the age of 32 years in prison, and that parole never before the age of 35. That's before the 2015 reform. And you know perfectly well, even if you want to take examples, that the average also of the review in the countries of our European environment, those to which we normally want to look, is much lower. And it is not true that the United Kingdom has an average of 20, it has the revision in 14; as France has it in 20 and Germany in 18. Not in the 25 or 35 proposed. And you also know that when the 2015 reform was made there were no objective data for that reform, because the crime rate in Spain is among the lowest in Europe. In particular, the number of annual murders, which has fallen by 30% over the past three decades, speaks of a rate of 0.85 per 100,000 inhabitants of voluntary homicides. This rate is 65 % lower than the European average, which is 1.3; it is less than a fifth of that of the United States, 4.75, with life imprisonment and death penalty; or a fraction of what is already happening in other countries that have nothing to do with the typology of its Penal Code, such as Latin America, with 25.49 %. Therefore, you know that there is no objective data to support you in this amendment, and for us, and what is fundamental, it violates the principle of reintegration and re-education that we believe is guaranteed by the Spanish Constitution and that we also believe and share it and defend it. You said, "How do we prevent a father from taking a radial and killing his children?". For with proceedings prior to the commission of the offence, because the reviewable permanent prison will not prevent a father from taking the radial; it will be later. He will not take it for others, okay; but we want to prevent that from happening, and that is not achieved with the permanent penalty, with no penalty is achieved. So what needs to be done is to act socially before and strengthen certain policies before. Okay? Therefore, if it is really true that – you have closed your intervention by saying so – you believe in reintegration and re-education, what you should do, and bet from the government that you now lead, is a clear bet on resocialisation and re-education in prisons, in the prison institution, and provide more resources and more effective policies on this issue. Therefore, we believe that we must continue to implement the prison policy, the prison model contained in our Constitution. We believe that a humanist and guaranteeing model, and it is the model we want to defend. We believe that your proposal is in the opposite direction and therefore in this Parliament as well as in the other autonomous parliaments or in those local authorities where you want to carry this issue, our vote will always be the same: no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u72	Let us see, Mr Semper, you have said that the aim of the sentence must be to ensure adequate punishment and avoid recidivism. That's what we agreed on. It'll be the only thing. It has not given any data, except four examples it has given of repeat incidents, of which are the rates of recidivism in Spain and in other countries. He didn't. He has given four examples of people who have been released and recidivized in one prison permit, four. What I have told you is that this sentence is unnecessary because the proper punishment is already guaranteed in the Spanish Penal Code and the possibility of recidivism with the judicial system we have is minimal, because there is judicial control. On some occasions it may happen that it is not fulfilled. Four data you have said, you have given no more, you have given no more. What people want is for justice to be done. When these things happen that we see in the newspapers, in the media, what people say is that justice is done. For justice to be done, there has to be a good system of justice. If you want justice, and there is no revenge, and I am sure you want it, guarantee your Government that there is a better system of justice. If we want a father with a restraining order not to kill his children, whether with a radial or whatever, we will ensure that that restraining order is complied with, we will ensure that it is complied with. The justice system is not ensuring that all women, and boys and girls who are under threat are safe, it is not guaranteeing it, because the justice system is not working well, it is not putting in place the appropriate means. They want to do justice, work in that direction. And if we want to ensure that victims of serious crimes are satisfied, are covered by society, what we cannot do is to put a permanent prison that can be reviewed only for eight crimes. Right now, among those crimes are not the trafficking kamikazes, are not the torturers, are not the people who kidnap and kill people, are not the drug traffickers... There are many crimes that are currently not treated as those that are subject to reviewable permanent imprisonment. We're making first-degree and second-degree victims, because whoever was killed by a child hit by a bicycle has the same feelings as whoever was killed by a child with a radial saw. And I don't want to be tricked, but this is the case, Mr. Semper: you are in hot legislation with certain specific crimes and not with others. And look, I didn't mention it at first, but Mrs Castelo dropped it: if I said at first that bringing this debate is doubly wrong, it is because in Euskadi we have had decades of suffering with cruel and horrendous crimes, horrendous!, and yet this society – and you know it better than anyone else – has been able to overcome hatred and the thirst for revenge on the basis of democratic firmness and on the basis of ethical commitment, and this society cannot forget it, cannot forget it. This society, Basque society, knows the path of justice and knows that in order to take that path, neither shortcuts nor the false solutions can be ignored. And I believe that the one that you bring here today, the reviewable permanent prison, is a false solution, is a false solution that is already proving over time that it is not the solution that this country needs. I would therefore encourage you not only to put forward the permanent prison that can be reviewed, but also not to put this proposal to the vote directly, because it is out of time in this House. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. EHGG rep. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u74	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr. Sémper, it's not true, it's not clear that in front of this discussion, because the Eunctarian Party proposed this article in Madrid, and this law, no. It's a discussion that you've been willing to increase and penetrate into it, and that's why the discussion began, and that's why it went out into the street. You've got to take care of both things. And with that there was a social debate. Nik entzuten doubtan zure hitzetan bear babes handiko gauza of her age sozial babes handia daukala proposed in honek, begiratu zer egin doubtan. Hasi naiz begiratzen Interneten noren babesa dankan eta zer babesa dankan alde batekoa éta bestekoa, éta nortzuk daden alde age nortzuk daden kontra. Is it badakizu zer topatu doubt? I have found that the lawyers, the former judges, judges of the Supreme Court, people who have been working in the Constitutional Court stand against and with technical arguments, with legal arguments explain why. And I have met relevant people and surely with very good studies, such as Carmen Lomana or Laura Matamoros, or people of this type, who stand in favor, with technical arguments of such caliber that "if I were so..., what I would like is to be killed, and the best is such, but as it cannot be, life imprisonment". I mean, that's what we don't want. We do not want those values, in those terms, to be reflected in the laws, because we do not want to make such a society. Tell me, how do we prevent it? Don't make me a debate phase, don't make me a false dilemma. Don't tell me that I have to choose between human rights and victims, that I have to choose between one and the other in this debate. Because reintegration is not incompatible with security, with rights. It is not incompatible and it must also be compatible. And this law doesn't make it compatible, it does the opposite. I do not believe that a harsher law will protect us, at all, from irrationality, nor personality disorders, nor any. No, that's not gonna happen. Because you're cheating on me and you're saying, "Of course, how do we prevent anyone who knows...?". No, no, we already know that's not gonna happen. But that is not the debate, the debate is another different one, and that is what we are putting forward in those terms. That's why that dilemma is fake. He says, "I agree with reinsertion." So hide you and your party, how hide you! They dissimulate much to agree, because every time someone asks for prison benefits with the laws in force, which also say about reintegration, every time someone suggests that they want to go out applying the law, every time they ask, the prison guidelines are against any prospect of reintegration, even though a balance is made and it is said that some people who request this have a forecast of criminal repetition zero. But the reinsertion prognosis is not good and you say no. Well, if you agree, put it into practice now. I'm talking to you about very specific cases, which you know. There are a lot of Basque prisoners who are in that situation. Put it into practice now, we're going to make a lot progress and we're going to improve a lot. Look, when you speak and compare with the penalties in other countries..., of course, but there is a very clear question: in other countries – by the way, the data you have given of some countries and the time that lasts are not real, they have been corrected already – but in this case the penalty that is put – and do not forget that I have read the articles well, I have read them well – is indeterminate, because it is not said when, it is said "from". But in the other European countries it is said in so many years. Here it is said "from", and on whom does the "from" depend? For surely of those boards and of those sites that have a concept of reintegration not in favor of the defendant or the person he is fulfilling. That is why I proposed that the other debate also had to do with prison policy and how we want to do it and what measures we want to put forward. The last word, and that's what I'll take when we have a feminine movement and a woman's phrase we use to say we don't want one thing. And we say, "No es no." In this case, the same thing. We don't protect this, we're against these guys and we're gonna say no. I've already told you and now I confirm the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u75	Thank you, madam. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u76	Thank you. Well, first of all, I was talking about hot legislation. We'd have to go back or analyse the facts a little bit. We spoke before the 2003 reform of the Criminal Code, in which the People's Party did not raise, despite the harshness of those penalties, which cried until the age of 40, and the hardening also for the obtaining of prison benefits was not raised. I'm gonna fix it. He said that since 2011 they have been defending their inclusion in the Criminal Code. It wasn't in 2011, it was in 2009. In 2009, in the process leading to the reform of the 2010 Criminal Code, the People's Party in its amendments referred to "reviewable life imprisonment". A little clearer than now. What is more: Mr Rajoy himself, today President of the Government, said that there is no need to be afraid of life imprisonment if it is verifiable. Therefore, it was from 2009 when the People's Party began with this theme. But why do you say that commitment or electoral strategy starts in 2011? Well, I'm not going to remind you of the circumstances that occurred at the time. I believe that we are all aware of two horrendous crimes that occurred on those dates and that gave rise to the commitment of the People's Party in this electoral strategy. An electoral strategy that he wants to continue in this Parliament today. He has also followed it these weeks with the collection of signatures at its headquarters in Bizkaia, with initiatives in various autonomous parliaments, general councils and municipalities and, well, the bochhornous plenary of the Congress of Deputies mentioned above. I do want to make it clear to you that criminal legislation, from our point of view, should not be used electorally. He says we haven't waited...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u78	... that we have not waited for the resolution of the unconstitutionality appeal. I've told him twice, in Spanish and Basque. The Basque Nationalist Party, regardless of what the Constitutional Court says, understands that this reviewable life sentence should be repealed from our legislation – as I repeat – for inhumane, totally unnecessary, inopportune and ineffective. He spoke of the European Court of Human Rights – that court, which is curious, usually gives the Spanish State behind the ears continuously (doctrine Parot Atutxa Portu-Sarasola The European Committee against Torture, as it referred to comparative law, also says that "any prison that extends beyond 15 years of age is seriously inconvenient for the effective reincorporation of the sentenced person into society". And the Council of Europe a little earlier, in 76, recognizes that "the execution of long-term sentences can have a detrimental effect on the prisoner and his environment, thus not contributing to their reintegration". Therefore, here we face the resocializing and reinsertion goal in the society you said was legitimate: the retributive end of the sentences. He said that how to prevent – he set a little example a little danteco–, well, as already said some office of his party, which was also a parliamentarian, says that this was not approved to prevent. The reviewable permanent prison was not approved to prevent it. Otherwise, he's about to punish whoever commits them. Its purpose is therefore clear that it is revenge, retribution, neutralization and general intimidation and, ultimately, the hard hand in front of the offender. This retributive purpose to which you referred. And also, as we said before, we understand that it is not a way to protect society. It doesn't protect. It is not the penalty that protects society, they have told you. What protects are the means for justice, it is the prevention of crime and it is the accompaniment of victims until they need it. It's the 21st century, not the 19th. Finally, with this climate of serenity that we have discussed I will make reference to... Watching a program by Euskal Telebista, there was a Tertullian, akin to the People's Party, who said: "What does the PNV gain from this initiative? What interest can it have?", I say for their ideological tendency and for their manifestations. Moreover, I would add: what does the PNV gain from this initiative, what interest can it have with its irrelevant or insignificant five Members, which you said in the campaign? Well, look, I'm going to answer: the PNV won't win anything. The winner is our society. We are a party that defends the humanist orientation of the entire penal system, that defends the commitment to the reintegration of people, in accordance with the main international human rights regulations, and this life imprisonment that you pose is contrary to our humanist values. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. After discussion, we'll put the original text of a proposition like Euskalka Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u80	So, not allowed original text. Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of Eva Lopez de Rockiebe Saez de Maturuna EHGGGD, about the measures to make the State of Women. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Lopez de Laroyabe, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u81	Yes, hello, good noon. I promise to be quick, because seeing the hours seemed like my point was going to stay for the afternoon, but I'm glad, so I'm going to try to be quick and with the consensus I've found, let's hope we don't even have to replicate. Good morning, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u83	A few weeks ago, EH Collect brought an interpelation into this Chamber, direct interpelation, intelligent interpelation, concerning the State of Women of Farmers. During that day Mrs. Tapia, the chief physician, confessed that time had passed, two and a half years ago, and that duties had not been committed in the government. In this respect it is a kind of thanks to confession, but we invite him to take the required steps again. And today's goal is the only one: On the other hand, the state of the peasant women. And I won't repeat the intervention, the opposite. We made a formal and serious offer to the government that day, and we want to put the offer back on the table today. Of course, we can see that it's necessary to make specific measurements for the publication of the state of peasant women...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u85	...from one side, and from the other side to denounce. Our proposal is very clear and we also appreciate the tendency to negotiate all the teams. That day I said clearly that our intention was not to appeal to the Government, I repeat, today, but to take real steps, that's what we're here today, we're only asking for political will and we're offering you assembling. And first to follow, and together with the interpellation that I made that day, I must say that today I do not represent myself – that I heard that day – I do not represent myself – I want it to be clear, in case there were any doubts in that intervention, in that interpellation. Today, Euskal Herria Bildu represents thousands of women who work and live from agriculture, who work and live from livestock, and who mostly share this work with their partners 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. From there I want to be interpreted, not personally. The implementation of a law is not personal, it is a political will; the implementation of a law, of course, is the political will in capital letters, and now the Government has a golden opportunity to move from theory to practice. And in this case even more, when it affects women at clear risk of inequality. Thousands of women who cannot differentiate between productive and reproductive work. Thousands of women who have to take care of the care of the elderly, of the young, of the barracks, of the baserris Being a woman in the primary sector means the absence of basic rights, it means bumping into any real equality proposal. Being a woman in the primary sector involves carrying two backpacks full of problems, but often they cannot be claimed, and they cannot be claimed out of fear of the future and the situation, that yes, personal. And I'm gonna drop out of theories to get practical. Women in the primary sector do not, for the most part, have economic independence; they cannot decide for themselves. There are women who at fiscal level, who at economic level do not have their rights covered, and we are talking here today in the Basque Parliament about this. There are women who, wanting to break up with this kind of labor relationship, are prevented, because there are laws that prevent this fact. They are not theoretical obstacles, they are not emotional or symbolic obstacles, they are real problems we know and know that they exist. When we talk about family exploitation, it seems we're talking about something idyllic, a cow grazing on a mountain. No, we are talking about exploitation, possibly exploitation of one of the parties, and possibly exploitation that is more repressed than the other. Here comes any reality that women can live, such as violence, lack of rights, lack of resources, lack of social services; here the power of inequality, if I may, rises to the highest level of expression. You guys want to be accomplices to that? I don't. I know him very closely, and I don't want to be an accomplice to this. It is up to us to offer equal economic rights from this House, it is up to us to offer equality in social rights and political rights to women who may not have access by themselves. And give them the opportunity to choose, choose to work, manage, care, study, occupy leadership positions, occupy seats in these chambers, also union positions. That is our obligation in this House today. And let me go back to March 8th, the international day of working women. I remember that that day, besides, I explicitly asked the PNV bench to join the feminist strike, and well, they didn't listen to me. It's true he missed a chance. For me, a historic opportunity. I think they missed the opportunity to say loud and clear that feminism is more than just a word, it is something that seeks equality, the guarantee to cover these basic rights, and in these women in particular, and that it certainly does not seek confrontation. We didn't want to look for confrontation, and so it was. Of course, it wasn't a holiday for me. I didn't come to work, right; I was on the street, I was on strike. It was a point and followed in the feminist struggle, it was not a point and apart. We could say that it was controversial, not because it was controversial, but because it moved many consciences. Right. It was horizontal and it was something that gave much thought and, specifically, in the primary sector, in the rural sector, because there making a strike means that the world stops. I don't know if the same thing happened in the cities. And in Gasteiz there was a historic demonstration that day, a mass demonstration, in which three tractors opened the march, a demonstration with many people, with many women and three tractors representing women workers in the countryside, represented many women who could not even in their best dreams on that day have come to manifest. They represented the union with the land; they represented the maintenance of that rural culture, of that agrarian culture; they represented the peoples, the roots. These three tractors represented only sorority between women at the end of the day. Those three tractors at the start of the march put the women farmers and livestock at the head of the struggle, so that those who come – who have to come, because if not this depopulates – have it easier and have all the basic rights guaranteed. So I went on strike on March 8th. I didn't come to work, as I said, but I fought. That's right, if the country women do a real strike, there'd be trouble both in the villages and in the farms, but even in their personal lives. The day will come which will not be necessary. Well, sperms. And I'm going to take advantage of the rostrum too to complain. And I'm going to complain about a woman. I don't usually like complaining about a woman, but in this case I'm going to complain about a woman, a game and a way of doing things. And I am going to complain specifically about Izaskun Bilbao, MEP of the PNV. I'm going to complain because in politics you don't have to sell smoke, because in politics you have to be humble, because in this case I think you've sinned a little bit of complacency, if you can say so. On 23 March, I think it was, he presented a report from his post of MEP at the UN, a report on the inequality of rural women in the world and, indeed, a report that can highlight the problems that exist. Indeed, he proudly showed it in his hand, and repeated it on several occasions, how well he was working in the Basque Country on the subject and how innovative we are. We can sell a 4.0 statute, we can sell an R+D+i statute, we can sell what we do, but we can't sell what we don't do, and in this case, it's a law that's been in the drawer for almost three years, a law that's undeveloped. "Excuse me, but I have the right to be angry this time." We can sell something we do and that law we can advertise, but if we haven't put a euro on it, if we haven't budgeted it, of course, to some extent, we're not believing it – or that's what we think. In that interview, it was only necessary to tell Mrs Bilbao that there is a law, in fact, but that it has been stopped for three years. And he didn't have a budget. He just missed that to round up the interview. Anyway. We trust people, in another way of making politics, more transparent, a little more humble too, would benefit all of us. I'm going to say that agrarian women don't deserve that way of acting. No, they don't; they deserve just the opposite. And I'm going to say one thing that women wouldn't like, but that's it, they're the south of all the north: agrarian women have it much harder than any woman in any other area. I will now focus on the initial proposal, in principle very much thanking the groups for their willingness to reach an agreement, to find a common proposal, but our three points in the initial proposal were clear, they were super concise: we asked for a budget, we asked for a period of time and we asked for transitional measures, that the application of the statute did not entail any more bureaucratic obstacles, no more obstacles for the sector and did not involve making up for it in order to continue to receive aid. In that I will be the first to defend the opposite. We took out a medium, made it all our goal, and thank you. I'll read half-way, especially the exact points to tell you. In the first we speak again of timetables, with deadlines, with objectives and above all that are met. In the second, let these initiatives be put in place; we do not want to put the Rural Women's Commission in this way, the Government already has, it already has public structures to operate, so we believe that no more is needed. Information and training, we asked then, we ask now, that they do not impose any more obstacles, that women are in the management bodies do not suppose that the day-to-day and the work that the sector needs so much to move forward. That participation in the development of the statute should be guaranteed; it is that we cannot see it in any other way, if the former are not involved, it is of no use to us. Well, let's also urge the government to develop, disseminate – well, it's good – initiatives that contribute to selling a real image. I wouldn't say it's selling a real image, we're talking about moving reality out, something so simple. And last but not least, because to tell women what they have, to tell women what this status is. They have no idea, they don't know if they can split up tomorrow, what's going to happen to them if they stay widows... They have no idea. That is, please, a law that is almost three years old, we need to move it and we need to make it a fundamental right for them. Así que, well, thank you and we put him in the replication.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u86	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. The turn of the groups that issued the corrections: Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u87	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Elkarrekin We can celebrate that agreement that we have reached to improve the living conditions of women living and working in rural areas. Rural women make up one quarter of the world's population, but they suffer disproportionately from exclusion, violence, poverty and denial of their main human rights. Maternal mortality is higher in rural areas; it suffers from inequalities in working conditions, non-recognition of equal pay, subordination, and limited access to information and justice. They are often discriminated against in the right to access, use and control of common goods necessary for food production, productive resources such as land, water and credit, as well as in the instruments that enable them to develop and make visible their activity. Women have less land, worse quality and their tenure is insecure. Overall, they only own 2% of the land. In many countries, they suffer a multitude of discrimination because they are poor women and indigenous women, live in the countryside and rarely own land or other property, or because they are migrants and are subject to precarious work in food chains. It is essential to recognize the multiple, plural, diverse and intersectoral forms of violence and discrimination suffered by women working in rural areas. These statements are from the Via Campesina. In Euskadi, although with characteristics peculiar to our territory and socio-economic context, we do not escape that global reality. I will mention some of the data that can be found in the last quantitative study on women in the Basque rural world. 49% of Basque municipalities are rural and 59% of Basque territory is rural. However, only 4.7% of the total Basque population resides in rural areas. And if we disaggregate by sex, as well as rural media from other parts of the world, we find ourselves with a tendency for the population to be masculinized and aged. It is the result of a means in which women find it more difficult than men to develop their daily lives, to live in rural areas and also to live as farmers. Women living and working in the Basque countryside face obstacles and discrimination on the basis of gender and, in addition, overcome more barriers to access to law and services on a day-to-day basis than urban means. Let's see some brushstrokes of this reality. For example, what has to do with care, with this vital task for the sustainability of life, which has historically been imposed on women: 45 per cent of rural households live with dependent people; women spend up to 19 hours a week, a week, caring for children, children, older and dependent adults; the hours spent on domestic work are more than twice as much as men. Women in rural areas devote more than 50 hours, 50 hours a week to work, all work – the recognized, the unrecognized, the remunerated, the unremunerated, the visible, the invisible, etc. – more than 50 hours a week. In addition, 100% of women living on farms carry out their own agricultural or livestock work; 70% keep farm accounts, and 61% manage the farm. Go on and on. Women's working hours are endless. We want to mention briefly women who are not farmers but who develop their daily lives in rural areas. It is noted that 5.8% of women migrated from other countries are young people who, in many cases, arrive in these small localities, as in the urban environment, to work as domestic workers, for the care of dependent persons. A reality that we still have much to know. Women who present multiple risk factors for social exclusion because they are women in a sexist society, because of their national or ethnic origin, because they live in rural areas and because they exercise an unrecognized profession at all levels. Although several legal tools at the state and autonomous level are approved to date, aimed at the visibility and recognition of the work of women based in France. Without specific resources and programmes to develop the articulation of these laws, there are no substantial changes that we want to generate in the rural world. Faced with this reality, the status of agricultural women is a milestone, a very interesting norm, but one that runs the risk of becoming empty, as if it did not exist. We must provide it with concrete content, measures, actions and changes that are essential for it to really have a real impact on the rural environment and on women's lives. This agreement that we have reached can be an opportunity to remedy the silence and little impact that this statute has had on public policies and, consequently, on improving women's lives. It is an opportunity to start the path that should have started immediately after its approval and not now. A path of equality must necessarily be carried out from a feminist perspective, a path that promotes the co-responsibility and redistribution of productive and reproductive work on farms and the rural world, but, above all, we must look at whether the policy we develop is genuinely feminist and is taking into account the structural origins of inequality, whether it is intervening on them or whether we are putting in place the appropriate mechanisms to combat these causes, and therefore, what assessment we make of its implementation, what real impact it has on the situation of women and whether it is serving the objectives for which this tool was born. We believe that this status should not be a horizon, but rather a starting point for reversing historical injustice and, therefore, a dynamic tool subject to review and improvement. We have to bear in mind that the analyses promoted by peasant social movements, on the one hand, insist that the statute today, although it is a valid tool for the recognition and visibility of women's work in the field, its text may involve some contradictions or interpretation of the work within the agricultural holdings that can perpetuate the invisibility of women farmers, livestock farmers, food producers, etc. For example, on the very definition of basarritara woman baserris On the other hand, and closely related to the improvement of women's lives in rural areas, it is essential to open and extend a substantive debate that is being proposed by the social and peasant movements, we must incorporate into the policies the debate on the model of hegemonic agriculture and how it affects women. Within the framework of the statute and its development, visions such as that of food sovereignty and peasant feminism must be incorporated. These are fundamental axes for moving forward in substantive and real changes towards equality and justice in rural areas. In short, as we said before, we believe that this agreement is a great opportunity and opens the door for other necessary and urgent steps to be taken in this Parliament to intervene in rural areas. Let us be ambitious and have a high eye. Just a month ago, thousands of women in small and rural towns across the whole of Euskadi mobilized to demand change. It is an opportunity and it is the responsibility of this Parliament and all institutions to transform and improve the lives of women working and living in rural areas. And as Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has already said, on 8 March many women decided to strike and we went out to the streets to say loud and clear that automatic pilots are enough, that they are already lacking resources, that we need more real feminist policies in the forms and in the background and also in the resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Euscala Popular's representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Bildu's motion refers to the Act on the Status of Women Farmers. Both what is evident in the inquiry and what is later reflected in the motion is that the Government and the deputies are not complying with the law. It says the explanatory statement of this law: "This statute takes the rights of women farmers as a starting point and concrete the obligations of the administrations to ensure their effective exercise". We are in this, in which the administrations have not begun to assume the obligations required of them by this law, after two and a half years. We're in what, in the purpose of... That's where we stayed. It's urgent that we act. If we look, for example, at the age and sex data of the recipients of direct aid and rural development in the Basque Country, in 2016, of the 3,600 aid files 2,356 are for men, 1,278 are for women. But if we set ourselves by age, between 25 and 40 years the percentage of women is 24%. Really, if we set between 40 and 65, the percentage of women is 35. This gives us a very important fact and is that fewer women are becoming involved in farming. Not only does it happen with this activity, it also happens with other sectors that we will deal with another day, industry, FP... We also have to transmit rural women, first of all, to transmit that it is good, that there is nothing wrong with being a farmer, that it is an activity like any other and that we also need women in the countryside. From the People's Group, we voted in favour of this law because we fully share its objective of working and promoting the rights of women farmers, their professional recognition, their social esteem, the effective exercise of their professional, social, labour and fiscal rights, to be worked for and recognized by them. Because this law follows a mandate and recommendations of several European directives which concern the application of the principle of equal opportunities, equal treatment between men and women in the exercise of an autonomous activity in the field of social security, employment and recruitment. We share the points contained in the motion, but we wanted to highlight the research work carried out by Hazi, following the adoption of this law, in order to obtain a more accurate picture of the current reality of Basque farmers, to identify their needs and the degree of participation in all areas of agricultural activity. It seems to us that it is a concrete research study on Basque society, which is the one that is really providing us with the real data. There are many studies, but specifically in our field... because I believe that this is a research report which aims to establish a starting point for measuring the impact that the application of the statute will have on all aspects of the life of farmers. We must incorporate evaluation systems into all political action and this tool – we have no other – seems a good start. This research report has a lot of data and there is one that I especially liked. What do the farmers ask? Not what the PP asks, what the Basque Nationalist group asks, what Bildu asks. What do the farmers ask? This is what really has value and in which administrations must fix themselves. They ask to improve the image of the rural world. Indeed, that is going to help more people look fondly at agricultural activity and that is very important. They demand equal treatment in the urban world, they are not opponents but complementary. To highlight the unique characteristics of this sector (maintenance of the landscape, traditional land uses, food production, motor of the rural world, transmission of knowledge from generation to generation and, of course, as part of the country's gross domestic product, generating wealth, also economic activity). To make the urban world aware of the usefulness of the Basque agricultural sector, not only as a symbol of our past, but as an important part of our future. Transmit rural values to the urban (greater sociability and care between neighbours and neighbours; less loneliness in all ages, but mainly in the elderly; more ease for intergenerational encounters, with the resulting generation of wealth that this generates for both youth and childhood as well as for older people). Valuing older people as a source of knowledge: they are people who have knowledge that is not found in books or on the Internet; they have knowledge of experience and a job well done. What do women farmers ask of the administration? Reduce bureaucracy by launching a new agricultural exploitation. The beginnings are very complicated. Services like Gaztenet help, but they're not enough. Establishment of a special scheme on building for the agricultural sector, different treatment for buildings necessary for agricultural activity and for the rest. It is not about making cottages in the countryside, but about creating structures that facilitate agricultural work. How difficult it is to make an agricultural or livestock ship or the primary sector! Preserve the agricultural uses of the soil before there is nothing to preserve. In recruitment, recruitment aid, mainly for women, early terminations, job losses... Although this type of aid already exists, it seems that the way in which it is disseminated is not the most appropriate, since it does not reach the interested parties, suggesting the need for greater dissemination of the different recruitment options related to the sector. In marketing, put in value the local product, not only because of its food quality – which has it – but also because of the role of managing the landscape it develops. Advertising the local product, even if it does not have official quality labels. Establish a network of local markets for local producers. Do not charge for the post for sale establishment. Set up new schedules more in line with current customs. Create web pages to facilitate the encounter between those who produce and those who consume. In the services sector, what do women farmers ask for? Take them into account when designing rural policies, both at social and agricultural level. Basic medical services in rural municipalities, family medicine, pediatrics, gynaecology, improving public transport, recycling spaces in all rural municipalities. And what do they ask of the administrations? Within the European Union they require different environmental legislation. Fighting for a law for the whole of Europe, expanding the ecological products that are collected as such, not only collecting food products, including ornamentation, construction, textiles, etc. Recognize as a professional disease those produced by the use of pesticides. Basic legislation should be changed in line with the real needs of the market and the producer sector. And they definitely call on associations, trade unions, to set up new hours in trade union, political or social associations between men and women, so that gender is not a handful when taking part in them; to promote the participation of women in management bodies and working groups. The amendment that we have made in addition to the motion that has been tabled will highlight these issues, which are the requests that the farmers make to the Basque administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u91	President, ladies and gentlemen. Discrimination between men and women is prohibited in our society. It is prohibited legally, legally, but it does exist, and therefore it is clear that complementary measures must be taken, so that they can be reduced to the point of ending such discrimination. The issue we are dealing with today, which is an opportune one, because despite having extensive legislation for some decades now, despite having European directives, Spanish laws, Basque laws – the Statute for Women in Agriculture itself is a law – this discrimination still occurs and when it goes to data it is very clear. Mrs López de Ocariz has given some data; it is true that, for example, in the ownership of agricultural holdings the disproportion is enormous, and it may seem that this comes from the past, which is a legacy of the past, but it is not true, because in the new holdings young people's access to the ownership of agricultural holdings also retains the same proportion of discrimination between the number of women and the number of men accessing that ownership. Therefore, it is a problem of the past that drags on, but it is also a problem of the present and it is a problem of the future, to the extent that we do not put in the right means. I want to celebrate, especially today, this consensus, this agreement, for many reasons. The first, because it seems to me that Parliament is useful to the extent that it puts things into practice and resolves things, puts tasks and commits itself, and it is more self-demanding. In this Parliament too often there is too much debate to conclude anything, but simply to express each other's positions on the issues at hand. Today we are going to a much more pragmatic scenario. Today there is a political approach of total consensus, with objectives set, economic resources set, monitoring, monitoring and evaluation systems set out, i.e. today in this Parliament there is a useful political disposition towards society, in this case towards this particular sector of women farmers, and that is therefore an element of celebration. I think it is good that in this House, in which the absolute majority is wide-ranging, it should be noted above all in equality policies, and I say this, among other reasons, because a few weeks ago the Bureau of this Parliament had the opportunity to be at that meeting at the UN of rural women and girls, who proposed empowerment and which enabled us, not only to join the general work of those days, but also to have a lot of meetings with international associations dedicated to equality policies and also with many countries that were working there. And one of the things that stood out a lot when talking about participation – that in this protocol to talk at those meetings you always start with how you are there, what is the proportion of men and women in your Parliament... – many countries, even Europeans, were surprised that here we had an absolute majority of women, when in some other countries, with participations of 15, 20 and 25%, they consider that they are making enormous progress, and also in societies with democracies far longer than ours can be. Therefore, Euskadi is a territory in which there is added value in these effective equality policies, and as there are conditions for further progress, I think it is very interesting and very timely that we take one more step here today. That the laws that already generate the framework in which we have to work, are given these measures, that means, those resources that can make these policies come to fruition and that we can achieve this level of equality between men and women in this sector as in any other sector of society. Therefore, to hold the agreement, to hold the meeting, to hold it in consensus. Celebrate that we go to the concretion. That this Parliament takes on commitments that it will have to make after it has to respond to them. That Parliament calls on the government to take concrete action and it will have to respond to them. Because I believe that this is the fundamental objective, the raison d'être of politics, that we turn this capacity to make decisions into practical decisions and solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u92	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon to all. Today we've got an argument to discuss today about the sizes to go into the state of female farmers. This Chamber was unanimously accepted by the State of Women of Farmers in 2015. He is a pioneer of equipment, and his chief aim is to establish the equality of women and men in agriculture. The importance of women in the Eucadian country is irresistible. Still, they still suffer discrimination in the world. This state of things makes it possible to acknowledge the work that has been made in the shadow, and which they continue to do. And upon the basis of their rights, it is determined what public administrations ought to do, necessarily, that these rights are really established. The law raises the necessary measures, so that the equality of trade and opportunity may be between women and men in the sector, and, of course, the genus view. In the rural world, there is a debt to all women who have developed essential work for the maintenance of the primary sector from an economic, social, family, educational and knowledge transfer point of view. A hard historical task, which unfortunately has always been carried in the shadow. They have been responsible for domestic tasks, in addition to all the work carried out on agricultural holdings, from the tasks of the field, processing and marketing. Women are present throughout the process and are not recognized. Many of them have never been registered with Social Security, which makes retirement still the deepest discrimination. And we cannot forget that they have been the ones who, with their struggle, have on many occasions infected different generations to take charge of the farms, to move forward, to continue to innovate and improve the base that they inherited. This status that brings us here today is fundamental to the empowerment of women. It requires, inter alia, that in order to receive grants, the governing bodies should be equal. Thus, through positive actions, it allows better scores to be given to farms led by women or with shared ownership with men. And it was adopted unanimously, because this is a good rule that improves the situation of women workers, because we all understand that it is a reality that needs to be corrected, because it is clear that inequality exists and in the field has not been solved. And in that we are, in correcting errors, in making the statute a reality and allowing all women to have the same opportunities as men in the rural world. The figures announce a slight rise: 38.2% of farm owners are women, and the heads of farms are 35.5%. In other words, it has increased by 5.1% since 2013. This data is not enough, obviously. We must continue to increase the number of women holding farms, because that is the priority of this law, to promote their access. We must continue to encourage the recruitment of women in the sector, encourage the inclusion of young women and ensure their presence in decision-making bodies. But it must be a priority for all, also for men. These men have to share, delegate and trust the professional value of women. Obviously, we share that the development of this law is lagging behind, even Councilwoman Tapia acknowledged it in this very House when she was questioned about this matter. She herself has also stated on more than one occasion that the priority of ensuring compliance with the statute is the highest for the department she heads. He admitted it was late, yes, but they haven't been stopped. They have been gathering the necessary data from a very heterogeneous reality that needs studies. There are many women, from different places and in different circumstances, and with different jobs within the rural environment, and it is necessary to have that photograph of the concrete reality that exists in order, from there, to continue taking steps that measure the impact that the application of the statute will have on the lives of the farmers. As Mrs Tapia has explained, the monitoring committee establishing the statute has been set up and, through it, different lines of action have been developed and four working groups have been set up. The first will be responsible for updating and evaluating the register of shared ownership of farms; the second will promote the visibility of the status and ensure the balanced presence of women in decision-making bodies; a third group will assess the training needs of women working on farms; and the last group will review that the current legislation is gender-sensitive. And as far as the budget is concerned, he assured us that he will have what is necessary for all this and that it could be expanded even if it were necessary. You said, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, that the MEP from our group, Izaskun Bilbao, presented a report to the UN based on the status measures we are debating today. Indeed. And that pisses you off? What's the matter with you? Won't it make you more angry that it wasn't you who introduced him? I cannot understand how one woman criticizes another because she raises a reference status for us worldwide. Let me, but I don't understand your anger. But, come on, you know who gets angry has two evils. And we, of course, are very proud that it was our MEP Izaskun Bilbao who brought that status to the UN. And for our group it is very important that the statute be complied with, so we tabled an amendment with the Basque Socialists, which was also in line with which the EH Bildu group initially tabled. Finally, we have had an initiative among all groups that deepens the need to develop the statute, which is why we are here, and we agree. Without wanting to repeat too much, I will sum up the amendment, in which we ask the Basque Government to present a timetable with the objectives of implementing the statute and an annual report on the evaluation of the gender impact of that statute. We also call for financial support, as well as information and training for industry actors, to ensure that they meet legal needs. Of course, the participation of different actors and, in particular, that of women in the development of the statute should also be guaranteed. On the other hand, in this amendment we urge the Basque Government to draw up, disseminate and budget annually initiatives to help improve the image of women's activity in this sector. And we also include one final point, which for our group is essential for this status to take off, and it is its disclosure, as well as making known also the support and administrative support available to women farmers. We are therefore pleased with the agreement reached to continue the fight against discrimination, because dealing with it is a matter of social justice. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u95	Well, thank you again. I promised I wouldn't make a reply, but I can't stand it. So, I'm gonna do the replica as fast as I can to get us some food. Mrs Molina, I assure you that none of my ills are within this House. They're all out and pretty far away, so I have no problem taking ills off me. But I've been angry, it's true, when you sell something you don't have. But, well, that's it. I will end up in a positive tone: again thank all the groups for their work capacity, the capacity for consensus and also for closing differences... Then, of course, I thank you. And today I heard my partner say "celebration day." Indeed, but let us not fall into paternalism, because agricultural women, livestock women do not deserve it, and let them be the protagonists, what is good already! From Euskal Herria Bildu we demand three very concrete things: a feminist status, of course open to change, of course, but effective; we demand a statute with budget for the future, the only guarantee that it will be fulfilled, and we demand the participation of all actors in its development. With that, something so simple, we settle. And now I'm done. But I will end up proposing a challenge to you, in this House, the evils are one way but outside in real life, the evils are other. So I am going to propose that a delegation from this House take three farms, take three farms, three farms, three cottages, whatever you want, with women in charge, and let's go visit them, and we will see that the situation is real, that the serious situation we are talking about here today is true. It is the only time to empathize with them, to know what they are living and, in a way, to be able to represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u96	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together Podemos? Yes, Mrs. Arana, from there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u97	Nothing, I from here a little repeat the opportunity that we have with this initiative to start the way, one of many that we have to start so that women stop suffering inequalities in all the spaces that we live, transit and inhabit, and not continue with the autopilot and the drum and dish ads that so much like to some as other political formation, especially to one. That this path and all must be carried out from a feminist perspective yes or yes, promoting co-responsibility and redistribution of productive and reproductive work, and the need to reflect on another model of agriculture...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u98	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u99	... with a gender perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word. Mr Price mustn't speak. What about the local patriots? Yes, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u101	Yes, please leave the seat. Well, also insist that it is a good agreement, logically, and that it is right, that reality is that, that there is and that this status does not represent a person, obviously represents all women. I'm the first one because I'm a woman and I'm rural. So I congratulate myself on that too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. The discussion is over and we'll vote for EH Collect, together Podemos, Basque Popular, Eukal Sociialists and Eucobertarian rectification signed by the teams. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u103	It was unanimously accepted. So it's accepted to the half-correction. I interrupt the entire meeting until four o'clock. It was two and thirty-six in the afternoon. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u104	Let's start the fifth point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together about EITBn's eucharation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, the representative of the Podemos group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u105	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, counselors, congressmen, good afternoon. Our proposal today is simple and necessary and constructive. To invest in a natural reform production to promote Eusa. It seems to us that we should all agree, but, in spite of our efforts, we must say with regret that there will be no agreement. Dealing for what? Take a look, ETV will produce an attempt to learn to the cradle, directed to those who learn to the eucalyptus. A simple, capable proposition, and, as I have already observed, for the sake of euphora. They come forward to the proposal he proposed, but there's nothing to say about them in the correctings he introduced. To begin with, I would like to stress the importance of the media in the transmission of a country's culture and language. What I am saying may seem to be the finding of evidence, but it is not so if we analyze the data from the VI Euskadi Sociolinguistic Survey. As I was saying, VI. If we look at the Sociological Incsta, the use of the support of the young has left out of the formal sphere, it is lower and lower. I'd like to remark, last month, that here, in the monographic meeting around the Basque Age, our parliamentary group made a definite proposal-that is, the eighth proposition. And he said: "Eulegal Law asks you to sing 'Mork' to take the necessary measures for EIB to provide the active programming in teaching. ' This plan did not support the rest of the teams, so it did not go on. It was a pity for us, because we continue to think that EIB's fundamental train is to open up to the four winds. We continue to think that EIB's power is not exploiting, but we continue to think that even though young people watch less TV, we can change dynamics by doing things right. Let us assume, then, that language policy has still a long way of improving it, of course, by remarking what has been done. But the present social condition is quite different, and requires new and updated formulas. EIB took great care and commitment when the law was formed, for this law rendered the culture of Basque culture, and, above all, the principal cause of the vast eucalyptus. Today, it's true that some radio platforms have been able to echo among the young listeners, programming on informal language, or adapting their immediate presence to their reality. Well, then, congratulations on your work and all the professionals who make it possible. However, the situation in television channels is quite different, especially in ETB-1. The number of listeners so low, that this chain does not fulfil the object which the public service ought to secure, i.e. to encourage them to resist. And as I said, while the reality of television channels is different, specifically in EITB we note that audience levels are not sufficient to ensure the fulfilment of their public service mission with regard to the promotion of Basque. It must be borne in mind that broadcasting hours, and we have said this here more than once, are not a valid indicator, as we have repeated over and over again in this House. A zero hearing technician. Unfortunately, this happens during many of the hours of emission of ETB-1 and ETB-3. All this adds up to nothing in favour of the Basque. This demands, with all humility, a reflection, and a proper correctitation. It is true that some attempts produced have been successful among the young, and not among so young. For instance, we've got it, let's go. But we think we need to ask our public television more, something more. It's not much to ask them to follow the law, is it? And as I said, within the framework of this public service mission of ETB, ETB has to ensure the formative and educational dimension of its programming, which at present does not do enough. I have a proposition for you. I mean: What do you think of El Conquis? I'd like to highlight here the personal productions of the ETV that have been used to promote and expand. Apart from being a large number of spectators, they created employment in the visual sector, and even a cultured wealth. Who doesn't remember Two and One lord and lord Martin Goenkale? And in relation to the teaching of Basque, we can remember Bai Horixe! Down with the Horixe! In different contexts, but all those series in the ETV I've googled: Two and one, lord and master, Martin, Goenkale. This example of this practice, this formula still continues to exist. Of course, we should adapt to modern sociological culture and linguistic needs. But there's no doubt about it. We have good professionals. Now, our wager should be to invest and reform for euchara and euchara. And I'm sorry, but we clearly miss despair and ideas. To be bold in designing programming is not incompatible with the quality or educational objective mentioned. Moreover, it should be a condition of any public medium of communication aimed at the cultural formation of citizens, something that is not incompatible with attractive formats linked to leisure, such as musical programs or those related to realities close to young audiences. Of course, considering who is directed to, and who is directed to, educational ends and quality must preponderate, especially in the programming of youth. It's the role of our public media to give and to spread culture to the people. Anyway, that's not indistinguishable to make fun attractive, to produce music programs or to approach the reality of the young audience. And this is exactly what we wish to proclaim-a quantum leap. Just a little imagination. So, as I said at first, we tried to make a deal. It can't be. We hope to keep talking, to reflect, and to get the ETV we all need. And, of course, the cultural goal I've discussed to open this pedagogic and educational goal. It's for the Basque.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Aguirre is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari. I would like to begin this speech by speaking in a correct Spanish, even if it seems a contradiction that it is precisely the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu who, precisely, speaks of EITB and Basquera in Spanish. But I did not think of any better way to express the contradiction which also implies that a Basque public radio-television, which was created for the promotion of Basque and Basque culture, devotes most of its efforts to promoting and promoting Spanish-language channels. Because it is a contradiction that the eucalyco chains should not be primary, not be the most trusted, the most careful, the dearest, the most reference. We can't protect it in Spanish by pushing Spanish channels to the prejudice of the eucharists, much less because at the present time, in 2018, the world has changed and the world of the Basques has changed. And news isn't always bad. You've given some facts, Mrs. Wide, I'll give you some more. When ETV was founded, say, half of the Basque Country population, no, not half sorry, but only one-third could understand its eucalyptus. At the present day, however, EAE (Bazana, Aragban, and Gipusian) three-thirds understand escay, and more than half of the Euscalum as a whole. Education has contributed to it, and the change of mentality, especially the efforts of the people, and of course even EIB has contributed to it. It would not be fair not to acknowledge the work EITB has done for all these years, because it has been a great one: he has prepared the euphorium for entertainment, as others have shown that it was useful for engineering or medicine. EIB has created his own language for entertainment, to announce news, to sport, to tell the weather, the ARGen people who learned that it's a great reform, isn't it? And, for instance, this always reminds me of a member of Sestacos: he always said that he had learned the dragon ball with euphoria. That's what it was and that's got to be ETV. This magic has been acquired by the great labour, the illusion, and the passion of many professionals. EIB can't lose that magic and we can't let it go with this magic either. We say, therefore, that from love, because we love ETB, it cannot continue with the same parameters 35 years ago, nor continue the same way. It must be adjusted until it has changed so quickly into the world, and it has become adapted to the technology of the light-sightedness in which it changes: EITB can't miss the train on the Internet. And above all, the audience cannot continue to lose. Because otherwise he would lose the reason or reason of his being. We know it's not easy work, TVs all over the world are losing together with digitalization, and therefore EITB will have to change its strategy, adapt all its machinery to its new seasons. A talent outside, Grit High, who used to work at the first BBC, and who now is a Sky Musician strategy director, says we have to be a fanist. According to him, the Basque People are three or four years behind the most advanced countries in Europe, on television and, unfortunately, in many other areas, but we can make this mistake a choice. Let us take advantage to see what they are doing in those countries of Europe, and learn from them, to be opportunists, but to look at Europe, and not to the Casposian example of Spain. Let us maintain our tradition, but we must also take risks, if we are brave. We have an advantage, especially in ETV-1 we have nothing to lose. Because we need another EIB before it's too late, we have to change the pattern. I think we're all on that deal, and that's why we're working on the EIB team, though we all go a little slower than we'd like. The initiative you've been introduced by the Podemus to make an attempt to show ETB, we don't think it's bothering him about the work we're doing on the team, but, well, it can be an additional thing. We call it well to try to teach EIBn to resist, though we know that this is not enough. We who seek to learn another language, know what we seek in the visible ones: We want to have entertainments, attractions, and possible subwritten language; and we believe that the ETV must invest it in it, if the new audience wants to attract it to the world of the eucaïe. But that's what we think it's meant to be part of a whole plan. As you say, it's a pity there's not a complete agreement today. We may well call simple contributions, but we believe that we ought to have more ambition, and that all these undertakings are to be introduced into a general plan. We think EIB deserves it, so do we people. And this or we all do, or we don't do this. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u109	Thank you, ma'am. The Socialist team shares the thought that he's going on this discussion together in Pomos' proposition. And we also understand that all the parliamentary groups in this Chamber are the same and general, because we all think that we all agree with its function with the great commitment and responsibility, as the agent of culture, and especially our language, to the eucalyptus. From the Socialist Group, EITB will find an educational dimension, which we feel involved in its programming, and the audience, when it is time to face the savage competition, may be brave, but in order that he may maintain his education compatible programming, the most important in his respect as a public service. What indicates that something is a good public organization and a quality, is, above all, its television and radio offer, especially for social information and education. The concern and reflection that we are dealing with today in plenary and our proposals, the various proposals, and the Basque Socialists also included them three years ago in the EITB reform proposal document, we made it public, I have spoken about it repeatedly. Then, three years ago, we said that the socio-linguistic data, with an upward and positive evolution in the knowledge-understanding of the Basque language, were exactly the opposite of the one given in the audience of the television channels exclusively in the Basque language. And we were saying, I think, that literally, and we believe, and we understand that that problem and that concern persists today. We have to find the reasons, obviously, and find the solutions to a fact that is obvious and that we all know, that offering euskera programs on ETB, then these are not supported by the audience. Here we can insist on speeches, more or less grandiose affirming everyone, all that must be attended to the socio-linguistic reality, be a differentiated offer, we can do it, we can continue to do it, we must do it, but if the audience does not accompany, if the audience does not accompany, we will have to stop, reflect and see what we are doing wrong. Because given that there is a budget earmarked, and that it is increased every year, we cannot continue in the same situation, making the same programs that are not supported by the audience. And this is a debate that affects the knowledge of the Basque language, the problem that the proposer group, Elkarrekin Podemos, specifically spoke about in the operative part of its non-legislative proposal, but that affects in a much more global way what was said in the justification of the non-legislative proposal, which spoke about the role, the work of promoting the Basque language and the Basque culture of Basque Radio and Television. We believe that this is precisely what it is about and that that is why we understood that, aside from what has been done and finally said in the compromise, that concrete action can be taken in programming, it is a debate that must be affected, must be included and must be taken into account in the comprehensive reform presentation, while concrete action is being taken, as has also been reflected in the compromise amendment that has been signed and presented by the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Group. Because if the main objective of EITB, of all the TV channels of EITB, also of ETB-1, and of Basque public radios, is to be a better public service, which we are trying to do, discuss and achieve in that presentation, if that is its objective, that objective must be met by being supported by the majority of Basque citizens, who cannot do it otherwise, which is to give it an audience. Therefore, if we improve that public service, we improve the functions of that public service, which is the promotion of Basque and our country's culture, we will always do so much better, if that public service, which we pay for all Basques and Basques in addition, through budgets, is supported by the audience. There are still obvious difficulties, they have been cited in one way or another by the people who have preceded me in the use of the word, of the spokesmen, and it will also be said later. The reasons for the lack of support of ETB-1 – a question that does not happen, for example, with the radio in Basque, and we have Euskadi Gaztea, Euskal Irratia... , which have a different operation – can be several and can be multiple, but it is also true that there are some program offerings that have also worked, counted, but have also worked on ETB-1. However, we understand that the responsibility of a Parliament and political forces, of the political parties that we are in this Parliament, is not to design the programming of EITB or to do the programmes of EITB. We understand that we can pronounce ourselves, we can agree, we can talk about how this EITB should be and how it should fulfil those functions of the public service that it has entrusted, and, among them, those expressly mentioned in this proposal not of law, but television programmers... It is better that, once we clarify this debate about improving the public service and how to better carry out its functions, the entity's professionals, the people who are trained to carry out that programming, do so. I do not know whether it seems to me that Parliament is the right place to do programmes or to say how much programming it has to be devoted to one thing or another. For that I believe that, frankly, there are no parliamentary chambers, although we may also be many of the people who are trained here, I do not, but I suppose there will be people who will be able to do so. That is why we said that although we share the concern, above all, the justification for the non-law proposal, we were short of the proposal, we were short of the proposal, because of the justification we understood that much broader action could be taken, which would serve in this comprehensive reform, which we believe is necessary for the improvement of Basque Public Radio and Television as a public service and, therefore, fulfilling those objectives which are in the law, and, among them, the promotion of Basque and the country's culture. And also at the same time, why not, particular and concrete actions can be carried out. Some of these we have tried to translate with greater or lesser accuracy into the compromise amendment, because it is true that perhaps the proposal made by the proposing group is not fully embodied, but it has been tried to include it, or in the spirit of the people we have negotiated was to include it. Just as other concrete actions can be done, as has already been done. I remember now when he changed, what he mentioned on several occasions, the ball game and put on the championship of betsolaris We understand that when Basque citizenship demands more information, for example, in these extraordinary events, the one in Basque, because they are also punctual decisions, it can be a program, it can be the coverage of extraordinary events that demand more information like that. Or it may be the ones I've cited before changing at a given time the ball programming for the betsolaris championship that they can do. But is that a function of a Parliament? I believe that Parliament's role is to seek reform and, also, through the Committee on Control, to seek adequate supervision of what EITB's leadership is doing with these aims of promoting Basque culture and Basque euskera and, through that, to try to achieve them. But making programs I don't think it's going to be enough to achieve that goal, and frankly I don't know if we're capable of doing that. I will no longer tell you what I think if we are able to agree here in the House on how to make a program on Basque Public Radio and Television or on any other public radio and television, because there are also others and private. That was the will, simply, not to have supported that proposal and to have made a much more comprehensive proposal in which, in fact, at least for my part, we were also trying to take the concrete contributions of the EH Bildu group, and also that of the proposing group, which has brought a fair and necessary debate, although, in our view, it was short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Basque patriots. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u111	Yes, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoons to all of us. I had my first participation in this tribe a year ago as a member of the legislature, and then the theme was EIB. So I read to you a small part of the original EIB law, and today, with your permission, I will do the same, because the more I read the 82th law, the more solid I see. He only has 88 articles, but they really are interesting. At the door he says: "... The fundamental criterion of the popular service is, that the social conventions which are capable of this law are formed, as the first means of handing the euphonys and politics of the community, and of the establishment of education and of euscal culture in relation to the establishment and propagation of our method of cooperation, in particular consideration of the promotion and propagation of the support." And in the second part, the rule and use of the whole, &c. in the section, he says in the letter h: "The Suspent of Cultural and Euscan, for the purposes of the use of the Euscha, establish fundamental structures, considering that the balance of radio-temporary performances in the autonomy association of allomenia." So, as we see, the law was essential to euca for this parliament, and now, as it is, it is also essential. Hence, a year ago, in the discussion I have mentioned in 2017, we agreed to form a form of ponciation in order to develop the reforms of the whole of EIB, and to adapt the offer to the new social reality, as to new changes and uses of technology. And we started to work in power, with difficulty, but we're at work, and we're going to have five block-blocks to discuss in this joint, and these five blocks are as follows: public services, governors, organizations, and finances, language abnormalization and genre view. We see, then, how important we are to this subject. In this context, Podemos has brought with him another proposal of justice, in which he proposes that we set up a program for learning euccanation in EIB, 2018, as was said in his own time, Yes! However, as we have seen the contributions of other groups, we have tried to agree, because we believe in the value of consent, and have come to a middle course, EH Collect, Party Socialists, and us. I'd like to thank Jasone Aguirre and Raphael to make an agreement with Mrs. Romero's position, and Pililar's, though at last we didn't make any agreement, but we were close at hand, and I'm sure, if we leave it aside, we have the best instrument to work honestly. I mean: Power. There is EIB working for the cradle from the start I want to thank for the job of the professionals at the time of the year Hadad; today he has signed some treaties (e.g.: With HABE and AEKE, "to leave the contents to do dichotic units and help them in euca teaching." In the middle, we ask that the director of EIB and the Language should advance the necessary steps in the combination for the proper production of programmes for all the public, which will be directed to the instruction, knowledge, and promotion, which is the most suitable for emission. EIB is not an isolated medium. There are several actors who work around the Euskar, and it seems to us proper that the criteria should come from non-committude in this area, or be connected with the meaning. For instance, the Euskara is in progress this year, and in December 2017 the eucalycators were also introduced, the Euscara Age of Strasa Age, the first mentioned here.... These, on the other hand, make a frame, and the initiatives made in EIB must be considered inside that strategic frame. So I'll finish it the way it was last March. We have a power to work and work, so let's get to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I believe that the first question we have to raise, because it has also been mentioned here today, and it has been mentioned on other occasions, is whether the very existence of the paper already prevents or is incompatible with the debate on these types of proposals. We understand, from our group, that no. We would like to point out that, of course, the existence of a presentation on the comprehensive reform of EITB does influence some of the proposals to be discussed and put forward in this plenary. For example, initiatives have been put forward to reform the Law on the Establishment of the Entity, referring to issues such as the Board of Directors, which our group itself has considered should not be considered because there is a presentation precisely for this comprehensive reform of the EITB and because, therefore, if it had been adopted, we would find two presentations, one that speaks of this comprehensive reform and another that refers to the law. Therefore, when such proposals are cross-cutting, with general modifications, we do believe that their implementation could clash with the presentation and that, in that case, they should be discussed there. But there are other initiatives, such as the one that the Podemos group has brought here today, much more concrete, much more specific, whose approach is, in our opinion, perfectly compatible with the existence of a paper, because we believe that this existence, the existence of that paper, cannot be an instrument for cutting down debates, for preventing debates, because that could lead us to the temptation that when one does not want to debate on a particular matter, we create a paper and, automatically, those issues disappear from this plenary. We believe that the highest body of debate and decision in Euskadi is this, the plenary of this House, and we believe that debates and transparency cannot be stolen from this plenary. I have already said this and I insist, there are issues which in themselves have to do with the purpose of the presentation, with the comprehensive reform of EITB, and which, of course, should be brought back there, but other issues, and this is an example of them, which are much more specific, which, in our view, simply enrich that work of EITB, can perfectly be raised, debated and voted without affecting the existence or the essence of the presentation itself. Secondly, I shall turn to the proposal itself. As noted in the initiative, the media play a very important role in the transmission of a culture and a language of their own. Moreover, that role of EITB – in the amendment originally tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, it was suggested that we would have to see what the role of EITB is in the transmission of Basque culture and Basque – should not be put forward; as has been said here, it appears both in the programme contract signed by the Basque Government and the Basque Government as well as in the Strategic Plan of EITB. As a public service that is our public radio and television, they must fulfill a mission and promote the use of Basque. Moreover, the programme contract 2016-2019, which defines the contents of the public service mission assigned to EITB, sets out the description of the public service offered by EITB, the commitments it undertakes for its provision, activities and objectives and societies, establishing the counterpart of the Basque Government. And the promotion of euskera and an increasingly bilingual society is one of the missions assigned to it to fulfill EITB. "It will promote – according to this contract – the dissemination of contents, creations and activities elaborated and developed in Basque in the various social fields; it will reflect in their broadcasts the bilingual social reality, and it will promote the promotion of bilingualism as a social element of equity, cohesion and modernity". For its part, as it said, in the strategic plan, in one of its strategic lines, specifically in the 3rd, it was proposed to strengthen the hearing in EITB's Basque and to this end it is expressly said that it will "actively seek the encounter with the Euskaldun audience Then, the role that EITB must play in the teaching, knowledge and dissemination of the euskera is already clear, it is already reflected in both the Law on the Creation of the Entity and the Strategic Plan. What is at stake is to carry out actions that make the fulfilment of that role effective. Indeed, as has been said here, actions of 2018 and adapted to 2018. Our group has always defended the importance of EITB as a means in Basque, as a mission to spread the Basque, to entertain in Basque, to inform in Basque... It is true that, as the initiative says, media such as radio in Basque is increasingly heard by younger people, in a context in which younger and younger people are Basques. We find that the ETB-1, which should be the entity's flagship ship, being the most important vehicle in Basque, however, is the poor sister: it has a very low audience, which has not reached 2% last year. For example, recently, Monday 9 April, 1.3%; Sunday 8 reached 4%, but do you know why? By Meza Santua When it became apparent in this House that this mission was being carried out, it became clear that this was the indicator used for the broadcast in Basque. But we believe that this measurement is neither correct nor sufficient. It cannot be said that a target has been met simply by taking into account the hours issued, without any further criteria. We have pointed out on many occasions that the hearings cannot be the only indicator to take into account, that the public service character of the entity has to be considered, but it is evident that a reflection of the interest of the citizen, that it is an attractive television, that it actually fulfills the dissemination and promotion of the Basque language... It's the audience. It's an indication. At a time when society is becoming more and more Basque, however, we see that there is a lesser interest of this society in watching television in Basque. It is true, and we recognize it, that young people have different ways of watching television, of accessing the media, but it is also true that attractive programmes, programmes of their own that can attract the Basque public, programmes, as I say, in attractive formats, close to the reality of young people. And I believe that we cannot say from this House what specific programme it has to do, but rather inspire or say what programmes we believe should be issued. In the year 2010 – I am going to use this which so much likes now of "open quotes" – a parliamentarian who is today in this House, who at the time was in opposition, said about the EITB Directorate: "For more than a year now the then new EITB Directorate has presented itself in society with the priority objective of relaunching the chain in Basque ETB-1. They then argued that the contents did not respond well to the needs of the Basque population, that the chain required to strengthen its programming, both entertainment and information." I go on to say: "Now on the Board of Directors we are given a report to promote a reflection on the future of ETB-1. The problem is that a long year has passed, in which the chain has not been relaunched; on the contrary, it has been losing audience month by month. The problem is that there have been no new contests, neither entertainment nor information, that have succeeded in attracting the interest of the spectators. The problem is that Miramón's program production center is empty of content." This was said in 2010. Now that parliamentarian is in one of the groups that supports the Government, but the words he said can be applied perfectly to this direction. And this leadership has not been for a year, as when that parliamentarian spoke, no; it has been more than five. And far from improving, the situation has worsened compared to 2010. That is why we believe that it is time to turn to the facts and we believe that concrete proposals, such as the one brought here today by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, can be debated and fully supported. That is why we are going to support the original initiative; that is why we are not submitting an amendment. He's not going out. We will also support the compromise amendment because, in any case, we believe it should be discussed and approved here, but it is better than nothing, and we will put it in the paper. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u114	Thank you, Miss Llanos. If we go to the answers turn, then together Podemos shouldn't speak a word. Gather EH, Mrs. Aguirre? I'm not going to have a word to say. Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u115	Only because of the issue of creating a paper or a working group to delay things. It is not always created... and, moreover, this paper is created on the proposal of the People's Party, that of comprehensive reform. Therefore, it does not always want to be delayed. In addition, I believe, I say again, that we have compatible what can be partially acted on, that we can work in this Parliament, not doing programmes, in my opinion, because it is not our job, nor sending what should be done, but improving our television and public radio, as a public service that it is, and doing so in a much more global way in the presentation. But not to delay, because besides, I wouldn't accuse you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Oregie must not speak, and Llanos must. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u117	Just for answering. I hadn't accused you of that at all. Clearly, the need for the EITB Comprehensive Reform Paper is clear. In fact, we proposed the creation of that paper. But I have not said to delay, what I have said is that what is not possible is to use the paper as an alibi to prevent or not to discuss certain matters in plenary. I believe that it is true that there are issues, and we have said so ourselves, that must be referred back to the presentation, but there are issues such as these that are absolutely concrete that are perfectly, as I say, susceptible to vote and debate in this House. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u118	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the dispute has ended, we shall first vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 20; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u119	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for EH Collect, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors signed by the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 61; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u120	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The sixth point in the theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula team, on the fourth line of the Bilbo subway. Discipline and final resolution. The propos' turn is Mrs. Llanos' turn to present and defend the initiative. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, everyone. Lehendakari... Well, I don't promise to be brief because I'm sure I won't be, and then, if I don't, they're gonna accuse me of missing my word. Last March 2nd I was asking Mrs Tapia in this House about line 4 of the Bilbao metro and I want to start by saying, what has this government boasted of, above all, the Basque Nationalist Party in this government and the previous one? If it's the government of people. Well, what do you see here? People, right? Neighbors in the neighbourhoods of Rekalde, Iturrigorri, Peñascal, because line 4 affects that, people, specifically 70,000 neighbors; neighbours who have been repeatedly promised an infrastructure that never arrives, which never seems to be a priority. The PNV, one of the parties that supports this government, has talked a lot about listening to the citizenry, because, well, you have to ask them whether during all this time you have really listened to the citizenry, the citizens, the neighbours of Rekalde, or, as they consider themselves, they are second-rate neighbors, who can always be left waiting and waiting, because they have been 10 years, 10 years, since this line was projected. I know the timeline exposed him in the interpellation, but it is important to repeat it so that they can see the patience these neighbors have had since they were promised that the line would exist. Because in January 2008 it was when the route of line 4 of the Bilbao metro between Moyua and Rekalde was made public, meeting the neighboring demands, that what they demanded was that line 3 reach their neighborhood. June 2009. The tram line that was designed to reach Rekalde is removed and this future line is already being studied. The then vice-counsel of Transports, Mr. Gasco, stated that the works would begin at the end of 2012, and Mr. Arriola, that their opening would be by 2016, and announce that the garages would be located in Rekalde. Year 2011. The preliminary draft of the new line was approved and it was clear that the implementation would last 47 months. End of 2014, with the PNV already at the head of the Executive: first braking. It is said that Rekalde's neighbours are not a priority, and I am going to quote Mrs Oregi again, as I did in the inquiry, that being the advisor of the branch said that neither in 2015 had left, but that neither in 2016 nor 2017 would there be because there were other more priority projects. September 2015. Since the Bizkaia District Council, through Mr Reyes, Transport Advisor, when asked about this infrastructure by our spokesman at the General Councils, it is pointed out that "no", that line 4 is not stopped and that the drafting of the constructive project of this line corresponding to the Moyua stretch would be tendered in November of that year, but it is unfortunate that Mr Reyes's will was not accompanied by facts and this was not done. Perhaps, I do not know if for the Chamber, but, of course, for the Government it seems that they are not a priority. Last year's February. Speakers from the infrastructure department reiterate that Bilbao is not a priority and announce that until 2020, except for administrative procedures, nothing. That is true, the groups supporting the Government are presenting an amendment, on which we have then reached a compromise, which we are very happy about, but they are presenting an amendment already talking about 2019. Is it because it's election campaign 2019? No, I'm sure not. Some neighbors think so, don't they? Because they know what Rekalde's neighbors usually say. They call line 4 "the Guadiana" because it appears and disappears: it appears in electoral campaign and disappears in inter-campaign periods. In the electoral campaigns the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party pull this line, also from Galdakao line 5, and then the stake appears on the metro lines, the commitment to sustainability, is carried out in the electoral programs, are reflected in the agreements, but then they do not just see the light. Also the Socialist Party, in 2014, by the mouth of the mayor's candidate, Mr. Gil, said that the socialists will again ask for line 4 of the metro, that it be a reality to unite Rekalde with the metro of the city, and bet on the future growth of Bilbao, centered on the high neighborhoods. And we absolutely agree with Mr Gil's words. What happens is that the neighbors in these neighborhoods don't feel like the protagonists. What they feel, is the forgotten, the great forgotten, because, when the time comes for political and economic commitment, they feel that they are always the last of the queue, that when it is necessary to transform into political decisions and economic figures that project, the bet on that line, the bet on this neighborhood of Bilbao, that bet remains in pure slogan. And they don't deserve it. It can't be an electoral resource. Rekalde's neighbours cannot be reduced to an electoral resource, an electoral promise or a slogan. For this reason, we believed that it is time to take action, it is time for commitments to go beyond planning and reflection, which is the time for actions involving the execution of works, infrastructures, in which this commitment to sustainability is placed. Decisions must be taken that demonstrate that this line is a priority, and accompanied by budgetary means. We have said this on other occasions: when it is claimed by the Basque Nationalist Party, or by the Basque Government, infrastructure in Madrid, it has hardly mattered whether these were exercises in which there were economic difficulties or that there were, at the time, budgetary constraints. If those commitments were not reflected in items, it was said that they did not exist, it was said that Euskadi was not a priority. It has not been possible to say why, even in the worst moments of budgetary tightening, the Spanish Government has always opted for Euskadi. Well, it is necessary that the Basque Government and the Parliament, because this line is half done, also engage with Bizkaia, with Bilbao, with the district of Rekalde. Because it is not possible to be thinking always, it is not possible to be thinking always, it is not possible a continuous approach of which transport infrastructures are the most suitable, which are the most efficient to give the best possible service, because then we will never reach the destination point. In the interpellation I was answered by the adviser that the Bizkaia Mobility Authority was the one that had to analyze how the transport as a whole was and accused me that it was that I did not like the Mobility Authority. And it's not about whether I like it or not, it's not about that. What is at stake is that the Mobility Authority is not used to dilate continuously, to kick forward. The amendment originally tabled referred to it; then the compromise amendment disappears. The truth is that we have no greater problem with the Mobility Authority – that approach that had to be done in Bizkaia, which does so is the Mobility Authority, disappeared, and the only thing we have always said is that the work of that Authority cannot be used to dilate, as an element of delay. Because to this group what we think... I've said that on other occasions, haven't I?: as we do not have, as it is not a priority, as we do not want to commit ourselves economically..., we create the Authority of Mobility and we are rethinking everything, and in the meantime, time is passing. And in June of last year, this Authority already announced the drafting of the strategic public transport plan, in which it would obtain that current picture of the sector and in which those master lines of instructions for the next decade would be determined. These papers were approved in June of last year and, for example, one of the lines that arose, which had to be fixed in the plan, was precisely this: whether to build more metro lines or not. What is the conclusion that we have reached? Of course, if we have to wait for the Mobility Authority to decide again whether or not line 4 has to be built, then it is not that we are at the party point. As I said in the interpellation, we are worse than at the party point, because at the starting point at least we were clear that line 4 was necessary. Now we have to wait for that strategic plan to say to see if it is necessary or not. I think it's necessary. We believe that line 4 is necessary; it is something that has been decided for a long time and remains absolutely in force, and that what cannot be done is to extend further the commitment to this metro line, because, as I said, 10 years ago we saw the need for this line, the neighbours and the institutions raised the need for this line. It is true that it is now said that other alternatives to transport are going to be proposed, precisely to remove cars from roads, but those alternatives have to be attractive, they have to be attractive, because if they are not to remove cars from roads and, of course, the metro, which not only connects Rekalde's neighbours with the centre of Bilbao but with the rest of Bizkaia, which absolutely vertebrae the city and the historical territory, is one of the most attractive means and they will really manage to make a sustainable transport, a sustainable city, that removes cars from it. We, as I say, tabled this motion and supported it in an amendment which we tabled to this year's budgets, an amendment which we knew was not enough, but which was essentially intended to place on the agenda of the Basque Government the stake on this line 4 of the metro. What we were asking for was a commitment. And the truth is, we have to be happy. We must welcome the amendment that we have reached, because that amendment, which has not been reached in other institutions where this issue has been raised, is a step forward and represents a compromise, a compromise that we hope the Government will fulfil. It involves a commitment for this year, to complete the information study, and a commitment for 2019, in whose budgets there will be an economic allocation sufficient to carry out the constructive project. Because the truth is that – I said it in the interpellation and I want to repeat it here now – I believe that to Rekalde's neighbors what they cannot be accused of is not being conformist, because the truth is that they conformed exclusively with what we were presenting, with which the constructive project was made. At first, they proposed that a timetable be made, that when the works were to be started, when they were to be completed... Now what they are asking for is that minimum commitment that the constructive project of the Moyua-Rekalde tranche be carried out, because it is true that the Matiko-Moyua tranche will be presented shortly because it has already been tendered. With this, I believe that Rekalde's neighbours have been absolutely patient, they have been absolutely reasonable, because they agree with what we are going to approve here today, and I believe that they are, of course, complying with a compromise that I believe is not difficult to adopt at all. That is why I, as I said, am extremely pleased that we have reached this agreement in which we urge the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Transport Consortium to conclude this line 4 information study throughout 2018, guaranteeing a participatory process, which I believe will be done precisely, and is already being done, because they are very committed neighbours and they have spoken, I think, that with all the institutions... And that amendment also states that in the 2019 budget itself there is an adequate financial allocation for the implementation of that constructive project. I think that today is taking a step forward, I think this commitment is good for our institutions, it is good for the neighbours. I am grateful that we have been able to reach this agreement and, as the neighbors said when I was accompanying them, "Line 4 of the subway, now!".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u122	Thank you, Miss Llanos. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Mrs. Ugarte, you represent the EH team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u123	Well, good evening, everybody. I will make it very short, for it is agreed on this point between all parties, and therefore, well, it is to be rejoiced. My dear Llanos explained all that has to be explained, what evolution has been, what difficulties have been, and I have not much more to add. What I mean is, at last, that we know it's very expensive to do these infrastructurees, and that building projects are very expensive, and that we don't have to tell you what to do, to execute them. They are very expensive projects, and they carry very high percentages of the budgets of different institutions. And so I always say that before we make a infrastructure, we must think very well, and imagine very well what prioritys are, don't we? and we must always consider what coste-beficion is in this case. In this sense, they have been sufficiently marginal from the investments of institutions, and we thought, looking at social privilege, it was essential to give the preference to this L-4 line in front of others. And it's true that we were worried about Mrs. Tapia's extension of L-3, moving to La Paloma, priority, etc. And there was a certain temptation to throw the ball back and throw it away for years. Then, seeing that on the one hand, on the other hand, there is serious commitment, and most of all to the computer-based computer project, and then to the computer-based project, it's going to be important, a budget division, because it's a matter of political importance, but we all know that the practical political translation of political importance is to be taken in the budget, isn't it? And then what we see is that what's done today's correction is that the construction project will be in the budget of 2019, the first phase. Further, what we call "referring correction" has been taken up, that is to say, by a process of participation, because, as has been explained by Mrs. Llanos, these neighbours are very active and eager to participate in. And we believe, moreover, that when great infrastructure is made of this kind, when great investments are made, the intervention of the citizens is a necessary element. We see that it has also been lifted, and therefore it is enough to satisfy us. This computer studio has to be done. What the stroke will be, what technical difficulties, alternatives, and so on. Check them out in 2018 and 2019, we've already got a detailed division of money for the constructive project, which is already done for 2019. Well, it's good news. So for today, happiness to all the teams and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. Well, I think it's the day of happiness, especially because we've had a chance to get to a large understanding. Today, through this agreement, we have succeeded in pushing the fourth line a little longer, which, I think, is most fortunate, especially for all the inhabitants of the Rhine and for all the rallyers of the Rhine. We have always conceived the metro, in this case any urban railway infrastructure, as a vital element for the economic and sustainable development of Bilbao, in this case. We understand that it is a qualitative leap in sustainability, in terms of communication, in terms of social cohesion, in terms of the very vertebration of the city, and we have understood this and we have driven it from our different responsibilities of government. We understand that in this particular case, and in the specific case of line 4 of the Bilbao metro, it can be an element that contributes and much more to the social cohesion of the villa of Bilbao because, after all, it will allow, not only a new link, a much more comfortable transport, much more sustainable, much more accessible for the citizens, for the inhabitants of the Rekalde neighborhood with the center, but, beyond that, I believe it will allow better communication, not only from the Bilbao neighborhoods with the center of the city, but between the neighborhoods of Bilbao itself. We understand that it is a clearly sustainable means of communication; therefore, as far as environmental sustainability is concerned, we also understand that it is a firm bet, an interesting bet and, as I said, it is a public transport that we believe is tremendously accessible to all citizens. In addition, it has greater benefits, to the extent that it does, and the data show this, and there are data in the city of Bilbao itself that corroborate it, which significantly banishes the use of the private vehicle and, beyond that, allows, even, the development, urban improvement of the cities. Therefore, we Basque Socialists have always had it very clear and have made a decided bet for the extension of metro lines to the different neighborhoods of the city. It was not to be less about this line 4 of the metro, which, mainly, as I said, is a vertebrate bet, it is a qualitative leap in the mobility of the city of Bilbao, especially for the neighbors of the neighborhood of Rekalde. We understand that when a project is of this magnitude we have to believe it, and we have believed it and we have tried, to the extent possible, to give maximum impetus to such projects wherever we have been. We have put all our will, being aware, and also with responsibility, that at times it was tremendously difficult, even impossible, to give the necessary impetus to economic circumstances. But whenever possible, we've been there to push him. Today the People's Party brings this issue to the fore, and I believe that we must start from a very fundamental basis, and I believe that all the parliamentary groups present here are betting on that line 4 of the subway, which I believe is already a very important starting point. I am not going to hide from you that I was somewhat surprised by this proposal, in so far as the People's Party had incorporated or tabled an amendment to the budgets, budgets that were then agreed with the Government, with the two political parties that we supported by the Government, and that in some way we understood that it was not enough to be able to push forward a project of this magnitude. Finally, I believe that it has somehow been corrected by this compromise. There will be enough budget to be able to draft this constructive project in 2019, and I also think that it puts certain attitudes or ways of managing on the wall, which I think are not exactly an element to highlight from this government. Because I think we need to be careful, I think we need to handle concrete data, we need to know what we're talking about and, from there, take steps. I therefore believe that the compromise amendment that we have reached is somewhat more prudent than the initial one and I believe that it is a positive one in the materialization of this project and, in particular, in the drafting of the constructive draft of line 4 of the Bilbao metro. As for the participatory process proposed in the amendment to add EH Bildu, we agree and understand that, when a project has the characteristics, the magnitude of this project and, in addition, it has very clear affections to more than 70,000 inhabitants of a city like Bilbao, we understand that a participatory process in which neighbours and neighbors can speak is also a very important issue to take into account. It should be said that, previously, in the information project, the neighbours themselves also had the opportunity to participate and even had the option to indicate their preferences in locating the different stations. What do you want me to tell them? I have a very calm conscience, the Basque Socialists have a very calm conscience because, precisely, it was we, there for the year 2014, who paralyzed the tram project to boost the project of metro line 4 during our stage in the government. It was we who, in some ways too, understood that it was the best way to communicate those neighborhoods of Bilbao with the center and with the different neighborhoods. You, Mrs Llanos, commented that perhaps the fact that we have extended it or that we are doing that in 2019 is the result of us being at the door of a municipal campaign. I've explained it to you before. I think no, I think it is a matter of prudence, of going step by step, of going piano piano and of consolidating a project that we understand is of undoubted relevance to Bilbao. In short, I believe that this project has always been on the agenda, on the agenda of the socialists in particular, and on the agenda of this government too, because it is in our own government agreement to push forward the construction of that line 4 of Bilbao. And I have no doubt that through the 2019 budgets and the drafting of the constructive project there is an important impetus for a project that we hope and wish that, always taking into account the budgetary capacity of this Government, it can be developed as soon as possible. Let us therefore hope that when the time comes to support these budgets, we will have the maximum support from all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u126	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons. First of all, Mrs Llanos, I must acknowledge your persistence in this matter: from April 2016 to an inquiry per year. Confessing also, naive of me, that I thought that after reaching an agreement his speech was going to be a little less acidic, but, well, we already knew each other and, well, in case he had also prepared material. When I read the operative part of your motion following the inquiry in this House on 2 March last, I was reminded of the pedagogical and illustrative half-yearly appearances of Mr Larrazabal in the past parliamentary term in the Committee of Institutions to report on the level of compliance with the GNPs approved by this Parliament. He recalled how he stated that there were some GNPs which, even if approved by the majority of the House, could not be carried out by different impediments. He spoke of legal grounds, if the proposal made involved some kind of illegality; he spoke of technical grounds, if the proposal could not be made for such circumstances; that of economic grounds, if there was no budget allocation, and even spoke of grounds for opportunity. And finally, that's where I initially placed his proposal, of which they were impossible to fulfill, when there were several of these circumstances. In her reply on 2 March, the Counsellor informed her of the concrete situation of the studies and projects on line 4 of the Bilbao metro and the incidents that had arisen that made it impossible, at least from every parameter of the rigour and seriousness that the policy should govern in this type of investments, that during this year 2018 the constructive project of the Moyua-Rekalde stretch could be bid. Therefore, the technical problems I mentioned earlier. Moreover, its proposal did not correspond, at least quantitatively, as mentioned above, with its budget amendment No 80 to the Budgets for this year, since with the proposed and accepted increase of 100,000 euros which motivated as necessary to give impetus to the new metro lines Bilbao, such a tender would not be possible. Therefore: problems of an economic nature. He said before that his amendment was to put this matter on the agenda of the Basque Government. Well, I tell you that, despite your amendment, this issue is on the agenda of the Basque Government and, nothing more clear, as we shall say, is on your government agenda, which is what guides the management of this government. But said this, said this, in line with this, I must also acknowledge your possible attitude on this subject and the predisposition you have shown to reach a feasible and reasonable agreement, and it is to be thanked for this attitude. That is why, in our compromise amendment, which we have signed with the rest of the amending parliamentary groups, we urged the Basque Government to make two commitments. First, the formulation throughout this 2018 exercise of the informative study of line 4, guaranteeing a participatory process that must, of course, be channelled into the timely process of public information, thus also taking into account the addiction amendment proposed by EH Bildu. And secondly, to allocate in 2019 the necessary budget line and sufficient to bid the constructive project Moyua-Rekalde. So, as you see, compromises. The 2018 budget was increased by 100,000 euros line 4 and 5. Commitment. We must also highlight the commitments and the facts that you say. Moreover, although it has been reflected in the final document, in the transactional offered we also collected another of the commitments of this Government for this legislature, and we offered it to it because in this line the People's Group amended the Budgets (amendment number 83, which was accepted with an increase of 80,000 euros, necessary to provide funds to the works of the closing of the tram ring of Bilbao, to better connect the city). And we picked it up – and it has not finally been picked up, not for you – because in addition to being on the government program, as we will then mention, when we talk about line 4 of the Bilbao metro, we should not consider it as an island, the counselor said, but instead it is part of an integrated transport system. We understand that all transport systems must operate in an integrated, coordinated and seamless manner. We are committed to the integration of transport systems, seeking to ensure that the material and human economic resources for transport are efficient, and to this end we need a comprehensive planning of transport systems. see, as was also said, the economic and budgetary availabilities. Well, you said, and today it has again affected, that these projects do not arrive, that the electoral programs are... In the electoral programmes of the last two legislatures and in the subsequent government programmes, line 4 of the metro appears. Therefore, I understand that it is a little contradiction, if it appears in the government program, that is not a priority... Well, there'd be something squeaking. In particular, what they say about these government programmes. That of the last legislature said, "Advanced in the development of the systems of transport of metropolitan and tram railways in the capitals and their environment of influence". And in this line the last legislature was worked. And in this program of government of this legislature is established "The commitment to prolong the tram of Bilbao in order to advance the objective of completing the tram ring. To definitively culminate the metro line 3 – last Sunday it was precisely its first anniversary – and to continue with the studies of lines 4 and 5". Do you think that if they're on the government program, they're not a priority? You have said that next year there are elections, and within two other elections, and people are quite responsible and intelligent with these subjects. And what has been done? Well, here I am not going to bore you by repeating all the details that Mrs Tapia provided, which clearly showed that this is a very complex work, both technically and economically, and that its processing has never been stopped. Only to emphasize, as a relevant fact for the agreed, the impossibility, which we said before, that in the current development of the constructive project of the civil work of the Matiko-Moyua section, a constructive approach is made absolutely different from that which existed in the informative study of 2012 and this makes it necessary to reformulate this informative study because it does not serve for this new solution. As you well know, the informative study of the constructive project is the step before the constructive project of any public work of these characteristics. And as the councilwoman also said, and although I think it is interesting and, well, because you also questioned the commitment of this government to the historic territory of Bizkaia, and I think the councilwoman told you that, in addition to line 4 is working on the studies and projects of line 5, on the study and projects of the connection of line 3 with the airport of Loiu, on the arrival of high speed in Bilbao, on the construction of the southern railway variant, on the solution of connection of Metro Bilbao with the campus of Leioa and on the construction of the railway variant of Ermua. Therefore, as you see, many projects, many commitments to Bizkaia, also to Gipuzkoa and Araba, which require reflection, and that each of the projects must be analysed and evaluated what is called "cost-benefit", as Mrs Ugarte said, without forgetting the situation of government and parliamentary indebtedness. In the meantime, the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, consisting of the Bilbao City Council, the Bizkaia Provincial Council, the Basque Government, has been set up, whose main function is to analyse among all the institutions concerned how transport is to be found throughout the territory, to analyse what are the needs for the future and how and which transport system best responds to the needs of the citizenry in order to provide a good service. Do you understand this is delaying? I think this is moving forward, moving forward qualitatively. One of the first decisions for this comprehensive planning objective was to bid on the drafting of Bizkaia's 2018-2028 strategic public transport plan, which, in addition to obtaining the most current picture, should determine what should be the main lines of the institutions during the coming years. This work will be carried out by July this year, so do not come to conclusions before that, Mrs Llanos. Infrastructural investment policy needs to be done by planning well, thinking – you said that we spend our lives thinking; we prefer that we are thought to be overly reflective rather than unthinkable – by carrying out this cost-benefit analysis and preparing all the projects so that they can be carried out at the necessary time and that they should not be started. Therefore, once this planning is completed and the cost-benefit analysis is carried out, the appropriate decisions will be made within the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, decisions that will be made, as I say, between all the institutions involved (the City Council, the Council and the Government), with all the completed projects and with all the seriousness and rigour of the world. Have no doubt about it, Mrs. Llanos. I was telling the counselor, she's going to try to work so that things are done in the best possible way, responding to the needs of the best solutions in each case. The corresponding work will be done, informative studies, are being done, constructive projects, analyzing the cost of each of these works, the benefit that will be obtained and what is the best solution. It is essential in this situation and in the whole, to rationalise and prioritize public resources. Neither you, Mrs Llanos, nor I are competent to decide on this matter; it will logically be the institutions concerned. I've got a second left, from what you've said... It gives us lessons in listening to the citizenry. Well, then, what am I going to tell him. Well, that's where we have retirees, women, judges and prosecutors... We talked before. They do listen to the citizenry to put life imprisonment under review, so they do. He says they never arrive, non-compliance with deadlines... Well, I don't have time, but then I'll talk to you, if you like, about the TAV, the Urbinaga exchanger... What I did find unfair and uncertain, that is, with that gratuitousness, is that Rekalde's neighbours are not a priority for this Government. It seems to me, as I say to you, unfair and uncertain because all people in this country are a priority for this Government. I think it's shown day by day. And what the Spanish government has always bet on Euskadi... Well, well, you'll allow me to make it subject to interpretation. And the last thing he said, "that commitment that doesn't cost anything to accept." Well, then, you see the commitments in a very light way; we see them from a point of view of seriousness and responsibility. And this commitment is a commitment that does cost, because it costs financially, it costs technically, and it is a commitment. And so it is valued, not that it is said that it is not difficult to accept this compromise. It does cost when you're responsible. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. A group that hasn't run any corrections together Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u129	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Of course, speaking at the last round has good things, but also bad things; Almost everything has been said at the moment, but I will try to explain my team's opinion in a few minutes. First of all, I want to explain that my team has no corrections because we agree with the original motion, and that we thought it might be a step forward. It is true that we will also support the agreement reached by the amending groups, although, as has already been said by some of the speakers, it is still insufficient, but it is a step forward. That study in 2018, we hope that this study will be the final one – I don't know how many have been commissioned for this line anymore – and that this constructive project will have sufficient budgetary reflection in the Basque Government's budgets next year. Our group, Elkarrekin Podemos, has already introduced an amendment worth EUR 1.4 million in this year's budget proposal, to be implemented in two years, and was rejected. There was also our group's commitment to line 4. But the story of this subject is not new, unfortunately, and I think it is worth while to say something about it. It is true, at least, that in June, the project of the 4th line of the First Line is to be presented, at least Mrs. Tapia said, but in reference to chronology about this subject, I think it deserves to present the next one. And I have also chosen the words of a person representing one of the parties that is in the Basque Government, in the Bizkaia District Council and in the Bilbao City Council, as is the transport councillor of the Bilbao City Council. In the middle of the City Hall I told what the history of this line has been – I say so that I am not accused of demagogy –: On 22 September 2008, the basic study was awarded to Idom engineering; just one year later, on 22 September 2009, this basic study and the drafting of the informational study were presented; that same year it was decided to connect line 3 with line 4 of the Bilbao metro; in 2011 the informational study was completed; in 2012 the informational study by the Bizkaia Transport Consortium was approved and one of the first calculations of the cost of the line was completed, which would be 380 million euros – then this figure is also varying –; on 16 December 2015 it was agreed to bid on the constructive project, and on 20 October of year 16 it is awarded to Sener, that project we are currently waiting for. Meanwhile, during all this time, there have been contradictory speeches by many of the people who have held the responsibilities, both the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry and the Basque Government, as Mrs Llanos has already reported. Come on, it's been 10 years, 10 years, for some studies and for the constructive project. Not to start a line, not to start the work, but for studies and the constructive project. Yes, Mr Andueza, I welcome today's agreement – similar initiatives were rejected at the Bilbao City Council; we will see what happens next week at the Bizkaia General Councils – but I think, "soft, soft", whatever we want, but I remember that motto... The "plan piano", I think you said, recalls a lot to that motto of "Euskadi, a country in progress", but I think that with line 4 it is a country in progress very slow or too slow, because after today's agreement I believe that shortly the Basque Government should also commit itself to setting deadlines at the beginning of the works, to go on concretely what has not been achieved in today's compromise. At least if there is political will, as it seems to be in today's agreement. Because it is true, and Mrs Llanos has also commented, and I have lived in Irala and I know very well those promises, both from the City Council and from other institutions, that come and go, those promises that in the election year, months before, begin to announce in widely read media in Bizkaia – and I think that everyone already knows who I am referring to – as if they were loop ads. I think everyone agrees that line 4 of Bilbao is the only viable solution for southern Bilbao. There have been others, such as that of the Rekalde tram, a solution that, well, proved unsuccessful or could not be carried forward, but I believe that there is consensus among all groups to connect southern Bilbao through line 4. I believe that, moreover, it is a line that is obviously and indeed going to be expensive, like all the lines of the Bilbao metro, but which is necessary. We are talking about connecting about 60,000 people, who are suddenly those who live and those who live in the neighborhoods of Irala, Errekalde, Miribilla, Zabala, San Adrian, Peñascal, Ametzola, etc. I believe, moreover, that we all define the vertebrate axis of the Great Bilbao, of the greatest concentration of population we have in our country. And I believe that if we bet on that sustainable mobility, and we agree, at least in theory, with many of the proposals that the Government, and also the Bilbao City Council, can make in terms of mobility, another thing is that we need to analyse the concrete proposals to also take the private vehicle out of the streets of Bilbao and to bet on sustainable mobility, and I believe that line 4 of Bilbao is fundamental to moving towards that greater mobility. Because, moreover, it is not only a question of mobility, because it seems that mobility is like an empty word, the mobility of these neighborhoods, especially, which are heavily punished neighborhoods, determines many things, and determines people's day to day, determines access to public services, among others. For example, you can ask in Irala what it costs to get to the hospital in Basurto, which is just 10 minutes, 5 minutes by car, and what it costs to get to by bus, that there is a bus every hour, when it arrives every hour, because of the congested traffic in Irala. Because many times, when we talk about infrastructure – and curiously I'm not the spokesperson in this matter – we usually talk about projects, we usually talk about roads, we usually talk about small towns. But I have also heard, speaking of large projects, Mr Zorrilla talking about other projects that are standing or going on a slow march or that are going on a slow development, and I thought I heard him talking about the metro and the solution by metro to the University of Leioa or the connection to the technological park. I would invite you, even if it is a matter of the Bizkaia General Councils, to get on the bus at the first hour of Monday to the Leioa Campus – on which I myself went up above the grip bar – or check out the photos that the workers of the technology park climb every Monday and Tuesday morning – and every day of the week – of how the Bizkaibuses are saturated Volviendo a los barrios de Bilbao. The neighborhood has been mobilized for the development of its neighborhood for many years, they have made demonstrations, they have collected 4,000 signatures for the subway. Mobilizations that do not come again in southern Bilbao, because each and every one of the equipment in Rekalde, Irala and southern Bilbao, and in most of Bilbao's working-class neighborhoods, have gotten them with blood, sweat and tears, and a lot of mobilization on the street. And as a neighbor I've been from Irala, I have to recognize that historic struggle of the neighborhood association for the dignity of living conditions in Irala and also in other neighborhoods of the south. Many mobilizations: Kukutzaren eraispenaren aurka mobilized ziren ere auzotarrak; Bilbo ebakitzen two autopistaren zubi-bidearen aurka mobilized egin dira sarritan; beraien auzoak hezkuntza publiko eta kalitatezkoa izan dezaten borrokatu dira baita ére. They have also been mobilized by the underground of the tracks in Eskurtze; years and years of unfulfilled promises, delays and delays, while they saw that works that began later in the centre of Bilbao ended earlier. For many years they have fought for their neighbours, and for many years they have been forced to listen to promises full. Thanks, and that's what the people who have lived and who know these neighborhoods feel so, thanks to these struggles are that they are neighborhoods with roots, that people don't want to move out of those neighborhoods, but want to coordinate them, that they want better and greater public services for those neighborhoods and that, despite the historical institutional laxity, they have kept the neighborhoods standing. And I believe that this moment and this agreement, which we congratulate on it, I insist, and we will be vigilant in ensuring that the budgets are met, I hope that this agreement is the beginning of the end of that historic neglect of the institutions towards southern Bilbao. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u130	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing to responses turn. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u131	It is true that I was going to do it from the site, what happens is that I find it more difficult to look at everyone, and the truth is that I want to start with what I think is most important, which is to achieve the agreement. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Ugarte, Mr Andueza and Mr Zorrilla for signing this amendment, and Mr Martínez for their support. The truth is, I subscribe to many of the words he has said. It was not about being acidic in my speech, but it was about making a chronology of what has been the line, of the difficulties it has had. And Mrs Ugarte was talking here about the social profitability of infrastructure and how expensive an infrastructure can be. Obviously, an infrastructure such as a metro line is an expensive infrastructure, but, of course, if it relates to cost with social profitability, with what it means for Rekalde's neighbours to gain in quality of life, in being able to communicate, as I said before, with the rest of Bilbao and with the rest of Bizkaia, because, from the point of view of social profitability, that cost is infinitely lower. And Mr. Zorrilla spoke of perseverance; perseverance, as Mr. Martínez has rightly said, is not of this group, which it is true that we have always defended line 4 and we have brought it here on many occasions, perseverance is of the neighbors, of the neighbors. And when I said that we said that they were not a priority and that they were forgotten, they say so. We have met on many occasions with the neighbors and always They have shown us that they feel absolutely forgotten, that they never feel among those priorities of the Basque Government. And I, fundamentally, as I was saying, today what I want here is to value the agreement. What seemed impossible has become possible. There was no compromise, because there was no compromise. It did not exist in the budgets, so we put the amendment in order to put it on that agenda. It can appear in the government program, it also appeared in the last legislature and passed almost blank. He may be in this one, but he has to go out of business. And we, well, believe that today we all have to congratulate each other because that commitment exists, because what seemed impossible now is possible and because those who win fundamentally are Rekalde's neighbours. That is why, as he said, congratulations to all of us for being able to reach this agreement, which is, in our view, a first step, a small step, but I believe that for the neighbours it is a great step because it is a commitment of the institutions to them, and, above all, as he said, congratulations to us and thanks to the neighbours, because it is, as has been said here, those who, with their struggle, have managed to make this small step possible, that in other institutions it has not been possible, and something that, as I say, became or seemed impossible, as Mr Zorrilla said, today, however, that impossibility has become possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u132	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Azezza, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u133	Yes, from where I was, with your permission, very briefly. I repeat myself because it has always been a commitment of the socialists to push that line and I believe that the data are there, the facts are there. I have exposed them and I believe that absolutely no one can deny it. But it's true, and I've also said it in My first intervention, that often budget availability, given the economic circumstances, is not what we would all like. Undoubtedly, if the times had been better, I have no doubt that the momentum of this project would have been much greater. I hope and hope that this step will be a fundamental step and that we will be available in the future for this project to take place as soon as possible. Yo, what do you want me to say? I would like this project to take on high-speed train speed and not on the conventional train that you so much defend, but, in any case, I think it is a fundamental step, I think it is a decisive step and I think it is much more decisive that all the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this House today have expressed our desire that this project be a real project. Nor do I have any doubt that Mrs Tapia, the Counsellor, would also like to give her an impetus, but I understand that it is not a mark of this Government to make promises that cannot be fulfilled later. Mrs Tapia would probably like to keep promises such as those made by Mr de Fomento, who is promising the arrivals of the AVE to all the regions of Spain, but, well, I think we have to be quite rational, go step by step, as I said, be aware of the reality that we have and above all bet real on the projects so that they really are reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u134	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Basque patriots. Mr. Zorrill, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u135	With your permission, very short of my seat. Just answer the Podemos team together. Mr Martínez said that the agreement reached so far is insufficient; I would like to remind him of the well-known and repeated words of Mr Areso, acting as Mayor of Bilbao, that "the elephants eat in pieces". Secondly, he talks about other projects. Of course there will be more projects. There is no doubt that the Bizkaia Mobility Authority will raise new projects because we are facing a living country. And, thirdly, with regard to deadlines. It says, "set deadlines." Well, we told him that by July this year he will be writing the Bizkaia's 2018-2028 strategic public transport plan, where the institutions involved will determine the priorities and time frames you demanded. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. And finally, together Podemos. Mr Martínnez will not speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the popular Basques, the EH Collect, the Basque Sociists, and the middle-line corrections signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-12.u137	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty.
