ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We will begin the whole meeting, and first tell the second point that it is left for another. First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Emba Lopez de Laiyai Saez de Maturuna EH Collector, about the steps to integrate Trebiñu Araban. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative. And, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u1	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good morning and welcome to all of you who came from Trebian. We're the result of an interaction here today. We spoke, after all, of the situation in Trebinu, of the right to decide. In this translation it was evident that 25 years later this right is still intact. And the answer is simple: Today's purpose is to improve the conditions of life and to encourage a historical claim from the people of Trebinu. In the Basque Country where the human chain was organized last Sunday, we had only one purpose on the roads in order to guarantee the rights. Some of you were there, and then please consider and observe the inhabitants of Trebianu. And why do we bring him back to this Chamber of Trebiñu? To guarantee the rights submitted to, too, Trebunun. The actions you've done so far were not enough and you have to step forwards. And that's our job. We know we have different views, but today we see a chance to make real progress, we have a unique opportunity to take advantage of it and give real answers to the residents of Trebinu, for once...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u3	I'll take advantage of it while we stop drinking water. Again here, again Trebiñu and again asking us to do our homework, because we're late. Again waiting for politicians and politicians to put on their batteries and give us answers, to see if this is the final one. We are faced with a historic opportunity, as it seems to have been the rest, to take action, although history shows us that everything, absolutely everything, can get worse. We are faced with a real opportunity to respond effectively to this current demand, but at the same time it has been conquered; we do not know whether it is accidentally, premeditatedly or perhaps very well studied. We're going to be brave, we're going to listen to what we're being asked from Trebiñou and we're going to take action. The objective of Euskal Herria Bildu is to guarantee the same conditions, both to the people living in Trebiñu and to those living in Araba. It's nothing of the other world; we don't want second-rate people in this territory. For Euskal Herria Bildu Trebiñu is the eighth Arab squad. But it's not worth leaving the theory, it's not worth talking and good words to talk about Araba's eighth squad when we don't believe it. It has to be in fact and it has to be legal. We have to go into practice, and in that we have to demand responsibilities – I think more to one than to another – from all the groups in this House. Citizens living in Treviño suffer administrative dependence on Burgos, they suffer functional and social dependence on Araba, and this means loss of rights, loss of quality of life and makes daily life unsustainable for people living in the enclave. It has been 25 years since the Senate, after a presentation, recommended giving an answer to Treviño, 25 years since they are a generation, 25 years that are a loss of rights and, of course, 25 years that have gone to waste. 25 years that have not served to give a solution to Treviño, to those who live and suffer the consequences of living in the center of Araba, yes, it is true, but that they have to give accounts, pay taxes and ask for services from the Burgos, the Government of Castile and León and the Basque Government and the Delegation of Araba. 15 days ago I brought here, we brought the inquiry in which we asked for an institutional declaration that had been approved just days before, on May 18, in the City Hall of Treviño. We asked specifically the position of the Basque Government in relation to this statement and an explanation of the meaning of its vote, but above all we were interested in knowing the position of the Government with regard to Treviño. We also asked how they were going to guarantee the rights of the people of Treviño and the steps they were going to take. The Government's response was ambiguous, it was frustrating, the truth. It was a rather complacent response, to say the least, and it was a response where it became clear that Treviño is certainly not in the priorities of this Government. It was also clear that patches have been put in place for many years, but that there has been a lack of political courage in the Government to pull it out again and again at all the negotiating tables and various negotiations in Madrid. The answer was that they have already been given many steps, well, that much has been worked out, indeed, that much has been discussed, indeed, and that continue to be discussed. Honestly – I said it then, I repeat it again today – it was an answer fraud and a disappointment, but nothing new, because we have been disappointed after disappointment for 25 years. From our group we see abandonment and see more of the same, because surprise – and much – how to negotiate here involves so many prejudices – we have just seen and suffered at these last moments, I was going to say these last hours – and they are unable to speak clearly and put in writing what for many years is being asked not only from the Basque side, from the Alaves side, but also from the people living in Treviño: that Treviño's citizenship can decide freely and democratically how and with whom it wants to live. It's a very simple and logical thing. Of course, at the PNV, if I have to blame you, it's that you keep going around in the same roundabout, and we still don't dare say things by name and write them on paper. And I say this because as the Araba Foral Diputation, in this case, moves something, but moves something so as not to move anything, once again – but I do not say it, moreover – we saw the Araba Diputation a few days ago and the Burgos Diputation signing agreements, barely a month ago, in a monastery, in a super-superbreacted act, in front of a lot of flags and full of goodism; it was a pretty good act..., photographically, it turned out very well. They sold as a success and a triumph what was legal coverage of something that was already being done: punctual conventions, insufficient conventions and scarce conventions. In short, we saw a signature of these agreements to improve the quality of life of people living in Treviño who are not new, quite the contrary: they are previous agreements that are sold as a novelty, which is different. Already on April 24, 2017, that is, already year and peak, the deputy general of Araba, Mr González, said textually: "We have to make it compatible that Treviño continues to demand, on the one hand, the definitive solution to his situation with improving the quality of life to his citizens, and for this we will sign agreements of collaboration". It has been a year and two months, and they have finally signed the agreements that were already being made. Excuse me if it sounds like this is selling smoke. Of the 14 outstanding conventions, there are actually going to be seven. This is what there is and this is what we have on the table. And they are conventions designed to provide services, indeed, but they are insufficient. Agreements that leave out absolutely structural issues; we are talking about health, education, agriculture, water, sanitation, transport. Politically, this area doesn't matter. Politically it does not matter because it is a rural area, because it has few inhabitants, because it has no votes, we will be clear, and, moreover, because it would have a high economic cost for the Foral Diputación de Álava, but also for the Basque Government. Let's be brave once and for all, write what we are thinking and what we do and say in front of the gallery. It's as simple as that, committing to doing something. So the reading is clear: agreements are negotiated to provide services, but on issues of territoriality no progress is made, no progress is desired. No one puts forward the will of people who have the right to decide freely and democratically, and they are also not asked how and with whom they want to live, it is very simple. They keep putting on patches, but I think we're tired. And not only has Euskal Herria Bildu been tired, I think the people living in Treviño are absolutely tired and bored. Last May the City Council, tired also, like us, of words and lack of measures, well, approved an institutional declaration. By the way, Mr Erkoreka, not in all administrations and institutions the institutional declarations are approved by a majority, aho batez – I don't come out in Spanish – ...unanimity, very well... They were approved by a majority only, and that was the case. A definitive comprehensive convention and a road map were called for, culminating in the free and democratic decision of the Treviñes. It did go on, actually. There were votes against the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party and the mayor's, but it went ahead with the rest of the parties. Well, a statement where it's clear that political will and political positioning, most of all, is in question, isn't it? He has just lost the PNV, in addition, two golden opportunities to prove that Treviño is a priority and two golden opportunities in the last two weeks, because on the one hand they negotiate with the People's Party the Budgets – where, of course, Treviño does not appear – and on the other hand, the next week the motion of censure is approved to make Mr Sánchez president of the Socialist Party, in which Treviño, of course, does not appear. Lost opportunities, again. The City Council of Treviño takes the initiative once again, after several gates, because it will not be the first gate they take; after 25 years, they have been giving and have suffered enough. Today the Basque Nationalist Party will tell me – and we will hear nothing else come out – that they have just requested... [[Berber]] I shut up because I can't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u5	Today the Basque Nationalist Party will tell me that it has requested for June 26th an appearance of the mayors of the two municipalities of Treviño in the Senate, and indeed it is. But for what? If we are unable to reach an agreement here! Indeed, far from being happy, they again disappoint me and again worry me, because it is selling smoke. Because if a compromise amendment today has seen or seen so many problems of comas, points and the right to decide, there is no point in a Senate appearance, more than pure and harsh propaganda. Let's do politics in capitals, I think that's our job here, and it's essential to do politics in capitals. Let's be brave, I don't think I'm asking for anything new. Let us negotiate once and for all to resolve the territorial conflict, leaving ourselves in need of agreements, agreements and continuing to circle in the same roundabout. After many years of inaction, forgive me, steps have been taken, but they have not been seen, it is time to really defend Treviño, hence we have to take into account the people who live there and listen to them. Let's hope they don't give them a door once again and take advantage of the historic opportunity, I believe that historical – only to turn on the radio in the mornings to see that we are in a historical moment – we need to make real progress in the right to decide and to put on the table the people who live in Treviño, and not only in Treviño, also those who live in Araba. Next Sunday we have a unique opportunity to put the agreements that are made here in practice. That's why it's as necessary as important to do what we signed here. We're looking forward to seeing Trebiñu Araban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u6	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u7	Good morning, everyone. Gracias, señora presidenta. We begin today's plenary by debating a motion that brings to this plenary the group Euskal Herria Bildu, concerning the steps to be taken for the integration of Treviño in Araba. Treviño's litigation is part of the citizen's demand, which it requests in Treviño County and La Puebla de Arganzón, which are the two municipalities of the Treviño enclave, to integrate into the historical territory of Álava. For our group it is incomprehensible that in 2018 we are still attending debates of this nature, which are the product of administrative anachronism and institutional blockade, while there are several thousand people who are discriminated against in access to public services. There has been, however, no complete and accepted referendum so far. Basically, it is another attempt to request their integration in Álava, because they understand the citizens of these municipalities, as we do, that it is the only way to guarantee permanently the services and the improvement of the quality of life of the citizens of the enclave. It is true that the framework agreement for collaboration between the Foral de Álava and the Provincial Diputación de Burgos, ratified in the Norma Foral 6/2017 of 29 March, guarantees the provision of a number of services in matters such as social services, firefighters, Basque, infrastructure, winter viability or transport. It is a two-year transitional agreement, extending to two more and which also requires commitment by the Castile and León Board, with key competencies such as health care or winter viability. It is clear that they are not a definitive solution and that they leave Treviño's future at the mercy of the wishes of the institutions at all times. A year ago, on June 23, 2017, both municipalities signed a motion calling for full and legal integration into the historical territory of Álava, but be it the politicians and institutions with competence who seek the most appropriate legal formula, from the adoption of a law of enclaves that includes Treviño to an organic law exclusive to this enclave. There have been numerous occasions when the situation in Treviño has been addressed in the Basque Parliament, but the reality is now different from the previous ones, since just over two months ago the Burgos and Araba parliaments signed a historic agreement by signing seven agreements to improve public services to the neighbours of this enclave, after two decades of long administrative conflicts. Thus, they have sealed their cooperation in areas such as civil protection and emergency care, integration and social care for older, disabled and dependent persons, combating gender-based violence or promoting cultural and educational activities and the normalization of the Basque language. However, we believe that it is insufficient and that it is necessary to facilitate and promote measures that complement the full integration of the two municipalities in Araba. It is time to give a definitive solution from inter-agency coordination to what the treviants themselves call for to improve their lives and their day-to-day lives. As simple as that. And there are already almost 130 interventions made in the Alaves institutions with the theme of Treviño, more than 140 made in this House, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate; and I am not going to count the institutional statements that have been made in support of the citizens of both municipalities, and yet we continue in this situation. I am not going to make from this rostrum a history of centuries in which, once in a while, the people of Treviño have been met with the door in their nostrils. We are faced with a normative and administrative problem, but above all, a political one, starting with the political will to resolve a conflict that has occupied us for centuries. It began when the brotherhood of Álava began to form in 1463 and the lords of Arganzón and Treviño refused to integrate into it. Already in 1646 they asked the people of Treviño to pass to the administrative frame lavés, and 400 years later we continue in the same. Nor is it useful to continue to talk about the frustrated attempts, the consultations held, the presentation in the Senate in 1995 to study the situation of the enclaves with two recommendations: an organic law that resolved the situation of the numerous enclaves and of different nature, and a release of the situation so that the statutes of Gernika and Castile and León can be applied. And in 2011 the commission was formed, but there was no consensus because the institutions of Castile and León blocked the progress towards a definitive situation. In 2014 at the Congress of Deputies, the proposed law on the incorporation of Treviño into the Arab Historical Territory presented by the Basque Parliament was rejected. And now, what position are we in? In an administrative situation of transitoryness, precariousness and legal insecurity for Treviño, where the rational alternative is to transfer the ownership of the enclave to the institutions of Araba and Euskadi; where Treviño has been suffering too long from the consequences of this unreason and where we have to fix a date of settlement; and, finally, where the solution is exclusively political and in which the parties that are here today and we have representation in the Courts of Castile and León and in Congress and in the Senate we have to do our duties with our political groups. Therefore, from Elkarrekin We have tabled an amendment to the motion submitted by EH Bildu in which we requested that the Basque Parliament undertake to study within the framework of the Self-Government Paper new solutions and alternatives for the unlocking of the situation in which the Treviño enclave is located. We also ask the Basque Parliament to urge the Burgos and the Junta de Castilla y León to listen and respect the will of the people living in Treviño County and La Puebla de Arganzón, and to facilitate the incorporation of these municipalities into Araba. In addition, the Basque Parliament urges the central government to convene a legal and guaranteed referendum so that the citizens of the municipalities of Treviño and La Puebla de Arganzón can unequivocally express their opinion on the incorporation of Araba. In addition, our group in the Courts of Castile and León has met both representatives of the municipalities of Treviño and the senators of Unite Pode de Araba themselves, and have worked in Congress to end once and for all with this anachronism that is so damaging to those who de facto In Elkarrekin We want and believe that the situation of Treviño has to reach a definitive solution, that we know it passes through an organic law in Congress that changes the territorial limits allowing Treviño to become part of Alava, or through a law of enclaves. We cannot and must not be spectators of what is happening; or, rather, what is not happening. They ask us to look for the proper legal-administrative procedure, and that is what we have to do. I think the letters are on the table, that everyone here and in Treviño knows what can be expected of everyone and we know that it is in the Congress of Deputies where this matter has to be resolved. For our part, we assure you that we are in permanent contact with the compañeras of the group of Unidos Podemos and that they are sensitive to the centuries-old demands of Treviño. There's only one thing left to get together and get him out of here once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u9	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, councillor, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we are talking about Treviño again in this House and in this legislature, and of course what this parliamentarian and the group he represents has to say is that my group is in favour of Treviño being Álava. It is, it has been and, of course, that is what we as a parliamentary group want and as a Basque party also want. In addition, Treviño's reality is intimately linked and related in many ways to Álava, to Vitoria, and they too recognize it, and it is true. They recognize it and that is why, every day, perhaps even if they are small or for some imperceptible, but, well, there are steps of recognition with the authorities of Burgos or Castile and León in relation to that there is a reason there, there is a territorial reason and there is a reason to work with. We are going to appreciate the institutional reality, we also have to. It is complicated, it is part of two different institutional entities, but we are going to appreciate the existing collaboration, we want to do so in the full amendment that we have tabled. What we are not going to move from, of course, is from our institutional point of view. What would be good? For example, the reopening of the enclaves in the Senate, which is the Territorial House, would be good news. But it depends on the initiatives or things the groups do in that House. We understand that negotiation in the Courts would be the solution, but in any case it does not depend so much on us. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety. To Bildu's representative, it can be seen that she is worth nothing and also criticizes what is progress and what is a progression in harmony between the administrations. And that too must be valued. Maybe, lately we've seen a tune that didn't exist before. Well, we're going to value what's there, regardless of what we want is something else, but we're going to value what's there. We want to speak positively, appreciating these advances from optimism, not from the pessimism in which Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe is placed. We're going to try to see them from optimism. And that is why we do want to think, and we would like the Basque Parliament to declare that it is within the institutional framework of that dialogue, of that harmony of statutory respect, of the collaboration between Euskadi and Castilla and León, between Álava and Burgos, where the scope of action of all the autonomous, outside and local administrations, regarding the reality of the Treviño enclave, must be established. I would therefore like to appreciate the progress that has been made in this regard with the recent signing of the seven agreements – you have referred to them – between the Burgos and the Foral de Álava Council, in the development of the framework agreement signed between the two institutions in April 2017 and approved by the General Councils of Álava. This is a very interesting way, it is the best way today, on which progress is being made, regardless of whether others can be reached in the political negotiation in other areas (in the Senate, in the Congress of Deputies, in the Courts) in relation to this progress or in the negotiation itself between the administrations themselves, the Basque Administration and the Administration of Castile and León, in relation to growing this tune in view of the definitive integration of Treviño in Álava. It is clear that we have valued the framework agreement signed between the administrations last year in 2017, because that is where things are said. Things are said in relation to the bourgeois municipalities of Treviño County and La Puebla de Labarca, located in an enclave within the territory of Álava. There is a unique territorial reason, which supports and motivates institutional commitment to promote conditions that ensure adequate provision of services. That, for the provision of services in which this document is installed, this framework agreement, but it also recognizes, as it had never been done in documents signed by the two administrations, that unique territorial reason. Moreover, this framework agreement indicates that it is signed with the utmost respect for the statutes of autonomy, which are also there and which have to be respected or, where appropriate, amended or amended by other legislation. And we understand that this framework, this path, is in line with the seven conventions, in line with the foral standard that was adopted at the General Councils of Álava in relation to the framework agreement for collaboration between Álava and Burgos, and that is the way. Indeed, we would like some more things, but, well, if they are promoted – I hope they are promoted in other institutions, such as the central institutions (the Congress or the Senate), and I hope the steps will be taken. Our will is that, it is that we wish it could be achieved, but, well, in any case we value today that tune, that tune that has materialized once again in further progress. Certainly, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe will be insufficient, but that work of the seven conventions in relation to cooperation in civil protection, emergency care, integration and care for older persons, dependents, coordination in relation to gender violence, in equality policies, in projects for the maintenance, conservation and restoration of minor elements of equipment and infrastructure, as well as of qualified or protected artistic goods promoted by the municipalities of the enclave, other purposes in relation to youth... Well, in order to systematically improve collaborative relationships for the provision of services in the enclave and the extension to neighbouring municipalities. Well, this is one more step. It is not the final step, of course, that we all want in this House; but it is one more step that must be appreciated in the line of what I said at the beginning, in the line that for the first time in a text signed also by the Castilian-Leonese authorities it is said that there is a singular territorial reason that protects and determines commitments of these characteristics. We understand that this is the step. It is the step, walking forging those collaborations, those synchronies, and we have therefore presented that initiative that values what it values, what has been achieved. I hope that in other areas where these issues can be decided – this is not the case with the Basque Parliament – the final steps will be taken for the integration of Treviño in Álava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours. PRIETO SAN VICENTE jaunak: President, ladies and gentlemen. We share that Treviño must be part of Álava, we share it unanimously in this House. It has already been shared on previous dates. What we do not share is that on this issue there is only one legitimacy, that of the Alaves, and that the steps that have been taken have not been positive, as I will try to prove. Indeed, on this matter the Albanians have legitimacy, we have legitimacy the Basques, we have legitimacy the bourgeois, the Castilian-Leonese, and we also have legitimacy the whole of the representatives of Spain in the General Courts, because, in the end, their solution needs an organic law that resolves a disengagement and an annexation. In its day we also share, many years ago, a few decades ago, that the Senate enclaves' presentation made that X-ray of the enclaves that in Spain were requiring a solution of these characteristics. We believe that that had an interest, had a reason to be, and we also believe that that is no longer the way, because a problem is not solved by raising on the table twenty-two, but the problems are solved one by one. Always, the history of politics teaches that the best way to solve problems is one in one. It seems to us that it is a significant step forward that a communication that was broken very few years ago between the Burgos and the Álava Provincial Council has again found a path of understanding by signing these agreements and opening the door to signing more agreements that give close attention to the citizens of Treviño. That seems to us to be an important step forward, but above all, the most significant step forward that has taken place, after unanimity has been given in this House on repeated occasions to demand that Treviño be Álava, was when on 18 November 2014 we brought a proposal for an organic law to the Congress of Deputies, which came out of this Parliament, which had no vote against, although there was the abstention of two groups, but which had no vote against and which, moreover, had the cover of all the groups when that happened that afternoon in the Congress of Deputies. There has already been a very significant first step, and it is that if there had not been legitimacy to defend this proposal of organic law, the Congress of Deputies, in this case the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, which regulates the initiatives, would have had the capacity to have refused the processing. However, the procedure was carried out, the Bureau considered that the initiative was appropriate, and on that occasion, therefore, it was taken into consideration. It is true that that consideration did not prosper, and did not prosper with two arguments that I think were quite weak in themselves: one of the arguments said that there had to be a prior collaboration, a meeting, a dialogue between Euskadi and Castilla and León; dialogue, a meeting that has been tried many times and that the institutions of Castilla and León have always been closed to him; therefore, to make the appeal again at that time that was not taken into consideration was a weak argument, that it continues to exist and that we will have to continue trying. But, in any case, if we were to jump the organic law proposal it was because the dialogue between the two administrations, which would have been the most correct and direct way, was blocked, as it still remains. However, we do not lose sight of the interest in the resumption of this dialogue, and that is why our amendment sets out that path, the way to form a group, an institutional group, in this case led by the Basque Government, and moves from this Parliament to the Government, so that it can again put forward a new proposal for an organic law that will finally resolve this matter. The second argument that was then used is that all of this had to be done within the law, and indeed we were within the law when we came to the Congress of Deputies, when we had put forward a proposal for an organic law and when it had been accepted in the process. Therefore, this is the way, and, moreover, I believe that this is a way that draws an example of the institutions of the Treviño enclave, of the municipalities, of their representatives, because for many years they have been insisting repeatedly and with certainty that it is the way of politics, that it is the institutional way, that it is the way of dialogue, that it is the way of legality that resolves this matter. We had no doubt, the Socialist Group had no doubt in supporting that initiative when we were raised in this House, and that is precisely why this majority agreement arose, without any vote against, so that it could be dealt with in this way. We believe that this is the way, we believe that the precedents support insisting on this situation. We know that the road is difficult, because different legitimacys, different interests and different political rhythms are effectively opposed. All political groups obviously have neither the same political rhythm nor the same way of interpreting this politically, and yet we also valiantly and clearly defend what our political positions are. Some think that with the simple expression of the citizens of Treviño, with the only legitimacy of the citizens of Treviño, with the unilateral manifestation of the citizens of Treviño, this is already resolved, because the others, all they have to do is respect what these citizens propose and what the institutions that we agree with it can accompany them. It's not like that. I said this at the beginning of the speech: there are different legitimacys. The road, therefore, must be travelled collaboratively, it must be done by convincing one and the other, it must be done by seeking that no one feels bad and no one feels harmed, and I believe that in the end we will succeed, but we will succeed if we do not err in the way, if we do not try to seek impossible shortcuts, if we do not break the majorities that have been created before, if we do not go astray. It seems to me a political error to want to provoke that above that path of proposing organic law, above that possibility of doing so legitimately and institutionally, it is only to be done on its own. It seems to me a mistake, it seems to me that this weakens the position that this Parliament has already reached, and I hope that in the remaining few minutes this can be rectified, I hope that the amendment that we have tabled by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group can serve to have the support, the agreement, the compression of others and the search for a united path, a path of integration, a path of understanding and not a unilateral path, which will always be a failure. Therefore, it is not courageous to think about doing things sideways, it is not courageous to think about the right to decide when there is no right to decide, when that right to decide is simply a political option for anyone who wants to defend it, it is not courageous to deceive citizens by saying that only by calling for the right to decide problems are resolved in a rule of law. It is a tricky approach, it is an inconsistent approach, and, once again, it is going to prove itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u11	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Ramírez-Ecudero, your word is yours. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI "The U.S.A. wants to know that they're giving an answer to the legitimate intentions of the People of the Trebinka. For this purpose, let all the organizations produce a set of works, which will make a collection of solutions, and which will receive within itself an organic law, which will change the limits of our present territory, by allowing them to be united to the Himistric land of Araba. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the citizens of Treviño by setting up a working group with all the institutions involved, to carry out a draft resolution that includes an organic law for adoption in General Courts that modifies the current territorial boundaries, allowing them to be incorporated into the Arab Historical Territory." Before we continue, I want to explain, although it is not necessary, that our group, our party, obviously, trusts, thinks and works so that in the shortest possible time Treviño is the eighth Araba squad. We were at first partly in agreement with the background of the original motion of Euskal Herria Bildu, and I say with the background and not with the forms, but also in a background of a utopian world. We are in the twenty-first century, and the exclusive decision of the inhabitants of one enclave is not sufficient to condition that enclave to belong to one autonomous community or another. Perhaps in a utopian world it was possible, but we all know that in this real world, at this moment, that is impossible. That the opinion of the treviants and treviants is perhaps the main weapon in this conflict? It may be, but it can never be either exclusive or unique, as Bildu's motion said. In the matter of Treviño we have... we can no longer talk about unilaterality or bilaterality, we should perhaps talk about pentalaterality. Why? Because there are five agencies involved, which makes the situation very difficult. They are and have to say something about Treviño the Diputación de Burgos, the Diputación Foral de Álava, the Junta de Castilla y León, the Basque Government and, obviously, the Cortes Generales de Madrid, with which the thing is complicated and cannot be left to the dawn of the opinion of the Treviños and Treviños, which, I insist, can be the main condition for the start of this process, but it is neither the unique condition, nor the exclusive condition, as the original motion of Bildu said. Iñaki Lasagabaster's report on the organic law of autonomous statutes in the delimitation, creation and suppression of the provinces made it clear: State competence to modify the provincial territory through organic law seems incontestable, which means that statutory provisions that can specifically regulate the modification of the territory of a province cannot prevent State competence to approve, through organic law, provincial amendments. The decision, in these cases, can only fall into the State, since, if not, the resistance of the self-governing community of a part of its territory or of the acquirer would make this reform impossible in both cases. For this other reason it has been pointed out that the requirement for a favourable provincial or autonomous report to modify the provincial territory does not condition the powers of the General Courts to decide unilaterally on the matter by organic law. In any case, it should be understood that State competition must be motivated in its exercise, especially if the proposed modification of the provincial territory occurs as a result of an initiative of the affected population, which is legally foreseen and against which the legislator could not obviate the will of the people and should comply with it by issuing the corresponding organic law. Is Treviño's business slow? Obviously, it is not going very fast, but perhaps that is what we have just commented on, because there are five bodies involved and, of course, the resolution capacity is not only in Euskadi, but also depends on the Madrid General Courts. That's why the two mayors are also due to appear in the Senate next week on June 26. I do not agree, as Mrs Arroyabe said, that we are turning around the same roundabout, that it is good or that it is selling smoke. I believe that there are two levels: the level of the Basque Government, which, of course, can be found in high politics, and the level of the Foral Chamber of Álava, which does what it does is to meet the most practical, usual and useful needs of the inhabitants of Treviño. I am going to read the 13 subjects that someone has mentioned, but not the 13 in order to see how the concern of the Foral Chamber of Álava is obviously also present, and although the 13 have not yet been involved, the 13 have not yet started, but are in the process of being resolved, and in this way we will see how the concern of the Foral Chamber of Álava is also of the daily life, of the practice of the inhabitants of Treviño. There are 13 subjects, including: integration and social care for older, disabled and dependent persons; protocols and coordination in the fight against gender-based violence; public policies on equality; public policies on youth; civil protection and emergency care, in particular with regard to the prevention and extinction of fires and rescue; communication and transport infrastructure; winter viability plans; projects for the conservation, maintenance and restoration of minor equipment and infrastructure promoted by municipalities; projects for the conservation, maintenance, restoration of qualified or protected artistic goods with cultural protection systems; projects for the protection of the environment and of unique spaces, collection and management of waste, protection and intervention in the field of water; promotion and protection of the rural environment, coordinating policies aimed at promoting economic activity in itself, such as support, development and promotion of people and projects located in rural areas; collaboration in the management of municipal collection; facilitating the central administrative procurement of supplies and services; and, lastly, point 13, promotion of cultural activities, education and learning. So, I think we are working on a two-way street: on the one hand, the road for mayors to go to the Senate, the way of trying to harmonize the opinion of these five bodies (Diputación de Burgos, Diputación Foral de Álava, Junta de Castilla y León, Gobierno Vasco and the Cortes Generales), but we are not forgetting – I believe – the inhabitants of Treviño and their more daily, more practical and more peremptory needs. I think this double way of working is the only way. The Parliament, at its level, is responsible for providing the services that the Treviñese people have at 15 kilometers, in Gasteiz, instead of 100 kilometers, in Burgos, and in the meantime the Basque Government, with this amendment that we have made, will have to be concerned with coordinating the five agencies so that an organic law can be presented in Madrid. So, I end up as I started: we would agree on the substance of the original motion from Bildu, but it seems to us that it is selling utopias, that is, I don't think it can be said at the time when we are saying that the opinion of the Treviñes is the only and indispensable condition for Treviño to be part of Araba. There are five bodies, there are some powers, and, I insist, we are no longer talking about bilaterality, we have many more bodies involved in the matter. And in the meantime, I believe that the two aspects are being fulfilled: by trying to make Treviño the eighth Araba, and also by trying to make the life of the Treviños a much more practical life, much easier and dependent, in terms of services, on the closeness of Gasteiz and not on the distantness of Burgos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u13	Thanks again. I'll read our motion to make it clear that we are the most optimistic of all we are in this camera: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of the Basque Autonomous Community, the Community of Castile and León and the Government of the Spanish State to accept the free and democratically determined will of the citizens of the Treviño enclave. This should therefore be the only condition for the integration of the municipalities of Treviño and Arganzón in Araba and for the decision of their future." I think it's pretty clear. I ask the People's Party what they put in their motion, something so simple: ask for dialogue, respect, collaboration... We're willing to do that, too. Nothing I can't put in your amendment. If you are really in favor of Treviño being Arab, you have a golden opportunity from day 26 in the Senate to be positive and to continue taking steps. To the Socialist Party, nothing new either: responsibility. So simple. Let them do the same here as in Madrid. Another golden opportunity they now have on the table. We ask that: agreement, support and understanding. Agreed... Yes, they agree on everything he puts in, but no steps have been taken. When's he gonna get it? I think it's been many years. I was saying before it's been 25. I think it's not 25: it's only 25 since the Senate approved it. It's 400 since Treviño County exists there, in the middle of Araba. Real policy is to provide quick and effective responses. To Elkarrekin We may want to thank you for the attempts at negotiation... – I was going to say tonight, because it has been so – well, the attempt to reach an agreement, to negotiate, and for its political courage as well, because I believe that in the points that we were willing to negotiate and carry forward, I believe it was brave and take effective steps, and I really thank you very much from our group. And the Basque Nationalist Party, well, it's not that I'm surprised, it's that, honestly, it hurts. We're talking about servicing, but it's because we're not taking steps and we're looking at the finger instead of the horizon. What are we doing services for: not to look at the territorial issue, which would prevent us from continuing to provide services? There would be no need for agreements, nothing would be needed. It would be the eighth law squad, which is what we're asking. Please don't sell smoke. We're not talking about eighth gang to clean the snow roads. That's no use. It's no use. They are in favour of the motion, and then what prevents it from being signed? Are we in favour of the substance of the motion and are we unable to sign it, to be brave and to say that what puts there we also believe and you also believe it? Then why aren't we able to sign it? If you don't mind the opinion of the people living in Treviño, there are only two problems: on the one hand, say it, but say it loud and clear. Say it also on Sunday in the Arab Euskaraz, say it when they go to Treviño to ask for votes. Say it: "It is not the main thing your opinion"; well, then, tell it to you and do not continue to feel dizzy. This is the first thing we have to ask: do not continue to tide with conventions, with agreements, with negotiations, while others debate, decide, speak... But who asked Treviño's citizenship? But if you are the first to say what, how and who you want to live with! It's been 400 years. It's not that this is slow – it's not that this process is slow – it's that this process is not going, it's that this process is not moving forward. We are talking about the 14 or 17 conventions, you said. No, they're cheating on us. I mean, it can't be. We're making agreements that were already being implemented. That's putting on paper something you were doing to say we're doing. Please! Please! The administrations – not just this institution, all of them – have an obligation to listen – something that Treviño does not do –, to facilitate – I believe that neither is done –, to respect – zero –, to accept – zero – and to materialize – much less. They have opportunities in the Senate on the 26th, indeed; in Congress, indeed. Move. The only limit that should be set would be the free choice of treviants and treviants. It's such a simple thing... For our part we will be willing to cooperate, to negotiate, but, of course, to walk, not to stay without doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u14	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. García must not speak. Not even an agent of the Basque Potula team. Basque Socialists... He mustn't speak. And not even the Euncierians, so... [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Madame Lopez de Lariyabe Saez de Maturuna. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 18; the opposites, 46; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u15	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstain, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u16	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 19; white, 0; abstinence, 46.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u17	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the entire correction of Eucabertists and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the opposites, 18; the whites, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u18	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "A proposition like the Parlamentarian team made, about making a report on the state of the Museum of Euskal Mais. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, representing the Potula Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, Counsellor, Counsellor, Good morning again. Well, I will, of course, be brief in this presentation of what has been a unanimous agreement in relation to a non-law proposal concerning the museum situation in Euskadi. Recently this commission had the opportunity to make a visit to the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega, and, of course, there were a number of initiatives stimulated there, there was also an inquiry made to the Minister of Culture in relation to that museum... In the end, the good thing was not to have made a motion on this issue, but to understand that a general reflection on the museum situation was necessary based on the subject of ethnographic museums and their situation, some of them with difficulties and limitations, but to understand that we could seek some agreement in that regard. The visit to Artziniega, the ethnographic museum, gave some keys in relation to this type of museum. Not only is Artziniega, but there are more ethnographic museums in the Basque Country, all of which are of great importance. In the case of Artzinega, but in other cases also, they are museums with a very interesting human dimension. They are very interesting, they are museums to the height of the person, that is, very authentic, besides many of them. They interact as a center of art that they are, but a center of culture that they are, or a center of history that they are, interact with the citizenry, interact with the students, have elements that make the citizenry interact in these spaces so curious or so special, so singular. In addition, there is citizen collaboration, in many cases involved, voluntarily, selflessly involved, in the operation of such cultural initiatives. In the case of the Artziniega Museum the Artea Association, an exemplary association of this civic collaboration and this cultural dynamism. The Ethnographic Association Artea, for so many years managing with volunteers, with altruistic people, this museum in particular, but in other realities there are also issues that have to do with this citizen collaboration. In addition, these museums integrate into the environment, not necessarily of urban city, but rural, an environment of lifestyles of the inhabitants of certain regions of the urban or rural core to which they belong, of the baserri, of the businesses, with characteristics, moreover, fruit of the popular collaboration, of the popular cooperation, of the contribution, of the popular donation, that is to say that they are centers of popular culture and art where besides what is exposed there is an active cultural reality. In addition to that, what I commented earlier, focusing not only on cities, that there are also important and living ethnographic museums and cultural realities in cities, but also on other areas such as rural areas, villages, regions, gangs. Indeed, as was also said in the interpellation, we spoke in that of the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega, but there are more museums, there are more ethnographic museums with such characteristics, or different characteristics in Euskadi, which deserve our attention. The Culture Advisor has already reviewed the issue, we also have the 2016 statistical report, where some of these realities are described, and of course we wanted to work on that path in relation to the agreement and the compromise amendment that we have reached. I would like to thank all the speakers on this issue which has been easy, but in any case it is interesting to reach this agreement on what we can do. And that is why there are six points that we have agreed on. The first of these, a point of recognition of the work that as promoters of culture the museums in Euskadi in general, and in particular the ethnographic museums. We have come to a second point, which is one of the fundamental elements: that the Basque Parliament urge the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Government to strengthen existing channels of collaboration with the outside and local institutions for the maintenance and sustainability of museums, collections and cultural initiatives regulated by Law 7/2006, of museums in Euskadi, which are in difficulty or require new institutional support respecting the existing competitive framework in Euskadi. It is a fundamental element: some of these cultural, historical, artistic realities need new support or new forms of support; for they must be found, and, of course, institutional collaboration is basic. The Basque Government is also urged to review, through the Basque Observatory of Culture and the Advisory Council of Museums – i.e., entities and areas operating in this cultural reality – the report on museums and collections in Euskadi, proposing, where appropriate, new support measures within the call for grants to museums and collections, and to do and publish all this throughout 2019. Also, that the Basque Parliament urge the Department of Culture of the Basque Government – also an important element – to promote the creation of the network of ethnographic museums, which will allow us to work together on problems and establish collaborations. Every day more and more in culture we talk about the network: we have the public reading network, there can be perfectly another type of network, like that of archives, etc. I believe that in this matter too, the new management formulas also make it interesting to create a network of ethnographic museums that will enable these problems to be dealt with. The Basque Parliament recognises EMSIME's work as a networked collective catalogue of the works of art of the Basque museums and urges the Basque Government to make further dissemination of this tool, so that all Basque ethnographic museums can include their funds in it. We recall that EMSIME is a documentary management system that gathers information and images of the cultural properties of museums in the Basque Country, of public and private ownership, and that is where you can consult information about these museums integrated into the system, as well as information about the exhibitions and activities they carry out. That's why it's good that you value that work, that catalog, but also that it is disseminated. Finally, taking into account the diverse nature of the museums and collections of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, commission a study to the Government based on modern museumology and cultural and innovative efforts, with the aim of their implementation. It would be an interesting contribution also from an amending group in relation to which, of course, every day progresses rapidly in what are the exhibition techniques, the museumology, the collections, the cultural efforts, the innovation... That's why it's good that you can study, you can analyze... , we have areas of action in the department, of course, with its experts, in the Basque Observatory of Culture, in the Advisory Council of Museums, but also in the areas that depend on the outside institutions, which also have a lot to say in this regard. That is why we welcome the agreement, we understand that we are also putting the Government to work on an issue on which, of course, it was already working, but in a very organized, very concrete, timely way, and of course we want all this to serve fundamentally so that all these cultural realities with difficulties, or with problems, or that they need certain additional efforts and support, can achieve them. Let's hope that's because it's good for everyone, it's good for culture, for history, for art... In short, for all of us. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Thank you. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u21	Thank you again, Madam President, and good morning again to all the Members of Parliament. It is now up to us to discuss an initiative which, as Mr Barrio, who has already explained to me, has presented to me by the Group of the European People's Party, concerning the preparation of a report by the Basque Government on the museum situation in Euskadi. The museum map in our Community consists of more than 110 museums, and among them we can find ourselves from six of ethnographic character to others dedicated to cider, honey, butterflies, even one of the Ertzaintza, or the most visited, such as the Artium, Guggenheim or the Museum of San Telmo. Museums are spaces... [[Berber]] Thank you. Museums, as I said, are spaces for creation, education and learning. They must be alive and be in constant dialogue with society and with the different actors in the sector, as well as with the people who visit and enjoy them. In addition, from Elkarrekin We understand that the Basque Museum Network needs professionals in the sector and the people who carry out their work around them to do so under decent working conditions and in accordance with the agreements signed. This initiative, as Mr Barrio has well explained, will go ahead with the support of all the forces in this House, and we very much appreciate all the initiatives and measures that serve to strengthen and provide resources to the different museums and centres in our Community. For this reason, it seems important to us to recognize the work carried out by the various museums in Euskadi as promoters of culture, with particular emphasis on the work carried out by ethnographic museums. In order to materialize this recognition, from my political group we believe that inter-agency coordination between the different administrative levels is essential, as well as the strengthening and activation of the tools and channels of collaboration with which the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government is based. In this line, the conduct of a study of the museum situation of Euskadi that takes an accurate photograph and points and centers that need specific help for its maintenance and sustainability as a first step is priority in the field of culture in Euskadi. Both the Basque Observatory for Culture and the Museum Advisory Council must be responsible for undertaking this task and reviewing the report on museums and collections of Euskadi, prepared every two years, together with the Museum Centre of the Cultural Heritage Directorate of the Department of Culture, and must be published – as indicated in the amendment we have agreed – before the end of 2019, proposing, where appropriate, new support measures within the call for grants to museums and collections. However, although we agree with this point – and that is why we have signed the proposal – we have to point out from Elkarrekin that this report is biennial and was made in 2016, so it would have to have been done in 2018, and we are now extending the deadlines that were already set. In addition, the bodies to which we refer (the Advisory Council for Museums and the Basque Observatory for Culture) meet only once a year, and we are concerned about this situation. We believe that this can be a good starting point for reactivating an activity, policies and measures that have to be taken in the field of culture from two bodies that today do not have as much activity as we would like. In addition, the report we are talking about is a descriptive report, which provides figures on the number of museums and collections registered in the Basque Government's register, but in no case is it intended to highlight the lack of institutional support that some museums demand, unless the latter push that I hope will be taken from this initiative gives it another approach, and we would like it to be so, that is to say, to direct the study and report towards a study of underfunding or to the endowment of museums by the administrations. Therefore, we now have the opportunity for this report to be presented in other words and to reflect a reality that could be seen a few weeks ago when the Committee on Culture visited the ethnographic museum. In addition, we understand that in point 5, when we talk about recognising the value of EMSIME as a collective network catalogue of the works of art of the museums of Euskadi and we urge the Basque Government to make a greater dissemination of this tool so that all Basque ethnographic museums can include their funds in the same, we want to make a point and we want EMSIME to extend its responsibility and to ensure that sufficient resources are provided to keep the dissemination and exhibition of the collections in an optimal state. In addition, we understand that the museum centre manages the register of museums and collections and promotes its activities through grants, in addition to coordinating the documentation, management and dissemination of museum funds. It would be more convenient, from our point of view, if that were the case. In addition, the last point talks about diversity and new innovation efforts; it is clear that we have an opportunity, not only to improve the tools of the Basque Government, but to update and implement the innovation already being implemented and implemented in the sector itself by the public administration. So we thank the rest of the groups for their willingness to sign and hope that this will be an opportunity to improve the policies that have been implemented so far. We are going to be vigilant so that the tools that the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government has actually been equipped with will operate in an active and constant way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. I think it is quite clear what the origin was: that visit and the proposal, the question and then Mr Barrio's motion on the unanimous agreement that this Parliament is bringing to us today regarding the museum situation in Euskadi. I will not repeat the will and unanimity that has been shown – and will be seen in all the speeches – that exist among the political forces to manage and optimize this network of museums that we have in Euskadi and in the three territories, and to do so in collaboration with all the institutions involved. For us, museums are finally time machines that allow us to access some deposits of imagination, wisdom, intelligence and emotion, which first had their creator in the first place and then we and we will have them, now and throughout history. In Euskadi we can talk – and I wanted to focus on this – about that network of local museums, a wide network of local museums – the number of museums and collections have already been cited – all of which already have a certain trajectory and already live beyond an initial declaration of intention of their creation. The qualities expressed in the formulations of principles and declarations in the promotion of museums and collections often hide at the outset problematic aspects such as what will finally happen with their funding, management and maintenance, but I believe that, certainly, and therefore, the adoption of measures in terms of inter-institutional collaboration, the creation of this network of museums and collections and the integral and coordinated care of them is precisely what will enable that cultural offer to be maintained. Because when we talk about local museums, about collections, about the plurality that exists and that integrates Basque culture in a time like this, about hybrid and ephemeral identities, we believe that giving institutional support, for example, to our museums, above all, to those who collect and promote our own cultural traditions, is consistent with the responsibility that they attend to and we must attend to Basque institutions. It is possible that local museums, taking care of the orderly management and with the interest of these institutions, do not end up being mere simulations that are taught to tourists, to whom the natives do not attend, but that they are also used and managed in favour of the culture and the formation of Basque citizenship, also for us and ourselves. That is why we defend the value that a network of these well-managed and well-ordered museums and collections, and with an inter-institutional character, can do in favour not only of culture, but also of the formation of Basque citizenship. I would also like to highlight another point of the transaction that was finally carried out, which was the one brought by the EH Bildu group and which has to do with making the reflection of this local network of museums, of all these museums that we have opened and at the service of the citizens in the territory of our country in function or with the glasses of modern museumology, because this will allow us to meet those challenges that are finally presented to us. We must make these museums, which are already attractive because they are related to everything that is part of us and that show part of what we understand as an integral part of our culture and our way of being, acquire dynamism, acquire a fundamental role in the social, cultural and educational spheres, take a critical attitude and empower communication, formation and information about these forums of culture, education and also – how not – memory of what we were, of what we are and what we will be. I thank all those who have made the transaction possible. Mrs de Podemos, Mrs García, could have done more, but I believe that the agreement allows work to continue within those bodies of collaboration that keep the different institutions and that it is necessary to take into account, because it is the best way to organize a country in which there are various institutions with different competences on the subject. I also believe that the new dimension or perspective given to the EMSIME as a catalogue in paragraph 5 is positive and that it has also been provided by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, and I understand that it improves everything that has been done so far in the cultural sphere with regard to the museum offer. I hope that it will not remain in a simple non-law proposal and that we will have the opportunity to see the fruits of all these initiatives. Above all, I insist that the challenges facing culture in the museum field and, above all, in those more local museums and more focused on the cultural identity of the peoples, are very difficult to safeguard if we do not take action at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Lady Beolaza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen. The other proposal as presented by Populous Party today, we have a discussion of the state of Eucharists' museums, which leads us to the point of the interposing of the last control, about the Etnographic Museum of Artiniega, and the interpenetration made round the resources of the Cultur. The museum was born through the initiation of the young Archinie keys, supported and protected by the council. The museum is located in the municipal facility. Later on, art was formed a society, and in years there have been a series of nanhamarks which have already been completed, the identity of the people, and the culture, the inheritance, and the old customs, have been preserved and preserved. This museum is the result of the selfless and altruistic work of the people of the municipality of Artziniega, who have created a museum referring to customs and trades linked mainly to the Ayala Valley, where this museum is located. The museums we have mentioned, especially the zonotographics, retain, and show that this is changing, and that it is absolutely necessary for people, people, and people in their memory, and in the office of memory, we must be involved in the whole society, and take care of them all. Ethnographic museums are a living testimony to our history, and must be a living, transformative, participatory and interactive activity linked to society. The patrimony is property that society decides at every moment to preserve, so that the patrimony that is not known cannot be valued. Hence the importance of local initiatives, such as the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega, arising from a citizens' initiative and emerging in the natural environment, citizens' and associations' initiatives that keep alive the flame that allows the heritage to come alive until today. As has been said, in 2012, there was a visit from the legislature in the year of the year, and this year we returned to the Museum of Arzier. Yes, in 2012, yes, and this year, the art members of the organization complained of financial embarrassments, and we were asked to have a collaboration to ensure the duration of the museum. In the light of this, we must remember that the Museums Act of this Basque Parliament of 2006 regulates the functions and responsibilities of each institution in the field of museum policy. Our compatriot has a complex structure, each stage of the organisation having its own powers and powers, and each has to act in the proper manner. Sometimes they are shared faculties, and the effort is indispensable. In relation to museum policy, competition is a shared responsibility between our three institutional levels (the Basque Government, outlaws of the three territories and municipalities). Such competition between different institutions should not lead to duplication, and the public policies developed should be complementary and not coincidental. Each institution must take responsibility and assume the consequences of the requirements that the law applies to it in its field. In our system of governance, it is the parliaments and the municipalities that assume responsibility for the maintenance of the public or private museum facilities that exist in their field. It is up to the Basque Government to promote programmes to enable museum holders, whether public or private, to develop projects aimed at strengthening the importance and value of the collections, to promote educational or public programmes, in order to facilitate the participation of citizens in their knowledge, and in this area of competence, at each level, their policies must be developed. The Museums Act is very clear in this regard when it states in its article that the Administration will collaborate with the other institutions and administrations in order to promote and improve the museum infrastructure of Euskadi and its funds. This article provides for the annual call for grants to museums, establishing very concrete actions that the Basque Government must economically support through its department: documentation of the collection, updating of the permanent exhibition, temporary exhibitions, educational and cultural activities, research work, editing and translation of scientific content, improvement of the management and impulse of innovation. In short, the law lays the foundations for a coordinated system of museums for Euskadi, with the aim of providing a global regulation, providing Euskadi with modern, coordinated and fully accessible museum infrastructures and services for the whole citizenry, while trying to optimize the resources and means that all public administrations allocate to these museums. And to achieve this optimization, the way is to work in a coordinated way with the rest of the institutions, reinforcing complicity with parliaments and municipalities and deepening shared governance and work together, and optimizing resources – I repeat – and avoiding the existence of duplication in the management of that shared competence, developing complementary and non-coherent public policies. It has already been said before, but we must repeat that Euskadi has a large volume of thematic museums spread throughout our geography; only local museums are of the order of more than 45, to which the Government has allocated a programme of aid with very specific objectives mentioned above. We also have, because of its unique characteristics, the museums such as the Guggenheim and the Fine Arts of Bilbao, the Artium of Vitoria, the Balenciaga Museum of Getaria and the Fundación del Valle Salado de Añana, in which it intervenes in a different way in each of them, according to needs, although participating in the foundations and with special funding. And as can be seen, this exception is given by the relevance of these museums and the drag capacity they have over other activities and the number of attendance at these museums. The bulk of the remaining funds are received from private or social councils or entities that support them with the resources necessary – not always sufficient – for current and operating expenditure, and may in turn go to the aid programmes for specific objectives set out in the Museums Act. And going back to the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega I have to say that throughout his career his presentation to these aids has varied over time. I understand that, as in the rest of the cases, the relations of this association and the municipal corporation should be regularized for the insurance of operating expenses. The maintenance and renovation of a museum in a population such as Artzinega require recognition and encouragement of the activity carried out by the Artea association, which can be implemented with the help of the congress and the presentation to the calls of the Basque Government for the development of educational and educational programs. Finally, I would like to highlight the agreement reached between all the groups. We have had the opportunity to have a shared reflection on how to move forward, and well, Mr Barrio has already taken full account of the points of the compromise amendment, and we will work to get out all the problems that have been mentioned in relation to what is the museum universe of this country. And finally I want to explain why the publication – and this I want to address to Mrs. García Larrimbe –... We note that the publication of the catalogue has to be in 2019 because the last publication was in 2016, and that of 2019 would collect the data for the year 2017 and 2018 as a whole. It is biannual, but the publication is in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Beolaza. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours. Signor ESTARRA ELIZEDOS: Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. I will start with Mrs Betolaza's last words, because it is true that it was an amendment that we had tabled, and I am self-amending, because after doing the same and studying what was the process of drawing up the methodology itself for the statistical report of museums and collections, it is true that it is as you have explained it now, finally; therefore, the date of 2019 has been collected. It is true that I am quite pragmatic in every part of my life, and that I shall be to-day. And in this sense I should like only four elements to be set on the table of this day; especially as you have mentioned above, that you have made a present of the agreement and middle method, but I should like to put a little of the focus on the reason of it; and I think that if we have acquired or obtained an extensive agreement between different groups, it is because we all mean that we share it, that the state of the museums of the Baba, Bizacca, and Gipuzata, is not the best, and that we must set it up so much in motion, and that the agreement itself reflects a little, and the political will is concerned with the agreement which we have acquired, and which we now receive. Bigarren elementu bezala, baita ere, hitz egin egin da Artziniegako Etnografikauren museum inguruan egindako bisitaren harira eta beti, urtero bizi duen egoera della-eta, bainsa uste dut hitz egin beharko genukeela gure herriaren zati honetan (Araban, Bizkaian eta Gipuzkoan) ditugun ethnografia-museoen inguruan, balorean jarri beharrekoak; eta gehiago, behin aztertuta aipatusu den eta Betolaza andreak aipatusu duen Euskadiko museum eta bildumen inform statistikoan jasotzen dena, zeren eta betan jaso agiten da aea ondorioztatu dezakegu that within museums and collections, according to the type and historical territory, both in Gipuzkoa status as in crementan a place is not in Arabia and thirds, the most important, the museum, the places in the museum, the best And not only that, not only for the number of museums, but also for the funds they collect, also in the same report mentions that in the stable museum funds, according to the thematic classification, those that have to do with ethnography and anthropology are located in second position, behind only the museums of natural sciences. Therefore, it is also evident that the museum funds collected by these ethnographic museums are important, as I said, well known in this part of our country. However, it is clear – and I believe that we all agree on this – that they do not correspond to their weight and importance in our network of museums, nor to their use, nor to the visits to such museums and collections, and therefore it seems clear that it is necessary to strengthen them and to provide them with greater means, which goes somewhat along the lines of the issues that have been reflected in the agreement we are dealing with here today. The third element would be the social function of museums. The typology of museums is so diverse and performs functions so differentiated that I believe that they are not the same as those museums that function as a first order tourist claim – and we have several in our country – or those that perform, above all, a function of custody and conservation of funds for their heritage value and that therefore represent a second order offer in the localities where they are located. These, of course, can play a more day-to-day role, the lives of the people in those localities, and I therefore believe that we should also look at the social role that these museums should or could play in this regard. Besides, it's not a thing or a lot of experts that I'm saying about, we've got different jobs from what we're talking about in Europe, but about the working of the Basque Museum's Advocating Committee, we've received from Bario, the different pieces of information from the Board of Advocacy Committee of Counsellation, which, at the last point in May 11th of 2016, is received by the President, the President, the Chief of the Journal, who's chief physician of the Mux. "Es necesari pensar in la form de illegar a un sacario mejor Landordo y más actoria con la philosofia con la se articuló la Ley 7/2006, de Museume Euscadi." And he ends by saying: "It is agreed that the Basque Government with the outlaws will work on this issue together over the next few months, to bring to a new council meeting a document with which the council be able to make a reflection and proposals. That meeting could be held in September of this year." No meeting was held that year in September, but the next meeting of the Euskadi Museum Advisory Council was held in September a year later, but no proposal was made either, in which the Advisory Council had agreed that it was necessary to work together with the rest of the institutions. Nor at the last meeting of the Advisory Council, which dates back to April of this year, has such a proposal been taken, and there is no document. And, therefore, and now to the fourth element that I wanted to put here today, in the debate, is to put a little emphasis in this regard on the second of the proposals that we included in our amendment to the whole, which is the sixth, which has finally been included in the compromise that we have unanimously signed. And I also take this opportunity to thank Mr Barrio for his willingness and the work he has done to reach such a broad and consensual agreement. We talked about that, taking into account the diverse nature of the museums and collections of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, a study based on modern museumology and innovative cultural efforts is commissioned, with the aim of its implementation. Therefore, it seems to us that, qualitatively, this contribution to the transactional that we have arrived at today is very important because, in some way, it places on the government some duties to be able to draw up such a report based on the new museums and innovative forms of cultural management of these museums, which also attend – as I said in the third of the elements that I have put in the debate today – to the social function that some museums can occupy in those places where they are located, because – and to end – in the report of museums and collections, statistics that the Basque Government makes biannually, together with the Basque Observatory of Culture, horretan honako dimentosio hauei buruzko datuak jaso egiten dira, hau da, museo-sarearen ezaugarri orokorrak, azpiegituraren ezaugarriak, eskaintzen dituzten zerbitzuak eta erabilgarri dakipamendua eta sarbidea, information-sarea-sandurakunekulkunea, information, museum etfuranzunetzunetkanek, museum, etuak, etuak These are the elements which this report contains, but we believe that what we receive here and today is beyond that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing the answer shift, the Basque Popular Group doesn't have... Well, from there. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u28	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. Just to thank Mr Estarrona, Mrs García, Mrs Betolaza and Mrs Romero for the willingness, of course, to the agreement. The truth is that the texts of all the amendments in their entirety have been enriching. Each of the proposals has brought something interesting, which we have been able to reflect in the content of the compromise amendment adopted unanimously and signed by all. Of course – someone has said this – this is an initiative that can be – hopefully it will be – a tractor of activity, of museum activity, but above all of cultural activity. I think it's a good opportunity. In the six points that we have approved there are many things that have to be done and developed, indeed, some of them, such as giving more content to the activity, surely, of the Advisory Council of Museums or of the Observatory of Culture itself. But, in that sense, I believe that it is a positive element that the Government will take it - we have no doubt - seriously, we will be looking, of course, at how it is going to develop, but there are issues that are of great importance, such as the required reports and the formation of that network of ethnographic museums, which I believe can be very modernizing, which can, of course, improve the situation of these museums and which can, of course, take measures to enlarge our culture. Let's hope so, we'll see. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anybody else want to take the word? Anyone else? I'll ring the bell. [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, together with Podemos, EHG, Eukal Sozialists, and the Eascan patriots, the middle-line correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u30	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Forth point on the theme list: "Phum up the propose as the parliamentary teams made, about the creation of the Earth for the Economics of Activity, and the planning of the Great Skipters on the planet of the Arlo. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova has the word to introduce and defend the initiative. And quiet, all of you, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u31	They say that back in the 1960s, in the middle of the Franco regime, one of those spontaneous demonstrations that the regime promoted when it wanted to cover some internal matter was formed in front of the British embassy. The motto, as it could not be another, was that of "Let Gibraltar give us back!". And while there were hundreds of people shouting to the British ambassador, "Let Gibraltar give us back!", "May Gibraltar return to us!", says the political legend that the Minister of the Interior on duty telephoned the ambassador and said, "Hey, Mr. Ambassador, do you want me to send you more police?", and the ambassador, with the corresponding British phlegm, replied, "No, I'm satisfied that he doesn't send me more protesters." I believe that something similar must be thought of by the traders in this country when the Basque Government came to offer their help, that is, "Help is fine, but I am satisfied that you do not harm us any more", because, really, the issues we are going to deal with today are two issues on which, unfortunately, the action of the Basque Government or the omission of the Basque Government towards the trade sector are creating problems, rather than solving them. These two themes are, on the one hand, the Territorial Sectoral Soil Creation Plan for Commercial Equipment, a topic that is not new, but that we hope that today has a turning point; and the second are the orders that regulate aids and programs to promote the trade sector. We believe in these two matters, as I said before, that the government's position has not been adequate, and by a proposition which will be here today, we believe we will make a contribution to direct the direction and make a really constructive contribution to the sector. The plan of Arlo, or the theme of the Sectorial Plan, is not new... Please, shut up! This subject is not new, when the Supreme Court of Spain gave a verdict in September 2015, leaving several articles of this planet in the land Arlo. What the Supreme Court did at that moment was supposed to be that the main instrument which was to regulate this sector was suspended, so that a door was left open in any way, and without any limit to the new trading stations. It is well to consider what is said in the sentence of the Supreme, because it does not exclude that regulation cannot be made, or that restrictions cannot be made. He says the criteria of the Plan of the Arloth Land were not adequate, and they collided with what the European law ordains. The suffrage tells us very clearly what reasons are, and why they cannot be used, and what is a new plan in the country to rebuild the course of the journey, which may be supported in European laws, and which may be the same ends as the former plan. The Supreme Court recognizes that among the acceptable reasons for establishing restrictions on the establishment of new major shopping centres are those relating to the protection of the environment and the urban environment, including urban and rural planning. We cannot use any other kind of criteria that may contravene the European Services Directive, the famous Bolkestein Directive, which regulates the free provision of services within the European Union. And what the Supreme comes to tell us is that precisely the criteria used in the sectoral territorial plan set as their objective limitations for a territorial division between the different brands, as well as to encourage the establishment of smaller commercial establishments. This is what is not accepted. No reasons of general interest are considered and the sectoral territorial plan is therefore annulled. It adds a new issue, namely that restrictions on the deployment of commercial equipment should be sufficiently motivated by the law establishing them. And the sectoral territorial plan, because it does not belong to the rank of law, questions the possibility that this sectoral territorial plan, per se He tells us in the same way, if we want to do this again, which way we must deal with. And it is not only the supreme, but also the Tribunal Justice of Europe has said that it is possible in so many judgments to regulate and to reduce the great trades, if these reasons of general interest are used. This is precisely what we demand to-day: we demand to make a new plan. We know that the transition is already in progress, but what we demand is that we put a time to this transmation, and that it is the shortest term that the law allows. We know that the procedures of the submarine levels are long and complex, and we know that some deadlines and a procedure must be respected, but what we want governments to tell us clearly what it is to use the shortest possible time when we fix that calendar and calendar. We want, too, to begin with the illumination, and we want the government to make clear that in the progress with which it is found, that this must not be the end of that plan, which the whole sector proclaims to be the end of this plan, that it is the re-establishments of force in 2004. And we want something very important: so long as the plan is not tested, the establishment of a mortatoria is not allowed to set large trading areas. We said it was important in his day. When we first recognised the sentence of the Supreme expression, the door opened in an indiscreet way for the great trading stations, from which several projects could be colonized. Now, unfortunately, time has given us reason. I'll show you only the new implants that are planned at the moment in the gym. [[Show a paper]] Black points are the big trading stations already existing, the red ones I repeat, and this is just the state of the Gipus that are signaled for new license requests and requests to be provided for, or requests for the approximation of the new departments. We can't accept this. They want to double the surface of the great trading stations on the west of Gipuz, and we have tools to avoid it, and it is a mortar. Moratoria can be twice: On the one hand, the legal system, while the Ubanistic plans are compromised, is because it is legal to establish morphics; and on the other hand we want political moratry, because it is impossible that the plans of law and territory should not be made in force. But in all these places, there is, at least, another political decision: In these countries, and in these townships, some of the same parts maintain this government, because the Socialist Party and the Party Nacionists are making steps to change the local legislation, to change subsidies and general plans, to possess it. Then you must have two factors: On the one hand, the plan of land is not to be made, and on the other hand, to change local regulations in order to make this possible. And we have to cut these two paths. We've got to establish a legal Moratorian. And on the other hand, we believe that we must all show our commitment to prevent legal alterations in the townships in order not to be possible. We said that the reasons that are accepted in legal terms to establish limitations on the establishment of new large shopping malls must be reasons of general interest related to the environment, social rights or land management. That the promotion of a particular branch of trade or of a particular sector, or of a particular sector, cannot be included as an express objective of these regulations, cannot be done. But with reasons of weight, urban planning and spatial planning, in order to establish these restrictions on the establishment of new shopping centres, it is clear that they would also produce, as a desirable side effect, greater protection for the small trade sector, which we believe actually requires such protection. It requires such protection because we consider that in addition to developing an ordinary economic activity it represents a plus: a plus for society, a plus for the urban management model, a plus for social relations, a plus, in short, which must be protected and not attacked by the public authorities. We oppose the indiscriminate proliferation of large shopping centres to protect natural spaces and fight for less dense urban territory. To prevent the construction of new roads, roundabouts and infrastructure, which involve economic expenditure and also greater occupation of the territory. To limit travel by car, for obvious environmental reasons. To maintain the current balance between large establishments and local trade, because we do not promote the disappearance of large commercial establishments, of large centres, which also have a specialized supply for which there is demand, but we believe that this demand is currently satisfied with the current model and with the current distribution, and therefore what we want is that this balance does not break in favour of large commercial centres. And we also want to make it possible for the existence and survival of a proximity trade, which provides services to people who cannot or do not want to move by car and who, after the progressive disappearance of the small trade, have become increasingly difficult to access to the purchase of commodities. Large shopping centers – and less the indiscriminate proliferation of them – do not benefit the economy or society, because with the lure of creating I don't know how many jobs they end up destroying many more jobs in the small business sector. Trade demand is not an elastic demand that automatically responds to a multiplication of supply: it is not going to be bought anymore because there are larger malls, nor is it going to boost trade. If there is to be greater consumption, if the trade sector is to be revived, what needs to be done is to improve the purchasing power of wages and pensions, and there will be an increase in all sectors of trade, both large and small. But the indiscriminate supply of new shopping malls that are on the table, as pointed out and shown in the previous graph, will not generate an equivalent multiplication of demand, and therefore will first destroy a large part of the small trade, and then also make some of these shopping malls not viable, because that doubling of the supply we are talking about in the area of Donostialdea, for example, is also impossible from the point of view of economic sustainability and benefits. Cities will also lose their lives, and much more the suburbs, neighborhoods and villages. And it must not be forgotten that behind these shopping centres there are often operations of a purely urbanistic nature. The whole, the whole of the major commercial centres of the Basque Autonomous Community are owned by large foreign multinational companies, which also tax outside this country and face business not as a way of contributing to the trade sector, but simply as pure speculative real estate operations. We must defend the small trade, if we want living streets, if we want variety in the commercial offer, in order to avoid uniformization, in order to prevent all nations from being clonicic and equal, with the same shops, with the same figures; because there is a special employment in the small trade, because there is a narrow motion in the streets, where there is no security for those who have twelve quarters of the night; because it encourages the close economy of the nearest economy, because it increases the connection between the suppliers and producers, because it makes the commercial economy a shorter circle, and also makes it secure in the cities, because the living streets are more crowded, because the windows are more secure, because there are not the same in the streets, because there are twelve places of security, and the same life is not the same. There are many reasons for defending the small trade against the threat that is now on the table, and we want it, and we believe that if it be fulfilled we will advance for the little trade. And one last question that I am not going to focus on now – then I will, in the second intervention – is the question of the orders that regulate trade support programmes, orders whose leitmotiv It may be necessary to reflect on the associative model, of course it is necessary to reflect on how trade must meet the new challenges, the challenges of a changing society, in which new consumption habits and new technologies are incorporated, but that reflection, that work, must be done not against the existing associationism but together with that associationism. It is likely, as I said, that such a reflection is urgent, but such a reflection must be a shared reflection. We do not understand that the regulatory orders of this year eliminate those aspects that favored associationism and that make those associations and groups that are struggling in a bold and highly meritorious way for the survival of small trade able to have a number of resources to help them improve their work. It is not going in the right direction with the attitude of this Government. This is not the first time, and we have also seen it through Ikusmer's decree, and let us hope that this proposal which is going to come forward today will serve as a focus, a reflection for the Government to, of course, put its batteries in these two areas. We need a new sectoral territorial plan, a plan that restricts the implementation of new areas, which is presented to us with a definite timetable for its completion, and we need a moratorium on the implementation of commercial areas until this plan comes into force. We need to change the Commercial Activity Act in order to strengthen the scope of this sectoral territorial plan and better adapt it to the requirements of European legislation and to the conditions laid down by the Supreme Court itself. And we also need a government closer to associations, a government that facilitates...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u32	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u33	... and promotes associationism and does not aim to restrict or limit the few aid and the few elements with which the government, from public institutions, supports a vital sector such as that of small trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. In this gathering of the whole of the whole time, we discuss another proposal about the planet of the Landland to create the Earth for Economic Activity, and to organize the Great Skippers. I would like to begin by recalling that more than two years have passed since the Governing Council adopted in March 2016 the agreement to initiate the review of the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Economic Activities and Commercial Equipment, pursuant to the Supreme Court ruling of 3 September 2015, which declared null and void the determinations imposing limitations on the maximum area for commercial equipment. In order to complete the sentence, M. M. M.M. left the limit to the court, that is to say, that the department should have at most 25,000 quadrangles. The government ordained that it would be a new manufacturing plan to direct the issue, but it's delayed again and again. Meanwhile opportunities have been taken advantage of, and the demands of increasing commerce have been increased. The representatives of the little clerks are particularly concerned about what's going on in the Gipuke. There's a plan for expanding the Usurbilian Usurbiles, and a buggy project in the sand. They'd all be allowed, they'd have more than 200,000 meters of quadrangles. Now there are 80,000 square meters built. They're data to shake, and besides, the shopkeepers tell us that the change of EAJ and PSE are getting faster. This is a serious situation. Small trade is said to be recognized and valued, but the passivity, slowness in legislating and, on the other hand, the supposed haste in requalifications contrasts with these declarations of the parties that support the Government. I insist, we have been without any legal limit for more than two years to restrict the opening and expansion of large commercial establishments, thus implying legal uncertainty. Unfortunately, as is often the case, the Executive responds to us with an amendment to the whole without any time limit. But what is more worrying: it is a mere calc of the agreement adopted by the Basque Government in March 2016, more than two years ago. Of course, our parliamentary group is seeking to reach a consensus sooner rather than later on the need to regulate and establish restrictions on large commercial areas, but we agree with 100% of the trade associations that the right path and the one that will give true legal certainty is to amend Article 13 of the Basque Commercial Act. And this is also understood by the Supreme Court in its judgment, on the basis – and I read textually – that "Law 17/2009 further requires that restrictions on the implementation of commercial equipment must be sufficiently justified in the law that establishes them, obligations or requirements both that are not met in the territorial sectorial plan, since it neither has the status of law nor sufficiently justifies compliance with the conditions of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality". The Supreme Court declared that it was not possible to limit the department to small shops. Nevertheless, the sentence stated that the bounds based on the general interest may be legitimate, as well as connected with the environment and the arrangement of the country. Thus, the Supreme Court's ruling shows that the nullity of the law is more due to a defect of form than of substance, that is, the opening of large commercial centres cannot be limited by economic reasons, but in substance it can be limited by ecological reasons or spatial planning, and, better, it marks the way to continue drawing two conclusions: the first, that the grounds should be established in a legislative text with a legal rank; and the second, which, as the Supreme Court indicates, the sectoral territorial plan is not the appropriate legal instrument for establishing such a regime. Therefore, there is one thing that is clear: if section 13 of the Commercial Activity Act is not amended, this remains as a mere declaration of intentions, of words more or less beautiful but empty of content. And that's what we're asking the government today, but given the circumstances, unfortunately, we don't have the elements to trust in the executive. The Euscal store, to adapt to the article mentioned, introduced us to the legal routine last week. We'll soon present this proposal to change the law. The project, which is formed by a strong judge of argument, has a definite purpose, namely, to obtain the consent of a year in the manufacturing plan of the country, without breaking the laws of Europe or of the State. The process of planning the change may last a few months, of course. Knowing this, the representatives of the petty traders have asked us to cut off the licenses for new licenses during the course of the transfer. You know, we know that last January, you know, "Munk" published a number of primary guidelines for the new cultural estate plan. In these he expressed the wish to maintain the prohibition of the great markets, but opened the door to the opportunity of increasing the commercial stations which are built. The constant retrograde of the document has spread bad suspicions in the sector: they are afraid that it is structured for the benefit of the great shops. And when we see the signs, we ask: can the little shopkeepers be quiet? And as I said, I have to thank the groups that have agreed to our compromise amendment, the People's Party and EH Bildu, with Mr Casanova and Mrs López de Ocariz, because we have met on several occasions with the associations of traders and they are really concerned, and we send them that concern, that concern to defend their job. We know that small business generates life, generates life – where? In the villages– and that it is not necessary to build many more shopping centers and, of course, that we need legal certainty. And legal certainty we need through the law, that amendment to section 13 of the Business Act. And it is they who have really provided us with much of the documentation and it is they themselves who have proposed to us to make an amendment to the Act on Commercial Activity. Therefore, as I was saying, we will soon register a change in the law, because we think they are in their perfect right, they are defending their job, and we, what we have to do is try to solve a problem that seems to be blocked or blocked. I do not know what the channels of communication are, but they, at least, have expressed to us that there is apparently no intention of reaching a viable solution between the two sides. We therefore refer you to the fact that we have agreed from the opposition on this compromise amendment. And again, I thank the groups that have participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u37	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We have already said this on other occasions, but we repeat it and we will repeat it as many times as necessary: commercial activity is a determining factor in the birth and development of cities and urban centres in the Autonomous Community. Urban trade is a basic element of our model of social life, it is an irreplaceable animator of cities, it drives local economies, it favors social relations and empowers citizen life. The trade sector represents a strategic sector in Euskadi, contributing 13.68 % of GDP in the Basque Autonomous Community. Traders work hard to attract and retain an increasingly demanding, mature and informed consumer. Private activity that raises every day the blind of your business to carry out your activity. The reason for proximity that for so many years marked the choice of one place or another to buy is no longer just a physical proximity, it is a proximity of opportunity, because today we can buy anything at any time, and this is an unstoppable change. Physical establishments will continue to play a major role, but to compete with large platforms they will need to look for new formulas to make the lives of customers easier and more comfortable, offer new added value elements and complement the traditional establishment, for example, with digital applications. And everyone, from the smallest trade to the largest company, faces the challenge of innovation to move forward. Innovating means being very aware of at least three issues: first, that supply must be continuously adapted to an increasingly demanding demand; second, that quality must be the goal; and third, that new technologies, new platforms, in which the Internet has an undoubted competitive advantage, must be used to the fullest. And in this task, we all play a fundamental role. We must be able to promote innovative strategies, improve the logistics of our commercial sector and welcome the digital revolution in time. Two major industrial revolutions have taken place in the last two centuries: the steam machine, 200 years ago, and that of electricity, 100 years ago. And we are faced with the digital revolution, which offers us new opportunities and to which we must rise, and especially trade. On the other hand, we are faced with a trend back from commercial sales to urban environments. Proximity commercial dynamism actions are proposed, especially in urban areas with low commercial density, seeking to guarantee minimum commercial endowments in our towns and cities, in which associative groups are those that are close to commercial entrepreneurship, being the best channels that can be counted on to capillaryize the different commercial development policies. From the People's Group we have always shaped our interest in strengthening the retail trade sector. Some exercises we've had a chance and others we haven't. Lately, in 2017 and 2018, and before the Budgets Act, we have tabled amendments increasing, in the case of the 2018 Budget, by 16,5 % the budget of the Directorate of Commerce. Increase of the Hirigune games, so that – and as a shock measure – the merchant associations could have more funds to activate the commercial fabric of their municipalities, especially in the neighborhoods, and always under the prism of public-private collaboration. Increased funding to increase the number of technical offices for commercial dynamism and to subsidise the management costs of partnerships with offices, as they have to cover all trade in their area of action. In addition, various conventions for the modernization of the sector. However, and by obviating due respect for this Parliament, the Basque Government has released trade aid orders which change the pre-existing wording of these orders with the clear and sole objective of harming merchant associations and causing budgets approved by this Parliament and with the support of the vast majority of Basque associations to change in such a way that they turn against associationism. Thus, in the Hirigune programme, despite the fact that it was envisaged and approved in the Budgets that all the beneficiaries of the programme receive the same subsidy of 100% of the taxable base, the draft proposes funding of 80% and changes the wording of the pre-existing order, which removes from the text of the order the assessment that existed for the allocation of the surplus funds. Making what Parliament had approved impossible is the aim of the amendments. With regard to technical offices for commercial dynamism, the draft contains two substantial changes: the appropriation approved for this year allowed 42 offices to be maintained at 100 per cent; the draft order proposes only 39 offices, which are subsidized at 100 per cent. 85 %; new entities that have not so far been beneficiaries are allowed to host such offices, such as chambers of commerce, municipalities and development agencies. These two changes involve a reduction in resources for the associations that are involved in the sector, in favour of public entities whose relationship with the sector, given its nature, is more institutional and distant, and not sectoral. Ladies and gentlemen, offices, as I said, for chambers of commerce, municipalities and development agencies, which have never had a contact of action and implementation of projects around the urban retail trade sector. With regard to the Modernisation and business structures programme, the order is changed, reducing by 80% (from five to one) the assessment of associationism – being associated here penalizes a 80 %–. Associationism is discouraged and the associative tissue is weakened. As for training, it is a dynamic sector in which changes occur daily and it is difficult to maintain the degree of adaptation necessary to be competitive, and that is why it is essential to be trained in different disciplines. That is why it is not understood that the Government eliminates resources to improve the training of this business sector, the trade sector. Outreach programs can be re-adapted, but never removed. Instead, what do you propose? Well, a new programme on entrepreneurs in pilot plans with municipalities is proposed, 1,247,000 euros for this, which is not known what it is, and for companies 1,000,000 euros, which will be selected by the department. They do not hide, they say it clearly: "We choose with whom and for what", but then there is nothing. What they do do is to remove it from the items that go directly to the commercial sector. Program unknown by the municipalities, by the urban managements. Ladies and gentlemen, what is under these 2,247,000 euros? Of course, trade is not here, at least it is not visible, because there is no text to clarify these headings. All of these changes imply that the funds of trade go to posts of the municipalities, agencies and chambers of commerce, as well as to companies that the Government determines. And what do you intend to do? To control the sector, combining associationism, to make policy with the resources that the Budget Act allocates to the retail sector, to its formation and to its adaptation to the digital revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have on the table, and the implementation or what the Government proposes for the trade sector: reducing what was adopted in this House in the Budgets Act. That is what is reflected in the fifth and sixth points of the compromise amendment. But, moreover, from the People's Group, and in accordance with the amendment that we have adopted by the three groups (with EH Bildu and Podemos), we ask – because we believe it and because we are obliged to comply with the judgment – we need to amend the law, as the judgment says, to make a sectoral territorial plan that is legal. We also call for the establishment of a way of communicating transparency and work with representatives of the trade sector in the Basque Country to move forward in the modification of the PTS of commercial equipment, because that is basic, because these modifications and this planning must be done with the sector, not against the sector, and because in this department, especially – in particular – the proceedings against the commercial sector are directed. I do not know what the commercial sector has done to you, but frankly it is regrettable that action is being taken. There's no fluid relationship, and the ones there are humiliation. And I say so and I think I am right, and there are representatives of the commercial sector, of associations, and they are humiliated. Also other agents related to this department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u38	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u39	Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u41	Egun on. Welcome to the visitors who are with us today from the trade sector. Let's see. To start with what the proposer of the initiative, Mr Casanova, was bringing us here, he said that today there was going to be a turning point with regard to the PTS issue, and not, Mr Casanova, the turning point began to be given on 17 March 2016, when you lost the initiative you were putting forward here with regard to the PTS, because each and every one of the proposals you made on 17 March 2016 was rejected. Point of inflection was the answer given by the Environmental, Territorial Planning and Housing Advisor to the question you asked him in February 2017. That did begin the turning point, and in that answer he told him how the department was working on the subject of the revision of the STP, how the forward document for the revision of the Sectoral Territorial Plan was going to be, and what the guidelines and times were going to be, and how the information and exposure would be given to the public, and when that information would be temporarily finalized to the public, and when the conclusions would be intended. That was a turning point, not what you're saying and doing here today, Mr. Casanova. Look, I don't agree with what you say about a legal moratorium and a political moratorium. I'm a little, at last, saturated to start hearing about the nouns. I say this because, as I have also started to hear about the subject of the political concert, rather than economic, so now a political moratorium on me would chirrate me. You say that it is to prevent the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party from continuing to take steps to enable commercial equipment. How nice it is "I sell advice, but I don't have it for me." And I'm talking to you about Oiartzun, Usurbil, Mr. Izagirre's legislature at the City Hall of San Sebastián with the centers of Rekalde, Ilumbe... Anyway, to boredom we also have examples. Look, the Socialists – and you will not deny it to me – have intended to make a possible compromise with you, and I sent it to you yesterday by mail, as a proponent who had the initiative on the sectoral territorial plan, so that we understood that it was necessary for Parliament to express as essential the regulation of the distribution of the commercial offer in order to achieve an adequate spatial planning, to carry out a correct planning of transport and infrastructure, to protect the environment, to organize the spaces of economic activities well, to ensure the accessibility of the whole population to commercial establishments and to revitalize the urban fabric. We proposed to you, Mr Casanova, to urge the Government to complete as soon as possible the processing of the new sectoral territorial plan for the public creation of land for economic activities and the management of large commercial establishments, resolving – which is the mother of the lamb – the fit of the regulation of commercial equipment with European Union law, with the Bolkestein directive, which prevents and has made null and void the economic and commercial criteria that so far prevailed in that agreement, in that consensus that existed in the sectoral territorial plan of 2004. We intended yesterday, Mr Casanova, to offer him a compromise, that the Basque Parliament should urge the Government to review the sectoral land-use plan for economic activities and commercial equipment by giving this legal link and giving legal certainty to the consensus reached in 2004 on the need to regulate and establish restrictions on large commercial areas. We wanted, Mr Casanova, in my proposal to you yesterday, for the Basque Parliament to recognise once again and to value small trade for its contribution in economic and employment terms, as well as for its contribution as an element of dynamism and social cohesion in our towns and cities. Because not only do we believe this, we have not only put black and white in the government programme, in the budget programme, but we practice it and do it with the day-to-day dialogue of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, in the dialogue from its Directorate of Commerce with the entities and associations of the whole commercial sector, of the whole commercial sector, which is not only an important part of associationism, but the commercial sector involves many more actors than the associations that are currently regulating or at least intervening in what is retail trade. And we also wanted, Mr. Casanova, in the transaction we offered yesterday, for the Basque Parliament to urge the Government from the Department of Territory Planning and also from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption to maintain a transparent and working channel of communication with the institutional and trade sector representatives of the Basque Country regarding this evolution of the work on the revision of the sectoral territorial plan. Because we don't start from a kilometre 0, we don't start from the fact that we've dropped a sentence on it and it turns out that we have to start reviewing the plan now. The plan has been reviewed for some time and the plan has also been in progress; therefore, we thought that it was necessary to make this clear, only that you have not met our negotiating requirements. And we also told him that the revision of the sectoral territorial plan for large commercial centres is based on a double premise: first, the existence of a consensus reached in 2004 on the need to regulate and impose restrictions on large commercial areas, fully in force with the sustainable development objectives that exist today, only that some criteria, such as economics and trades, have fallen or have been declared null and void by the issue of the implementation of the Bolkestein Directive, but, nevertheless, these work on the revision of the sectoral territorial plan continues with that premise of the existence of that consensus, which is what is intended to be maintained; and, also, another of the premises is the legal and jurisprudence requirement to guide sectoral territorial planning towards that objective of exclusively addressing environmental and/or land management reasons for sustainable criteria. The revision of the territorial planning guidelines, which is also important here, is in line with that revision of the sectoral territorial plan. With regard to the amendment to Article 13 of the Commercial Activity Act that you put forward in that transaction that you have brought us here today, you are justified and justified in strengthening the legal security of the PTS, and we do not think that this is the most appropriate formulation, because the security of the PTS is clearly and expressly expressed in the paragraph in which the Commercial Activity Act links the establishment of large commercial establishments with the regulation contained in that own sectoral territorial plan. It is also defined in the PTS of commercial equipment, in article 13 of the Law, for greater legal certainty, that this is an instrument – the PTS – of territorial planning defining urban planning of the implementation of large commercial equipment in the context of the Autonomous Community. The Commercial Activity Act provides for and sets out criteria of proportionality and adequacy to the implementation of commercial use in relation to the urban environment, mobility, the impact on urban management and environmental respect of the territorial scope in which it is intended to be implemented, and these criteria are adjusted for the time being to ensure commercial activity itself, also to achieve the sustainability of such commercial activity and also to ensure the necessary balance between proximity trade and the large commercial areas that you have also commented on earlier, Mr Casanova. Look, say those who make the proposal to amend the article, the Euskal Dendak platform, that this proposal involves overcoming the regulatory framework currently available to the PTS with regard to commercial equipment, because it is considered insufficient for the correct urban and territorial management of retail activity. And I say, with the same legitimacy as that platform says, that the 2004 PTS – the sectoral territorial plan – by regulating the large shopping centres was based on two objectives that at the time of its formulation were consubstantial and substantial and in addition both were of public interest: one objective is to clarify the balance between large, medium and small trade, and it is the basic reason contemplated in the expository part of that plan; therefore, in the urban planning that corresponds to the PTS the legal certainty of the balance between commercial models is raised, and therefore it is not understood necessary to overcome this regulation through the amendment of the Act on Commercial Activity. And I would not ensure here, as others can do the same – I say – I would not ensure that the revision of the sectoral territorial plan will not in the future lead to an amendment of the Commercial Activity Act, and perhaps not in the whole of Article 13, or the same in the whole of Article 13 and in some other article of the Commercial Activity Act, or it could even lead to some legal amendment that has nothing to do with the Commercial Activity Act. Therefore, there are still many incognites until they are taking steps and solving, as I say, this issue based on the legal fit. And since I have practically no time left – then I will comment on it in the second round with regard to trade associations – I would like to say that both the Basque Government and the Basque Socialists have been supporting associationism for a long time. I have done so in this House, and the Minutes and the Journal of Sessions can prove it. Our contact is continuous with entities and associations. The fact that there are some discrepancies cannot be a reason for you to strike, in what areas of radicality, to say that the Government is against the associationism of small trade. Hey, but what do you think we're doing here? What do we do to throw down the activities of associationism? Then I explain it to you, in the second round, because I have, for each of the points that you have commented on in your compromise amendment, I have the explanation. And besides, it's not demagogic or populist, it's about telling the truth about what there is and what the future is. But that's what I'm warning you, these issues haven't gotten you off your sleeve...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u42	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u43	Yeah, I'll be done in ten seconds. This issue of aid orders has not been taken out of hand by the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. They are explained in the strategic lines, when you had the appearance in this Parliament of your department; they are explained in the Budgets, Mrs Mari Carmen López de Ocariz, in the Budgets, you read the budgetary memoirs and you will see there where and why those orders and aids have changed. And they are also in the government program that we have signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialists, we also support the government as a party, and that explains why we support the commercial sector as well as the entities and associations. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX I think Mrs. Łódź said it and said it right, and it's an idea I want to confirm today. We have always given small stalls a value and a great value, which, I believe, has been pronounced more than once by this Chamber, and has insisted on it. After all, because of his economic significance, his influence on the job, but also because he contributes, no doubt, as an element for the social cohesion and dynamization of our peoples. For us too, I believe that we accept this with one mouth, or say that we must find a point of equilibrium between the great stalls and the small, especially now, especially the customers, the consumers, and the new ways of buying them. But there are other factors, and Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, I believe that she has mentioned them in a very proper manner, which are very closely related to the future of the little stalls, such as the economic crisis which we have lived in very near the past, for instance: the consumers have seen their income and their resources touched, and this has produced a direct effect on the stalls, and especially in the little stalls. Even today, though that is a very cymviral factor, for example, weather: a good planning, and especially for those who sell clothes, shoes, and shoes, and the rest of their shoes, they feel obliged to make a proper planning. But there are also more efficient factors: a digital modification or revolution, as Mme. de Ocariz has said, new ways of buying contact with the internet and, after all, consumers and buyers. There are a few shops now open from the Internet for 24 hours and in 365 days of the year, and in front of it small stalls, cities stores, shops in our neighborhoods, must adapt to the constant process of adaptation, quality, singularity, client's wishes, especially to fill or satisfy them. Corcuera andreak aipatu dueen bezala, guk erdibideko proposeen bat genuine eskaini, eta proposeen horretan ikus dezakegu lehendabiziko Puntuan Euskal Herria Bildu, Podemos étadu Partido Popularraren partitik hartu egin her. Puntu horretan esaten genuen "Parliament considers it essential to regulate the territorial distribution of the commercial offer in order, among other things, to achieve proper spatial planning, to carry out proper planning of transport and infrastructure, to protect the environment, to organize the spaces for economic activities in a balanced way, to ensure the accessibility of the whole population to commercial establishments and to revitalize the urban fabric". Nik you had horretan was ados gaudela helburu bezala, éta hori jada gauza inportante bat da. I am not going to insist on the other points, because you have already pointed them out and made them clear by Mrs Corcuera, but, of course, with regard to the PTS, we are calling for swift processing to be completed as soon as possible, in order to resolve – as Mrs Corcuera said – the Gordian knot of this whole issue, which is the fit of the regulation of commercial equipment in European Union law, to give a legal and legal fit – which is very important – to the consensus reached in 2004 on the need to regulate and set limits. Regulate and set limits – that is the idea – to large commercial areas, in order to achieve what I said before this necessary and indispensable balance between large commercial centres and urban trade. Therefore, we in relation to that first point have no problem. Not in the second one either. Setting a timetable within three months does not seem to us to be a complicated thing either, insofar as we too do advocate – and it is the will of the Government itself – going as fast as possible, but also on stable, solid and secure legal and legal bases in the approval of the PTS, and in that sense, we do not have any problems either. The European Union's precepts and, more specifically, the Services Directive of 2006 were in line with its Article 4.8. I think it is a bit what the second part of point two of the transaction of the People's Party, of Elkarrekin Podemos and of EH Bildu comes to point out. It refers to the Supreme Court and its judgment of 3 September 2015, and then refers to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which does not know whether there should be a better reference to Article 4.8 of the Services Directive of 2006, which actually speaks of compelling reasons of general interest such as spatial planning, environmental protection, consumer protection, the protection of artistic and cultural heritage..., that this can be done when regulating the establishment of large shopping centres and economic activities, in general, provided that they do not imply or conceal economic planning. With regard to point three, I think Mrs Corcuera has explained it well. We, of course, reiterate once again the need to amend the PTS; what we have are many legal doubts about the order of amendment of the different texts. In other words, we believe that in the beginning it is necessary to amend the PTS, and then then to amend the Commercial Activity Act. We have legal doubts about what we are being asked, and that is why we have our serious reservations with that point three, well. With regard to point four, of course, to establish a moratorium, I believe that from the legal point of view it is extraordinarily complicated, and also from the political point of view; it must be borne in mind that the Government, when issuing its report, which is mandatory, which is not binding but is mandatory when granting licences for the establishment of new shopping malls, has a deadline, and has a two-month deadline, so that the Government could not, in a deliberate and conscious way, delay the – I believe – in short, the amendment of the PTS and also of the Commercial Activity Act. There was talk of consensus. We are in the consensus, Mrs Zabala, we are in the consensus. What happens is that in order to try to reach consensus we have to be called, and we have not been called. It was we who, once again, had to take the initiative. And, I don't know, it's attitudes. –of course – respectable, legitimate, they are political positions, which gives me the impression that they translate into that of "Once I know that the government is going to lose, I don't bother talking to the government". It is not our attitude, of the parliamentary group, I think it has never been. And, well, we have also met with the sector, but we have not met with you and we have not spoken with you; and, of course, we already assume that there is no possibility of agreement, for man, before very clear evidence can be, but I think it is closing to open a window of opportunity to try to reach an agreement. And to maintain prejudices without consulting, without speaking, in the sense of saying "Well, there is no chance of reaching any agreement", I think it is a rather conservative and immobile attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. It's the turn to respond, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u46	I will start with this last question which Mr Uribe-Etxeberria was now asking us and which Mrs Corcuera also raised in her presentation, that of the dialogue process. In this motion or this non-legislative proposal, a number of paragraphs have been incorporated into the original text relating to the orders and regulatory decrees of those orders, which in some way entailed an amendment to the totality of the Government's action and which we understood were in no way to be supported by the parties supporting the Government, because they did mean that the plan was actually amended to the Government itself. That is why we have not even offered to sign it, because we understood that it was absolutely impossible for the parties that are supporting this Government to now make a complete amendment to an action by that Government. But, of course, at the time when the transaction was closed, matters relating to the drafting of the transaction were being negotiated until the last moment, we made it known, and we also warned them beforehand that new content would be introduced so that you in today's debate would be on an equal footing and know what those new content added to the original GNP. You said, Mrs. Corcuera, "I sell advice and I don't have it for myself." I have previously taught a map of each and every project that is now underway in Gipuzkoa. I accept the challenge of going one by one looking at the attitude of EH Bildu and the attitude of the Socialist Party in them. I will give you just one example: in Usurbil the expansion of the shopping centre is proposed; the town hall, ruled by Euskal Herria Bildu, denies the license for that expansion. All licenses in Donostia are not only being granted, but the ad hoc regulations are being specifically changed. That is, if you really are in favour of maintaining the 2004 consensus and that you no longer create shopping centres, apart from saying it here, apply it where you have the capacity to apply it. And that is why we also referred to the political moratorium. I don't know if it bothers you about the political concert or not. Not to me, particularly. You also do, but we're not opening a crusade against adjectives now. Let us use those adjectives, because the moratorium is essential. And the moratorium can be done from a legal and legal point of view, associated with the processing of the PTS, and there is support for it. That is precisely what has happened in Mallorca, and it ends this same month by passing through the filter of the High Court of Justice of Mallorca, which has decided that it is legal, while establishing a new regulation of a PTS, to decree a moratorium. But I told him that we could go further: even if there are legal doubts about it and about the times, let's decide politically that we don't want any bigger shopping malls and deny licenses with the law in hand or refuse to change the urban regulations, because it can be done where we have the capacity to do so. Because if you say that everyone knows about the Socialist Party's commitment, why is no one in this country but you so convinced? That's why we came today. And I was saying, yes, indeed, a turning point, because we set a time, that the government would present us with deadlines for this PTS to be completed, and commitments... Because the PTS, you know it leaves options open. The PTS, as is the case at the moment, is not conclusive, it puts on the table different offers, and what we want here is a political statement from Parliament. And indeed there are very interesting elements in the proposal that you have made to us, I keep them in mind and I do not disqualify them at all; but here it will remain, black on white, something that goes even beyond what you proposed. That is, calendar, contents and clarity. And that, society and the trade sector will be reassured, especially if the Government is indeed committed to carrying out this mandate. If they so agree, it is very easy: that the government should stand down, say it accepts the mandate of this House and assume it as its own, because you know that GNP is not legally binding. If you agree, in fact, that the Government should fulfil its mandate under this GNP. On the change of law, it's not that I say it or you say it, it's that the Supreme Court says it, that it has to be anchored in a law. In fact, the problem we have is partly based on the fact that the Governing Council in 2009 refused to adapt the Business Act and then that's what they've been buried with. So, it's not like I said it. Look, I have no sympathy because it is the Supreme Court of Spain that decides these things, much less, neither, by the Bolkestein directive and its content, but, in fact, what we are putting forward is something within the law, well studied because we have been dealing with this matter for a long time and it has indeed forced us to study the case law, to study what the European Union says and what the Supreme Court says, and here is a well worked road map to establish a secure PTS and in the meantime not to give carte blanche to the indiscriminate proliferation of commercial establishments. If we all agree, today we leave it written, that the government is committed to respecting it, and indeed all these people will go home a lot quieter, and so will I. One last question. The disappearance of small trade is like climate change: it's happening, it's not something that can happen, it's something that's happening. It's happening at a relatively slow pace and that's why it's almost something more imperceptible, but it's happening. The strategic plan itself, which you mentioned, contains the disappearance of a 15 16% of trade in recent years. It's something that's gradually happening. A very important collective effort is needed to enable the small trade sector to meet the challenges, new challenges, new technological realities and new realities in the sector. And in that effort, the Government must play a leading, dynamic role together with the sector's associations. What can't come is to declare war on the associations, to declare some orders that have set up the whole sector and that not only to the association that is here today and has promoted the most active protests, but also to others – perhaps on a more discreet plane – has felt really fatal to them. So what you have to do is lead together with the sector, articulate that dialogue, articulate big consensus and deal with a small trade problem that you have not created but which, of course, with these kinds of measures and with these kinds of approaches are not helping to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Poedemus. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u48	Well, first of all, you've been talking to us about immobilism, that we didn't turn to you, to the EAJs. And it is true, I must confess, because we thought you wouldn't sign it. That's why we didn't turn to you. However, I want to give you a thought, and they themselves have given us this reflection, and they tell us: the shopkeepers believe they attacked them because they were critical. It has been declared that the intention of association is to injure it. And they believe that the main goal is to control the sector, while the other is to prevent associations and helpers from managing them, to compete directly with other operators, or to change the management of the technical offices of commerce. In short, they say, "We make it happen." At least that's their point of view. I think we'll have to do something, won't we? In memory and co-operation the importance of the conversation is often cited, and most of them, who have almost come to it, have told us this: los diálogos impeccibles, hay que rightchar que piensa different, hay que sentarese a hablar is the time! I'll start first: to hear the other's opinion, as I told you, to proclaim the role of civil and operating societies, or to create nets among the several. And in this business, why not? Talk to the clerks, please. You won't regret it. The interview will always be the way and not the inposibility. And, as Mrs Corcuera said, it is not necessary to amend article 13 of the law, that the PTS already provides enough security. Well, that's not what we say, that's what the Supreme Court says. And the Supreme Court tells us this, and I read textually: "Law 17/2009 also requires that restrictions on the implementation of commercial equipment must be sufficiently motivated in the law that establishes them, obligations or requirements, both, that are not met in the territorial sectoral plan, since it neither has the status of law nor sufficiently justifies the fulfilment of the conditions of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality." Therefore, I believe it is not us, it is the Supreme Court that says so. I believe that it is necessary, of course in that order of priority, to present the new sectoral territorial plan – we will observe it and study it – and then we will have to make an adaptation of the Commercial Activity Act, amending that article number 13, which is what traders and small business are asking of us. It is clear that there has to be a balance, because we have new forms of consumption, society is evolving at fast pace, and, as they said, we have a form of Internet shopping 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. True, they cannot compete against that, but we will have to manage in another way to ensure that this balance is so that the people do not remain empty, so that the small traders have at least their future assured, and that they do not have those insecurities that generate them from the fact that the government is doing things, because I know that you are doing things, but you do not know what. I therefore believe that it is necessary to open up those channels, those channels of communication, that everyone should explain what situation they are in, what needs they have and, of course, try to reach the best possible agreement, which is certainly in the interests of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u50	Mrs Corcuera, can you tell me on which page of the Budgets Act the concept of beneficiary is being changed by allowing the Chambers to compete in the territorial sphere and the municipalities and development entities promoted by them on equal terms with the associations of traders in the area and, moreover, by virtue of these changes, the assessment of those aspects in which the scoreboard treats the applicant entities differently according to their legal nature is neutralized? What do you mean, that associations and chambers of commerce and municipalities are equally legal in nature? That chambers of commerce and trade associations have the same treatment and the same relationship with the urban trade sector? This, on which budget page does it appear? None. They're not hiding. This is what the department writes, and what's coming is to neutralize associations, they say clearly, they don't hide. Which budget page does that say? But, look, when you go to the changes in the MEC aids, it's tremendous. It is said, certification of excellence: it drops from three points to two... No, you disincentive one to opt to be excellent, because you already take it from the aids. Belongs to an association: from five points to one. If you have management software, five points goes to one. Listen, but is this encouraging the modernization of trade or disincentive? But if this doesn't make sense, Mrs. Corcuera! Top rating in the template: from five points goes to two. But, apart from eliminating training, they disincentive people with degrees to be in a trade. Mrs. Corcuera, this is terrible! Tremendo! Recognition as a partner in equality, commerce, retail, urban: from two points to three. You tell me what the percentage of family unit of retail businesses is. And they're going to make an equality plan for the members of the family unit. I'll tell you what the equality plan the members of the family unit have to make to attend to their trade, I'll tell you what it is. Your Honor, this is striking. This does not encourage trade to be modernized. It's the other way around, disincentive. So what do we do? Actually, if I have a degree you can't get help, lower my score. In the end, what are you looking for? That there should be less expenditure from that item, and then the surplus should go to what I want, in addition to the items that have already been invented and that have no justification, we do not know what is going to be done for the municipalities, for the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the decree on the structure of the department and what it says, Directorate of Commerce, what the Directorate of Commerce is responsible for and what the Directorate of Commerce should do: ordering commercial activity, PTS; ordering, not encouraging disproportionate nuclei. Ordering commercial activity. Secondly, to promote the improvement and modernization of trade distribution structures and processes. Thirdly, to encourage the implementation of quality and innovation processes in trade. Encourage, don't exercise them me. Because this isn't a public service. It is that you understand the trade sector as a public service. No, it's private, yeah, yeah, yeah. The one who lifts the blinds every day is an individual who has decided to be autonomous and who has to pay his taxes. It is not a public service where you equate that activity with the city council or the chamber of commerce. But how can that be equated? Neutralize, use, neutralize associations. It's terrible! Good thing they write it, because you tell it and nobody believes it, but they write it. They've got the guts to write it down. It says "Technical assistance to companies and associations in the commercial sector through the network of trade technical assistance offices". Where are the municipalities, chambers of commerce, development agencies in this structural decree? Where are they? Is this worth it or not? He tells me that you have signed a paper where this is collected. I don't know where he is. Yo, you're gonna let me create the newsletter. Do I believe the newsletter or not? Or don't we have to believe him? So, if only trade sector associations are included here in the network of trade technical assistance offices, what do chambers of commerce, municipalities and development agencies paint in the order? Ladies and gentlemen, they cheat on themselves, they see the plumber. I'm sorry, surely there are many people in the Socialist Party who do not agree with this, but it is that they have to amend it, because we are destroying the associative fabric of trade, which is a priority element, because it is in a critical situation and we need strong associationism. Of course we do! But these orders don't strengthen the associative tissue, they destroy it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u51	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Quiet, please. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u52	Well, minutes of glory and few practical realities. And I am sorry, and you know that I say this to you from the heart, because you have known me for many years now in helping associations and traders in the trade sector in this Parliament. Let us see, Mrs López de Ocariz, there is not a single sentence of the amendment that you put before Bildu's initiative that has been reflected in that transaction that you have signed right now between Bildu, Podemos and the People's Party. Nothing, nothing, zero PTS baller. What lessons are you going to give me on territorial planning? Which ones? None, right? Okay! I'm saying this because, of course, it's that when some people are given to stage and go to radicalism, it turns out that others have to be eaten here? Well, it's not gonna happen, okay? And Mrs. López de Ocariz knows that I have her in great appreciation. Bolkestein Directive. Here we are selling, Mrs López de Ocariz, that we are going to set limits on the liberalisation of services, when you in Madrid must be doing something completely different; something will have Euskadi when you change the singularities of the parties. And I'm saying that because even before their peers they would also have to do that reflection that they asked of us. Bildu defending the management of the budgets to which he voted against, amendment of the whole; the partial ones, all against, this time did not even try to abstain in those of the People's Party, so they voted against each and every one of the aids to all trade, to everything, not just associations, to everything. Or not, Mr. Casanova? The aid orders, Mrs López de Ocariz, you know that those orders are not approved in this Parliament, you know that those orders are not approved in the Budgets. But read the memories of the Directorate for Internal Trade and you will see, on four axes, each and every one of the strategic lines that we have to help the commercial sector and why. And the explanation is in the government program that we Socialists have also assumed, which we support the government; as I say, a government program, because the commercial sector has its importance in the economic activity of this country, and therefore commercial associationism, which, together with other factors, promotes and promotes trade and will therefore promote and develop the economic activity of the Basque Country in general. How are we going to go against some of the key elements of Euskadi's commercial development? How, Mrs. López de Ocariz? How and since when? Well, never; then, never. I'll tell you more. At the Councillor's appearance to explain the 2018 Budgets, you were given the keys to that doubt you had in the entrepreneur program, and I asked the Councillor the question for further explanation. Look at the record, you'll see it, and you'll see the advisor's explanation for the innovation programme as well. And as I told you before, regarding the technical offices of commerce, associations and entities know that in the amendment that the People's Party introduced in the Budgets for these offices it turns out that they forgot one issue, and it was the assessment of 25% the following year. What did that lead to? A budgetary problem. Technical, but a problem, which paralyzed, and therefore aid could only be granted at 38, not at 42. And the actions of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, in particular the Director of Commerce, have promoted that at the end of Finance and Budgets of the Basque Government has and allows with a credit transfer the solution so that 25% of 2019 consists in the Budgets of the year 2019 from now on. That was the problem, and associations know it, because they have communicated it to them; therefore, that issue has been corrected. But you put the problem in your amendment, because you did not specify 25% for 2019, that is, that it is not a problem for the department or ours, but yours, when making some amendments. With regard to Hirigune, it is true that there are a number of discrepancies, but it is also true that the tranches and maximum amounts of the subsidy are updated on the basis of the available budget. And it is also true that aid is now going to be given on the basis of the population data of the establishments and the unemployment rate on 1 January 2018, which was not there before. And I think it is of interest that in the commercial sector, which is sometimes referred to as precarious employment and unemployment problems, we have also fixed the question of aid on the basis of these unemployment rates. MEC programme. This is an aid to the commercial enterprise, not to associations. It is not an express aid to associations, and new percentages of aid are indeed incorporated. Three more points for having an equality plan. Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz. There is a need for equality plans in all sectors. You will like it more or you will like it less, but you can make equality plans adapted to retail trade. How can they not be done? If we continue like this, we also erase problems or social issues from the face of the earth. Two additional points if an investment brings added value, uniqueness or innovative initiative. On the issue of disclosures, you say "It's that they eliminate the program!". Well, neither the technicians of the Directorate of Commerce, nor the technicians of the network of technical offices of commerce, nor the associations themselves, nor the traders consider it appropriate to maintain this call and this programme because it has become obsolete. In 2016, of an amount of 250,000 euros, only 100,000 were taken advantage of and in the 2017 program...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u53	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u54	In the 2017 Budgets, 250,000 have only been used 50,000; therefore, this activity, this program, was falling. And training, Mrs López de Ocariz, must be done in terms of modernisation, innovation, technology and digitisation. And the area of dialogue, which has been offered by the department, is the binding element at the end of the strategies that the government department has with the agents, with all the agents working in the commercial sector. It is therefore the responsibility of the Basque Government for public money, of all, so that, in collaboration with the private sector, we can take advantage of synergies and, ultimately, promote and promote commercial activity, which is what it is all about. PTS theme, which was what brought us here at first, in the original idea, Euskal Herria Bildu...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u56	Yeah, three lines. No, I'm saying it because in the end I think it's important. Mr Casanova, for the Socialists – and let me be clear, and this will be reflected in the Journal of Sessions – the important thing in the PTS is that there is a legal fit, institutional respect, which for that is a law of local institutions in Euskadi – and therefore it is necessary to respect the competences and the articles that establish that urban planning is of the municipalities and competence exclusively of they–, prudence on the subject of the review...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u58	... of sectoral activity and legal certainty...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u59	Madame Corcuera, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u60	... to avoid property claims, which are important....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u61	Thank you. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Mr. Casanova, that a proposition, as you were saying, is not a legally binding proposition, that it is a political scheme, and that you are right, but you have said afterwards that although it is not a juridic co-operation, the government ought to obey what has been said here. And it cannot be fulfilled, because this extension or mortatoria cannot be fulfilled, because it is not morally adequate. It is another thing to make a complaint that we must consider the clergy of general interest at the time of making such decisions, but I think you have entered into a contradiction, and it is obvious. Then the thirteenth Article of the Law of Commerce, whether it be changed or not. We think it's the first thing that we've said is that we have to change, but I've noticed, Mrs. Wide, that you have here said what we are saying: First of all, this PTS is to be changed, and then the thirteenth article of the law, because it requires a legal and legal protection, and we agree in it. So maybe the government will put it in its chronogram after a legal examination. Interview. Well, all right, ma'am, the conversation, my parliamentary teams, and I personally speak to the delegation of trade for years and years (than ten years). Exactly, we've been having a lot of discussion with the representatives here and we'll continue our discussion. And if I am to accuse him of something that has been done for the last 15 days, I will not do it from this tribe, but if we have the opportunity to speak, I will tell them what my view is about the attitude they have had. And don't hesitate to doubt that this government and this department have a political attitude towards conversation, because it's not about the applications of assistance mentioned by Mrs. Corcuera, that's not a decision of the sector, of the back, but has been explained to them why, some things, some programs, and so on. It may be obvious that they are not convinced, but I think that this government and this department will continue to do so. And maybe we need to get to a consensus where we know things change and things have to become modernized. Yes, I think there is no strategy of association or association, nor of falling into a paranoia. I think that's important. I have mentioned the continent and you, too; and there may perhaps be a starting-point of the continent if you admit that you vote in point with your middle-class text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. End of discussion, we're gonna vote EH Collect, Euskal Team Popular, and together Podemos' correction, and we're requested to do the right thing. No problem? Okay. How is it? [[Berber]] One and two apart, and three, four and five, and six. Okay. Then we vote for one and two points to begin. We vote one and two points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u63	So one and two points have been unanimously accepted. After that, we'll vote for three, four, five, six points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u64	So there are three, four, five, and six points. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together about advanced retreats. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Hernandez, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u65	Good afternoon, congressmen. The right to early retirement provided for in the General Law on Social Security has undergone a series of legal reforms since 2002 that have finally ended with a regulation of this right to early retirement, which has become a genuine career obstacle for workers who have to access it, either for reasons not attributable to the workers themselves, through collective redundancies, etc., or also for cases of early retirement, called voluntary, which in many cases – of course, in our opinion – is not really voluntary. Recent changes, especially in the years 2012 and 2013, have also significantly harmed those with long working lives who are forced to retire before the ordinary age, either because they do not find work in their last years of working life, or because they consider that after long years of work they have already reached the end of their working life. The application of the current reducing coefficients to these people significantly diminishes their pension, even though they have worked and contributed for many years. The initiative we are presenting today, therefore, which proposes to the central Government are two concrete measures which, if adopted, would largely resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u66	Mr. Herndez, please. That T-shirt is not supported. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u67	As I said, these measures, if approved, would benefit more than 700,000 pensioners affected by such cuts. In the first place, we propose that the reduction coefficients should not be applied to pensions for those who retire early, as permitted by law when these persons have more than 40 years of contributions. Because being able to credit 40 years of contributions implies that there is a long working life and a long life of contributions to the public pension system, long enough, in our view, so that they are not penalised by a reduction in the pension due to retirement just a couple of years before the age considered as ordinary age. In a special way, moreover, after having raised the ordinary age for retirement through a reform carried out by the Socialist Government of Zapatero, a reform to which we have already opposed in its day from the United Left and to which we continue and will continue to oppose from the coalition between Equo, Ezker Anitza-United Left and Podemos. In addition, we propose in the initiative that those persons who, being less than 40 years of age, and to whom the reducing coefficients are applied for the time being, should be stopped from applying those reductions when they reach the ordinary retirement age, so that from then on they will receive their full pension, without any loss. It is therefore an initiative with two concrete measures aimed at reversing some of the measures that have cut and cut pensions in recent years. In particular, those who have cut the pension amounts of those who retire to the pre-ordinary age provided for in the law. We do not think it is acceptable that those who have to retire a few years before the ordinary age, which is increasingly high because of the reform carried out by the Socialist Party in 2012, see their pension wasted, when in most cases that retirement is not really voluntary and when many of these people have contributed for many years and have contributed to our pension-sharing system. Thousands of women workers are forced to benefit from early voluntary retirement because they cannot find work at the age of 63, have exhausted unemployment benefits, and have their pension cut, despite having contributed enough years. That volunteerism is, therefore, in our view rather relative in many cases, not to say that it is not voluntary in many of them, but that it is the only decision by which thousands of workers and workers in that situation can choose. So many thousands of workers are forced to retire in advance on a non-voluntary basis, because they suffer collective redundancies when they are already over 61 years old, and they are also cut their pension for that reason, which is clearly unfair and which is not resolved with smaller reduction coefficients, and which they need – in our opinion, at least – that when these people reach the ordinary retirement age they have an integrated pension, without applying reducing coefficients. In addition, this proposal that we bring to the Basque Parliament comes from a demand promoted by thousands of people affected and affected throughout the State and which has already been approved in several institutions, including several autonomous parliaments, which have asked the Government of the State to implement the changes proposed today in the Basque Parliament by our parliamentary group. This measure has been defended by the United Left and Podemos in several autonomous parliaments, and has been supported in several areas of the Socialist Party itself, now in the state government. Moreover, the Socialist Party itself presented it and defended it in an institution such as the Andalusian Parliament, where it certainly found the support of both the United Left and Podemos. That is precisely why I was surprised when the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party tabled an amendment to the whole that excluded the two concrete measures that we proposed and proposed a generalist wording to address the issue, but without concrete measures. A surprise, bearing in mind that both parties had expressed support for these two measures in other institutions. It seemed like an exercise of incoherence. However, I proposed to Mr Pastor and Mr Aiartza a compromise in which, by accepting his generalist amendment, we included the two concrete measures that we have proposed from my group in the initiative we are presenting. I thought that would be the agreement, but the truth is that I met with a second surprise, a counter-proposal that included new elements such as the preparation of a report, but that much of the concrete measures we proposed were brushed up. There was no possible agreement in those terms, because we only proposed in our initiative two concrete measures on which the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have already expressed themselves positively on other occasions. That is why I insisted on another proposal in which, in part taking up the new elements that were proposed to us, the two concrete measures that we recorded in our original initiative and of which we could not get out of step were taken. Finally, I have to thank both Members of Parliament, Mr Pastor and Mr Aiartza, because they have been pleased to accept this compromise. A transaction that, in my opinion, is not so generous, but rather is consistent with what their parties had expressed with regard to the measures that we were bringing to this House on this occasion. Therefore, from my parliamentary group we are satisfied that the initiative we bring to the House will be adopted by a large majority. I believe that the parliamentary group of EH Bildu, which has not tabled an amendment, will support it, and, if so, go ahead with our thanks in advance, both for not having made an amendment – I therefore understand that they were in agreement with the original initiative – and for supporting the compromise that we have finally reached. I do not know what the People's Party will do, but at least so far they have opposed these measures, and I have to assume that they will also do so today and are going to oppose it, unless now that they are not in Moncloa they exercise political opportunism and give us their support. I imagine not, I think not, and I see Mr Damborenea who obviously will not support us. Well, I would also like to say that we believe that this initiative cannot be left in a declaration of intent, let alone in a toast to the sun, and we believe that there must be sufficient elements for this to be done and finally carried out. With what we approve today, we call on the new Socialist Government to be consistent and to implement measures that it has said when it was in the opposition, until just a week and a half ago. I am – and I have to admit it – of those who have no illusion or hope placed in the government of Pedro Sánchez. I do not expect much from that Government, I do not think it will make the political and economic changes that the State needs at such a delicate time, 40 years after the Constitution of 78. I say this with complete honesty, I wish I were wrong, but I think it will not be so, not only because of its weak parliamentary support, but also because of its political programme. But I believe that at least he must be required to be consistent with what he has been defending during those years in which he has not ruled in Madrid. When we registered this initiative, the People's Party ruled from Moncloa, and it was directed to them, therefore, the initiative. But, as the pensioners said this past Monday again at the demonstration in Bilbao, pensions are being defended by those who rule. Therefore, the initiative is now addressed to the Socialist Government, to which we have to demand that it implement what is proposed here, because it has said that it has been defended over the last few years. The new Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mrs Magdalena Valerio, will not be able to avoid these proposals, as she herself has participated in the mobilizations calling for the elimination of the reduction coefficients for those who retire early with more than 40 years of contributions. I have found a picture in which the minister now places herself behind a banner, precisely, claiming what we approve today. Okay, so, now this is in your hands. It is in their hands to be able to put this claim into practice, and therefore the people concerned will not benefit from any justification if these measures, which we are bringing to the Basque Parliament today, are not approved. Therefore, and in conclusion, we think from our parliamentary group that the initiative adopted today, the compromise adopted, is a success. Not a success for our parliamentary group, nor a success for any other parliamentary group, is a success for those and those affected, many of them organized who have been defending this just claim for a while to this part, some of them are here today also defending this claim. But it is a success that can become an absolute failure if the Socialist Party government fails to do so. It will be up to us to put pressure on this Parliament, once we adopt that initiative, and to ask for consistency. We'll see, I hope they do. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u69	Gracias, president. Today we have resumed the debate on the public pension system with a matter that we all, without exception, had been quoted on 1 March, when we reached a very great agreement on the subject, that of early forced retirements. Because, indeed, it is not that we coincide with Elkarrekin Podemos, but that the Socialist Group presented more than a year ago a proposal in the Congress of Deputies, which is here, which was vetoed by the Congress of the People's Party and which comes to collect all the casuistics that arise in this initiative. So, I also understand that Mr Hernandez wants to do a little bit of a party cause, right? But, finally, I would like to say that if this government goes well, it will go well with us all, and the failure of this government would be the failure of all; therefore, this not only depends on the political initiative of the Socialist Party, which has been registered for a year now, but also on the support of all those who supported the motion of censure and on the responsibility of all of them. As I said, this initiative was already presented in Congress more than a year ago, an initiative that sought to recover the rights that were curtailed when the PP not only ruled, but abused its absolute majority. As we all know and many suffer, the economic miracle of the past few years was to cancel expenditure through the rights of the most vulnerable. Savings became the mantra that justified any decision, regardless of the serious social damage it caused. And the pensioners suffered double those decisions; first with the medication, which, in addition to restricting the universal right of health to the irregular administrative population, deprived many pensioners of acquiring the medication they needed. Here, in Euskadi, measures were arbitrated that compensated for the disengagement. The Socialists, who six years ago were in these seats, are not forgotten that it was that decision to prevent this brutal cut-off to our public health system with our powers that caused, among other things, the PP to disagree with stability in Euskadi. Today we can say that the initiative we take to express our skills to alleviate this troupe has extended to other communities, and since last week it is also a cutback from which to reverse. And then the pensioners, too. From 2013 onwards, it was up to them to continue paying the bill for the pension crisis with that legislative decree which introduced the factors of the insustainability of a dignified life, which is what they became, contrary to article 50 of the Constitution. This too, the impoverishment of nine million people, of half a million in Euskadi, comes to the forefront of this Government's agenda. The outgoing Executive dizzyed the loss with the Toledo Pact, simulating meetings without impulse that remained in limbo, after being forced to a minimal, partial and limited rise. But that pact, with basic and lasting consensus, is the tool that the present Government has intended to recover and that it has already launched, in response to the demands of those who continue to demand a response every Monday. We talked a lot about that on March 1, reaching a great deal of agreement. Great because we were almost all groups, which are also a projection of the agreements that we can achieve in Congress, and great because of their extension and detail. But, as I pointed out at the beginning, probably in the effort of detail we sometimes forget certain collectives or certain casuistics, and this is probably one of them. This is the case for persons who are forced to retire early. From a pen they were forced down with those who made the free decision to withdraw before the mandatory age and before meeting the mandatory requirements for 100% of the pension. In that legislative decree of 2013, which was transposed into the consolidated text of 2015 that we quote here today, the reduction coefficients were increased to those who anticipated their retirement, and in this sack they also put those who had been thrown out of the labour market and had to benefit from it mandatory. And we are talking about people – many thousands – who, in addition to losing their labor income, saw how much they would have lost if they had reached the ordinary age. Loss that in turn consolidated over time throughout the time of receipt of the supplement of the pension, i.e. impoverishment on impoverishment. To the person who imposed that decree, the imperative need to compensate for the expense that social security had to bear for that advance little mattered to apply it equally to those who were fired, to those who no longer had options to seek alternative sources of income, even in cases where, as you commented, they had long credited contributory careers that justified collecting 100% of the regulatory base. The Government's decree condemned the poverty loop to thousands of workers. That is why my group, in the opposition in Congress, as it is now going to do from the Government, raises the need for the Congress of Deputies to correct the aggravation of people who are involuntaryly forced to access early retirement and specifically those who have accredited long contributory careers. It wants to make us aware as we are, in the Government now and before in the opposition, that these reversal measures have consequences for the social security system that needs to be quantified. That is what we have been proposing for a long time in Congress and what we are proposing here, in this amendment, by sharing the final objective of the proposer. Let us return the detail to the place from which he did not have to leave, the Toledo Pact, so that this impact can be quantified there, to look for the necessary sources of income, which exist. The clues are, because the first recommendation of the Toledo Pact, prior to the decree, already places this cost within the scope of the contributions of the General Budgets of the State to social security, which is probably one of the resources that the public pension system needs to be endowed with in the future. We therefore share the change of regulation in the arrangements for early access to retirement, because they do not take into account the forms of access and the times accredited by the pensioner, and, from the analysis of the concrete, to the concrete, which is basically to adapt the coefficients of reduction to the rates of contribution and to remove the reducing coefficients when the person concerned meets the requirements of access to retirement if a contribution that gives rise to the maximum rights is accredited, and also to determine the ways of obtaining the resources necessary to meet this just demand. And I, Mr Hernández, do have confidence in this government, and I am sure that walking together will accomplish many things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Since 1989, when I approached him professionally, I have understood the social security system and the general social security law, which is his essence, as a large machine full of screws. Screws that affect its operation, screws that are interconnected: adjust one of them affects all others and in many cases supposes to have to re-adjust them as well. In this great machinery that is Social Security there are large screws, which have a very powerful and immediate effect on its functioning, there are also smaller screws, which even with less direct immediate effect mark the synchrony of the system, and we know that even the smallest piece of unadjusted or unsynchronized can come to imply the paralysis of the system. The machine has to function in pursuit of a just end, a society with decent living conditions through benefits from the social security system. The machine must be perfectly greased by the principle of solidarity. The machine has to move forward in coordination with the essential social services that we have identified and without causing injury. And what we should never forget is that, beyond the machine, its parts, its torpedoes or its adjustments, there are people. Elkarrekin We can bring us today this initiative on early retirements, where, in the opinion of the proposing group, there are some dysfunctions in the system or in the system. In our opinion, too. It is the second initiative on the social security system, as has already been said, which we are dealing with in our Parliament during this parliamentary term, both on pensions. I would like to recall the first one, which gave rise to the essential agreement of March 2018. You, Mr Hernández, brought us a correction approach to the main parameters of the system, an approach that referred to the big screws of the system. We shared much of the analysis of the challenges facing the system and the screws to be moved. It is also true that we had serious differences with regard to the specific adjustment measures to be implemented. Despite the differences we have reached agreement: agreement of 1 March. We were able to close a text of seven essential points, let us say so, the seven major screws of the system: principles, repeal of Law 23/2013, prohibition of the free disposal of the reserve fund, increase the resources of the system, those referring to the expenses of the system, repeal the labor reform and the immediate transfer of 18.2 of the Statute of Gernika. But beyond the importance of the text of the agreement – which I believe is going to be capitalized in the future – the methodology we used was fundamental to us. Faced with the methodology that the state governments have consistently maintained in matters of social security (improvisation, short vision and lack of agreement, beyond a small majority, even some absolute majority, in itself – as I said to Mr Damborenea, "Yes, absolute majority, yes; in absolute solitude, too" –), in that agreement of March 1, all of us, except the People's Party, use another methodology, the common denominator, and we continue to advocate for it. The Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party set out in advance of that debate some basic lines of action in the field of social security: to modify the methodology used until then by the State, to undo or reverse some of the harmful decisions of the State Government, and to propose new and concrete solutions, and I think it worked. The agreement of 1 March, based on a broad consensus and which, in a certain way, establishes a common basis from which to undertake the reform of the social security system, is the starting point that the Basque Nationalist Party and its parliamentary group in Madrid will defend in the Toledo Pact. An image regarding the system or, better, regarding the General Law on Social Security; it is not acceptable that the General Law on Social Security be systematically adopted through the figure of the actual legislative decree: consensus is essential, it is the key in Social Security, in pensions. Today we are dealing with this initiative in relation to early retirement, an initiative also presented in other parliaments, as you have recalled: Castilla y León, Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja, Aragón and Canarias. Smaller screw, perhaps, may think some; still, very important; very important for the synchrony of the system, in our opinion, fundamentally because we have to end this aggravation; and very important, of course, for many working people. From the moment you registered this initiative, our parliamentary group had an opinion on it, I have already told you that we agreed, but I would like, in a way of recognition, to make an appointment – and I open quotes –: "It is a historical injustice that affects an important group of people who have been subjected to the pre-emption of fundamental and essential rights outside their will, particularly the right to work and to a certain or predetermined amount of pension, for acts of disposition in respect of which they have not given any kind of consent", a little in line that you also commented on. "It is a historical injustice that we must correct." These are the words of the deputy of the Basque Nationalist Party in Congress, Emilio Olabarria, pronounced on February 21, 2006 –2006 – in defense of this initiative. Yes, this initiative. Not an initiative similar to this, similar to this, comparable, comparable, equivalent, similar to this; no, this initiative, Mr Hernández, this. Mr Olabarria brilliantly defended your initiative, not yours, from you or your spokesman in the Parliament of Castilla y León, Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja, Aragón or Canarias, where they have also presented themselves; it is in defense of yours, that of Mr Olabarria. Our parliamentary group in Congress registered this non-law proposal on 26 January 2005. All, each and every one of the words, not one more, not one less, of their justification, are our statement of motives in Congress. The operative part changes with regard exclusively to the normative framework (Real Legislative Decree 1/1994 in ours, by Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 in yours), 13 years later; a little more creativity, Mr Hernández. Surprise? Surprised mine when I read this initiative, when I read the text. In any case, in any case, it is important for me to move forward, to continue to act to correct that historical injustice. Everything we push in his day, everything we learn from that initiative, has to serve us to go further in ending this aggravation to many, to a lot of hardworking people. How did that initiative of ours end in Congress? In fact, with a text adopted in the House, the approach we took in 2005 was quite diluted. How would I like this initiative to end? No doubt, otherwise. No doubt, otherwise. Where can the difference be that it ends otherwise? For, fundamentally, in the methodology of consensus. That's why I brought the learning that I think has left us all our agreement on 1 March. Specifically, where? So, in what we were proposing today, and that is why the text we were proposing – what we were proposing to you, which you were also surprised at – of Recommendation 11 of the Toledo Pact, where the aim is to restore an adequate proportionality between the contributory effort that was made as a contributor and the final pension that will be received as a retiree or a retiree. We have already made a reservation in that sense, there. I am glad to have signed this transactional agreement; it marks an evolution centered on consensus. It is a much improved version, adapted to the current time, compared to a copy of an initiative that, if in 2005 it was leading, today, without a doubt, we must adapt it to the current scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Hernandez, I'm surprised too. I am surprised that the Socialist Party is voting for this, I am surprised that the Nationalist Party is voting for this, and even more surprised that you are voting for this. And I'm gonna try to explain. In the end you, all of you, what you are proposing..., and don't make me the demagogy of forced voluntary retirements, which is another article; we're talking about volunteers: "As I please, I retire early. Because I feel like it." This little article is the one that Mr Hernandez brought us. Not the one about the forcibles, okay? That, by the way, the Minister of Labour and Social Security, Fatima Báñez, those you said that you were retiring at the last hour, that you had to retire after you had been unemployed for the last few years, being older, and losing..., when he made the proposal that those gentlemen could choose the years that best suit them for their retirement, all of you voted against, and that is why it was not approved, that is that you do not come here now from caterpillars telling us what things. Mr Hernandez, I don't know what autonomous parliaments this has led to, I don't know where you have led it to. I do know he's been taken to Congress of Deputies. Yes, I do. And, moreover, its initiative, which is of 16 March, registered here on 9 April, and yet, I have here the Official Gazette of the Congress of Deputies: proposal of law presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I think it's his group and his party. I think it's yours, right? Do you want me to tell you what you say about your reform, what you raised here? No, I don't. No way! Do you know what your group and your party is proposing in the Congress of Deputies, which is where you are competent, do you know what you are proposing? Nothing that when I'm 40, I retire and collect the maximum. Of that, nothing. No, no. Of that, nothing. And no removing the correction coefficients: they modify them. They say 0.5% for each month, that for two years, at twelve months... a 12% decrease. That is what Elkarrekin Podere proposes in the Congress of Deputies in a bill that is being dealt with today, and you certainly have the opportunity to approve there, if you want, by modifying whatever is in this proposal, which, of course, Elkarrekin Podere has not raised what is going to be voted on here, but quite the contrary. Do you want me to read it to you? Do you want me to read it to you? Early retirement, and on top of it they make a bottle error: they say "Having reached the age of 63". The current text says that early retirement can be reduced by two. And it says in two and it doesn't say 63, because you here charge the possibility of all those who are welcome to other regimes. Because I don't know if you know that in Spain from the age of 52 – depending on what profession – to the age of 55, to the age of 60, people can retire, not prejubilate voluntarily. And that's why the law says two years earlier, because it's voluntary. And, of course, it does seem fair to me that, if someone decides voluntarily to retire before and stops contributing, of course, that they receive less pension. What's absurd is what you're all asking us here, which is that... do you know what you were really asking? Lower the retirement age in two years, to 63. That's what they put on. Because in the end you're going to charge the same. If you're going to charge the same thing by prejudging yourself at 63, because you're looking forward to it, and at 65, you're going to pay the same thing without two years... that's what they're doing. By the way, I am also surprised that the Socialist Party, which has raised the retirement age in this country, is now proposing that I can voluntarily retire at 63. That's what they're proposing. Are you really going to approve this in the Toledo Pact? Hey, it's even good for me, I don't know. I don't know. But, well, anyway, as you are here so phenomena and so "guys"... And what I have to say is that the compromise amendment is absolutely pathetic. Why is it pathetic? Because it starts backwards. You decide what to do, then you decide to ask for a study and then you say we send it to the Toledo Pact. Hey, it'll be the other way around, won't it? First, the Toledo Pact, if I need a study, and then, depending on that, the measures are agreed upon. I say it'll be the other way around. And by the way, by the way, they are asking the Independent Tax Accountability Authority for a study on the current situation of early retirements. I don't know if they know how the Independent Tax Accountability Authority works. First, that they have no competence, we have no competence to ask. And second, they charge money for the studies they do, they charge, they have to be paid. You have to pay them. So, Mr. Aiartza, are you willing to pay from the Basque Country for this study that you think is necessary because, in your opinion, it is not done, and it is necessary and then we send it to the Toledo Pact? Hey, it's pathetic to start the house on the roof. Now, in any case, listen, we are perfectly open, Mr Hernández, you do not know how well you live against the government. We are not going to vote against this fantastic initiative that will solve the problems of the whole world. We shall abstain and wait to see what is agreed in the Toledo Pact.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u75	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Today we have a part of the controversy about pensions on the table, the most advanced retirement. The matter is important, of course. There's a lot of jobs that are common to advanced retirement on its own features. But it is true, too, that there are workers who are retired for different reasons, because they are compelled to take it thus, or because they are in some degree owing to the state of companies. We have also had a discussion about the state of teachers who have retired in this new parliament. The fun broke the discussions about the compositions. This is an example, namely, that there are many, even in private companies, compensations which have been negotiated with advanced retreats, in order to insure, in some measure, the system of the maintenance of the public system. But it is true that great companies have used these systems in recent years, and that therefore many workers are only subject to social security. The advanced retreat has been fairly general around us, and we know that several international institutions have often told the Spanish State that it was necessary to limit this mode of retirement to maintain the stability of the system. But we know that this stability has been used as an excuse, that we have only seen the restrictions of pensioners' rights, and that even in the advanced retirement, of course, there have been restrictions of rights, and they are in full force today. In this legislature, as Mr. Pastor has said, we have spoken more than once, and clearly the position of each group has been made clear. We've got it all figured out. This system has much to do with improvement, in order to have a system with really dignity on its axis. And we place the subject of advanced retirement from EH Collect in that profound change which the system needs. The truth is that in the state pension system there is a paradox: on the one hand, the regulations are aimed at delaying the retirement age until the age of 67 and the conditions for access to early retirement have been tightened; but, at the same time, the number of people accessing early retirement has been increasing year after year – except in the 2017 financial year, which fell slightly – year after year has been increasing. And the truth is that the forecasts indicate that this 2018 exercise is going to follow the same path. Some of these retirees, as has already been pointed out, are voluntarily after many years of work, but it is no less true that others and others are as a result of the unemployment that has been brought about by the latest labour reforms. Curiously, one more example of the perverse effects of recent labour reforms on the state pension system. Generally, these are people with a long contributory career, as indicated. And the truth is that, according to the latest data that I have been able to access, in February 2018, the pensions of these new retirees and early retirees is approximately 1,573 euros, somewhat higher than the pension to which those who retire at the retirement age of 65 years and five months, who charge about 1,125 euros on average. It is also true that, generally, these pensions, these early retirements of their own free will, do not access anyone, but, generally, those who have had jobs with salaries that have allowed them to make a mattress so as to be able to access it. This is despite the fact that the early retirement pension is cut, as has been said, by those so-called penalty coefficients, which mean a decrease of about 6% for each year in advance of the statutory retirement age. And, in particular, almost seven out of ten early retirees see their pension cut for the rest of their lives – I insist, for the rest of their lives – by the effect of these reducing coefficients. And, in general terms, the truth is that almost a third of all new pensions in 2017 were reduced in some way by these adjustments. We are therefore once again faced with a situation prompted by the various reforms of the pension system, one after the other, aimed at strengthening the rights of workers. And, of course, early retirements have not been an exception, they are no exception, as the latest reforms have also affected them, as has been pointed out, and as a result it is also the increase in early retirements experienced in recent years because they knew that even worse times could come. In this situation, no doubt, the system needs reform. We proclaim our own euscal system, and even in this system it is clear that we shall have to define and define the circumstances of the advanced retreats. But in the meantime we are in favor of the best possible system in power. And that's why we're clear of all those retired people who have worked for years after cotizing them for years, that there are conditions for certain workers to retire without forfeiting their rights. And therefore we made no correction to the proposition presented by Mr. Hernández, because we thought that it was a reasonable measure, because we thought, that he had somehow turned it over to the measures that had been lately established, and therefore the other reasons were not corrected; When we have discussed the elements of the schools, we have set them up again and again on the table, and we sometimes think that there are means to take measures here, that we have occasion here to do things, and that it is not always the way or the right way to look at Madrid. The middle line has finally been introduced by the directors and proposers, and they know it from our side... I've always said we'll leave the pensioners. I said so in that debate of March 1, that we will always stand for the rights of our pensioners, so that we will go away for any proposition which agrees with it, and so we did on the 1st of March. But it is true that this middle-way has certain curious things, and Monsieur Damborene has put some things on the table, and I can't keep silent. As you will understand, I'm surprised, and I'm very surprised...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very surprised at the presence of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority in this proposal. And the signatories know that, because I have commented with one of them. I'd say, it's not an authority that's holy of my devotion. An authority that has come and emerged to be a guarantor of article 135 of the Constitution cannot be holy of my devotion; therefore, it cannot be holy of my devotion. It is that this same authority, when it defines itself – because it is no longer defined by others – when it defines itself as saying that its mission is to ensure the effective compliance by public administrations with the principle of budgetary stability provided for in Article 135 of the Constitution through the continuous evaluation of the budgetary cycle of public policy. As you will understand, it is not that I or EH Bildu consider the Independent Tax Accountability Authority to be the right body to report on early retirements; I would even dare say that for almost nothing to do with the well-being of the citizenry, sincerely. But, well, it is you who have signed the transactional and it is you who have entered it. It is true that I believe that it has certainly been decompensated by that last introduction to the report, and so on the initial initiative of Mr Hernández, in which I believe that it is very clear at the first point that concrete measures are being discussed and I do not know why you have then chosen to add those reports, which, if you have considered it appropriate, I will not be the one to amend the plan. Just to finish, because I don't know why the famous agreement of 1 March has come out once, twice or three times today – which we are also going to have to put on a plaque, as another agreement I prefer not to remember – I do want to mention that, since we are talking about pensions and that the new government of the State is chaired by a member of the Socialist Party and all its members are of the Socialist Party, that agreement also talked about the transfer of the economic management of Social Security, and, Pastor, you know as well as I do that three days before, three days before Mr Sánchez acceded to the presidency of the Government of the Spanish State, the Group of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party voted against that in the Congress of Deputies. Ask him why he did so, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the answering round, we represent the Podemos team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u79	I am glad that the People's Party is going to abstain. I see that you are living well in the opposition, as you say, Mr Damborenea, and that allows you to abstain from an initiative which, if we had brought it two weeks ago, would have voted against. In any case, I am going to transfer you that I hope you will be in the opposition for a long time, although, as I have said before, I do not have much hope in the Socialist Party colleagues either. I am not going to throw a hemerotheque on who registered the first initiative on this issue. If Mr Aiartza says that the first to register it were from the Basque Nationalist Party, I think it's great, I have no problem. If I agree with the content, I defend the contents. What I do know is that my political organization, the United Left, has also maintained a coherent position on this issue for many years, and it is true that at some points we will have been able to register more ambitious initiatives and at other times less ambitious initiatives, such as with regard to this particular issue or other issues that are currently being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies. But I have already said in my previous speech that this initiative that my group was bringing to the Basque Parliament was not our initiative, but that it came from the pressure of those affected and those affected, workers who have been moving throughout the state so that the political groups will defend their demands, if we see that we agree with them. I therefore do not come to give ourselves any medal on the original initiative, which is precisely promoted by the workers concerned. And, yes, reference is made again to the agreement of 1 March. No, I also do not think it is to put it in a framework, Mrs Pinedo, but, well, I think it was a good agreement because it contains a number of very important concrete measures that we hope, as I said in my previous speech, that the Socialist Party will push from the government. And I believe that it is true that you will need parliamentary support, and of course in those concrete measures I am sure that you will have it from my colleagues from Equo, Podemos and United Left, but it is up to the Government, of course, to give the impetus. If the Government is not determined to take them forward, they will not come out, and therefore I am referring to the present Government. And, well, we agree that many of these issues have to be done with methodologies of dialogue and consensus, and the Toledo Pact can be a good place, or not, but it can be a good place, indeed. Now, I have one thing clear: if the People's Party has allowed itself the luxury of adopting reforms on pensions by passing, as I have said more than once, the Toledo Pact for the Arch of Victory in recent years, I believe that when the forces that we advocate changes in the pension model system like those that we approved on 1 March we must push them forward and we must push them forward above, if necessary, the Toledo Pact. That is my view, because I believe that it is absolutely necessary to reverse all the cuts we have been experiencing in recent years on the pension system. And also – and I mentioned briefly in my previous speech – the retirement age, which went ahead with the government. of the Socialist Party, with the agreement of the trade unions – right, with the agreement of the two major unions– but of which we, of course, were against and will continue to be against. And I think it also has a lot to do with how measures like these and the changes that have been made to the reducing coefficients have subsequently been implemented. Therefore, yes, on 1 March we left what we put on the table today. That's why we recorded – I think it was March 16th or so – this initiative to complete it. And we were worth our original initiative. We have included in the transaction the reference to the report that the Fiscal Authority would have to make, not because we agree with that Fiscal Authority, as Mrs Pinedo has also said, but because it is the approach that they were making to us and it was the option to reach an agreement, so, for our part, that they make a report, whatever they want, that we will already criticize it. But that is precisely why I said earlier that I was surprised by the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. If the amendment, as you say, Mr Aiartza, was originally yours, with which you would have voted in favour of it would have been enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u81	Good. As I see that there is some concern on the one hand in the proposer and on the other in Mr Damborenea, first of all a statement: what we are going to adopt today is very good as a political declaration and a show of political will, but, of course, what is useful is what is adopted in the Congress of Deputies for the purposes of what we are talking about, which is the public pension system. Others, I know they have another model, unattainable, but they stand up for it. Not us. Then, I will read as an intervention what the PSOE proposal says and which is going to be pushed forward now regarding what we are talking about today. And he literally says, for Mr. Damborenea's sake, don't tell me things that aren't said: "The Congress of Deputies considers it necessary to modify the current regulation of the modalities of early access to the retirement age as they represent a very significant reduction in the amount of the pension to be received by the person concerned, which does not take into account to the extent necessary the way in which this retirement is accessed, as well as the contribution times accredited by the pensioner. "2. In this regard, it urges the Government to request from the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority – i.e. that Ms. Pinedo considers it a kind of Court of Inquisition – a study on the current situation of early retirements, the form of their access, the contribution careers that are accredited for retirees and other variables that allow to quantify the impact of the adoption of the following measures in their application in cases where access to retirement is carried out in accordance with the terms provided for in article 207 or article 208 of the General Social Security Act, where in the latter case access to retirement has been preceded by dismissal or any other form of termination of the employment relationship in which it has not mediated the free will of the person concerned. "In this regard, first, to adjust the coefficients for reducing the retirement pension to those for whom persons seek early retirement; b, the abolition of the reduction coefficients applied on the occasion of early retirement on the date on which the person concerned meets the ordinary age of access to retirement, where a period of contribution which gives rise to the maximum pension rights is attested at the time of the pension. And point 3: "Once the study has been received, the Government will refer it to the commission for monitoring and evaluating the agreements of the Toledo Pact", which, fortunately, has been revived. And it is true that it is not the balm of Fierabrás: the Toledo Pact was constituted as a political pact to prevent the agreements that a government took in that sense from being changed by the next government. That is his intention and that should continue to be, but we do not sacrifice him either. In any case, it seems to us an important instrument. Good. It is referred there to the committee, so that, following the relevant analysis of the documentation submitted by the Government and the timely parliamentary debate, it will proceed "... to submit the relevant report to the Committee on Employment and Social Security of the Congress of Deputies, containing the appropriate proposals for improving the social security coverage of persons accessing early retirement for parliamentary processing." Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. This is what's really going to change things. What we do here is very good as a help, but this is what is going to change, when it turns into the Official Gazette, and on the assumption..., you will already be taken away from the suspicions and mistrusts, it is all a matter of time, but this is the important thing, this is what is, black on white, recorded in the Congress of Deputies. And this is the proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u83	Just an appreciation; as I have a little time left... For replying to Mrs Pinedo, on the proposal you made on the transfer of powers. Don't cheat on me, Mrs. Pinedo. We respect, defend – and have defended it there in Madrid – the transfer of the management of the economic regime of Social Security according to what the provision of the Statute says, which is not what you mentioned in that amendment. He had another literature, a little more trembling, that talked about other things, which he did not talk about the transfer of management from the economic system of Social Security. So, don't want to sell us hard to four pesetas, because that's a lot to see.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians team. Mr. Akianz, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u85	Thanks again. We have a signed agreement and, moreover, even Mr. Damborenea abstains; and yet... We must like this, don't we? To clarify some issues as well. The agreement of 1 March, in fact, beyond the seven points, I, what I wanted to underline today of the agreement of 1 March, is the methodology: 88% of this House supported this agreement after work. Today it could even be something else, if Mr. Damborenea gets a little excited. The Toledo Pact. I am not a fan of the Toledo Pact, but I have always thought, I have always defended that a system like Social Security has to have an R & D tool, a foresight tool, a tool to predict, to study, to see what challenges the system is facing and to propose solutions to those challenges before we face those problems, right?, which is what has happened, what has happened in recent years; then, I am in favour of that tool. The name is already something else. Indeed, Mr Hernández, the text is ours – here you have it, you can consult it, I can give you the reference – but it is not ours. We collect that text, as you say, from the people who make us partakers of their moments of zozobra, at a time of their lives as important as that, as that of retirement. And he says, "Why didn't you just vote for her?". Yes, well, then, because, in fact, even though it is our text, the course of time, 12 years, makes us have had experiences, which was what I mentioned earlier, and that we can make better strategic approaches, which is what we come to tell. He was told by Mr Pastor how this issue is alive in the Congress of Deputies. There is also another, there is a non-law proposal for Compromís, signed by Mr Ignasi Candela, which, in fact, captures the basic operative part of the text that you have brought here; what happens is that Mr Candela is much more creative than you in the explanatory statement, much more. An excellent explanatory statement, in my opinion. But I do not see that there are any problems in channelling these two approaches, which is what we have done here. We have guided those two approaches. And I even think it's a good vision. Mr Damborenea was telling us that, although he has progressed in the last few days and has approached these positions to live better – I was saying – and you are living better now and we are abstaining; great, something we have already achieved, something you have already achieved with this initiative. But he was talking to us about... I don't know if he was referring to the extravagance or part of the futility of the text that we put forward. No, it's not. It's not like that. What is initially done is determination of the object of the measures, determination of the measures. The first point identifies the measures. Those possible – in many cases – deficiencies, which are deficiencies. That makes the first point of our text agree. The second point is urged. And I sign that agreement, I also urge – I am part of it – I urge the government of the state to request the study. The one requesting the study, the one having to request the study, is the Government of the State. I mean, I'm not paying for that study. It's the government. Read it, read it. It is the Government of the State that requests the study. In the third point, the Government of the State should refer the relevant study to the Toledo Pact. I believe that this is a good agreement, and it sets a guideline or can set a guideline for those two lines to converge with the Toledo Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Euscala Popular's representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u87	I don't think you guys think you're right, because you're still cheating everybody. Mrs Pinedo, we're not talking about unemployment. We are talking about voluntary retirement, regulated in article 208, and there is an article 207, Mr Pastor, which is the one talking about early retirement because it is not attributable to the worker. But this is not what we're talking about here today. And everyone's been talking to me about this. They're cheating, which means they don't believe what they agreed to. And stop cheating. Let's see, Mrs Pinedo, no one retires early two years earlier – it's as much as the law allows – because worse times can come. First, because within those two years you can retire at any time, i.e., "No, as prospects go wrong...", no: as a volunteer, I can retire two years earlier, or a month less, or in a year, or in six months... I mean, nobody does it because the prospects are better or worse, because they're voluntary. What happens is that the sooner you do it, of course, you're going to get less pension, and the reducing factor penalizes you more. It penalizes you more, which, by the way, makes sense. Mr Hernández, I have not said that you live well in the opposition, I have said that you live better against the government, that it is different. Because we are responsible even in the opposition, and that is why we are going to abstain, and we are not going to vote in favour. If we were like you, we'd be saying here, "Hala! Come on! We're going to vote..." And why are we only going to advance retirement to the age of 63? Hey, at 60, and with the maximum. Or, what's wrong? Why are we so cute? But we are responsible, even in opposition. And, man, you come to me saying that, of course, the initiative is not your group's, and that's why your party and your group in the Congress of Deputies are presenting a bill that says the counter of what you bring us here, is a way of doing politics, but strange. We finally gather initiatives from people who bring them to us from the street, if we believe it, make it ours and introduce it. But we present it here, we present it in Congress and we present it, the same, everywhere, and that is coherence. Of course, what you can't tell me is that being consistent is bringing an initiative here and the next month in Congress pose the counter, because your group has raised the opposite in the Congress of Deputies. Yo, what do you want me to say? And on top of that you tell me that you don't give a damn about the report you're doing and that you've signed it because they sign it, because that's the way it is. Well, we see, at last, the nature of this agreement and how far it will go. Pastor, "What's worth is what's approved in Congress." Indeed, we will see what you approve in the Congress of Deputies. And don't cheat on me with the PNL, with your Socialist Party proposal you've made, because it was for forced early retirements, and that's why I was talking about layoffs, that's why I was talking about layoffs. And here we're not talking about those, we're talking about volunteers, we're talking about "Because I feel like it." Don't cheat on me. Everyone here, when everyone cheats and talks about forced rather than voluntary, is that something doesn't fit either of you. Including, of course, Mr Aiartza. Of course, I don't know if you're in favour of or against the Toledo Pact. I have quoted it because you quote it in your transaction and say it refers to the Toledo Pact. Well, look, he's referring to the Toledo Pact. That's fine with me. Now, someone has also said that the People's Party has passed by and I don't know where the Toledo Pact is. I would like to remind you that it was Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, if I recall correctly, who froze the pensions outside the Toledo Pact. I mean, to comment, and that in the last five years no group in this House has been willing to reach any consensus on social security, not even when Minister Fatima Báñez, those forcibles who lost part of their pension because the last few years had gone to unemployment and could not contribute, when she proposed to change the legislation so that they could choose the best years, those that were best suited to them, voted against them all. And that's called irresponsible opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To finish up, EH Collect Group's representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u89	Good morning again. We're still fresh. Yeah. It seems everyone here is arguing about who the son is. To me, the truth is, that seems to me... Personally, I don't care much. What matters to me is those people who have seen themselves in this situation. Mr Damborenea, I, when I spoke of unemployment, have, of course, spoken with knowledge of cause. Yes, of course, because it seems to me wrong what is being done, and that you come to me here to say that the People's Party at least put something on the table to try to solve the situation of people who were forced into early retirement because they had been expelled from the labour market, as if you had had nothing to do with that expulsion from the labour market, it seems to me to be the lemon pear, Mr Damborenea. The lemon pear! And by the way, I'm not going to follow much longer, because I think everyone wants to lift the wing. Mr. Pastor, you've finally had to come back to answer me because you've been able to instinct. Look, Congressional Gazette of Deputies, and what EH Bildu proposed was: "It urges the Government to proceed with the immediate transfer to the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre of all outstanding competences relating to social security..." – which is what the Statute says. He says: "... concerning the legislative development, the implementation of the basic legislation of the State and the management of the economic system of social security". Point. This is what comes in the Statute of Autonomy and this is what comes in the Law of Improvement of Navarre, and you voted against it with the People's Party and the Citizens' Lords and Ladies, so to the fact, chest, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-point that Eucators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-14.u91	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
