ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "To judge for once the drawings of the whole of February 8th, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule, of the election made by the American members of the Basque Society by Javier Ruiz de Abrilo Cerio. " It was a draw, EH Collect, together with the vote of half-correction by teams of Podemos and Euskal Popula, according to the 92.1 article of the Renaissance, we're going to vote again. So we can vote. (stopping) [[Words]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u1	The vote can't fit in a vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u2	So he's not accepted. First point in theme list: "The bill of law of the Euscal Autonomyian docks and sea transport... "I don't know. I'm sorry, there's a vote, of course it's still there. If it's rejected... Don't go out with anybody, but you can't vote. If he doesn't agree, we'll vote for the Eucabertist and the Sociialist Eukal Socialists together, and we'll vote for a full-range correction. Please, those who have been late can't vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u3	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. First point in theme list: "All the corrections of the ports of Euscal Autonomia Erdigo and of the bill of transportation. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word to introduce the bill." Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u5	Quiet, please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u6	Presidents, chiefs and congressmen. Good morning, everyone. In June 2017, in the Council of Government, the bill of ports and sea transport was accepted and sent to the parliament. In September 2017, we presented ourselves at the Economics and Substructure Committee and began to discuss it. Even before we examine the contents, it must be mentioned that this law of ports is extremely cultivated, because it has been examined by several regulations, and that different attempts have been made. So, as we mentioned in June and September, we have a choice by means of this essay, that we may at once have a law of ports in the Autonomium of the Erdi. That is what we need, and for this we have placed the law of ports in your hands, and the amendments we have made. The principal objects of the bill of law are: The regulation of the law, which is applicable to ports and ports, by regulating the management of the public payer of the harbour, the structure and manner of the ports of the Escanomia Escany at Erdi, and the application of the public payer of the harbour, and the application of the harbour, as well as the regulating of the financial regulations, the order of the transport, of the travellers, and of the merchandise, and of course of mixed harbours, to fix the rules of punishment, as well as of the control and the rights of the public vault of the harbour. The province of the law is also established, as far as the ports are concerned, the sandland, the Estria, Ostria, Getari, Zumia, Deba, Mutku, Orgere, Oleitius, Lekitio, Elanchibe, Mudaka, Bermeana, Arzana, and Plentia; and it is not to be applied in the ports of Trarania, which are of general interest. With the firm conviction that this bill has to be the final one, after several attempts to bring it to this House, we established, when we sent the Ports Act to the House and when we presented it in September, the objective of reaching an agreement that allows us to equip ourselves with this Ports and Maritime Transport Act of the Basque Country. As regards the objectives, it should be noted that they are to establish the legal regime applicable to ports and port and maritime installations, to regulate the management of the port public domain, to establish the structure and functioning of the port administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, to regulate the financial economic regime, derived from the use of the port public domain and the provision of port services, to regulate the activity of the maritime transport of goods and mixed transport in those ports which are the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and also to establish the sanctioning regime in the port public domain, as well as inspection and control powers. Moreover, it should be noted that the Law provides for a harbour municipal council, which is an instrument of institutional participation, as well as social, to articulate above all the relations that can be given between the harbour administration and the municipal administrations, which are responsible in each of the harbour municipalities for those activities that are, in some way, in connection with the port. It is committed to a coexistence between the harbour activity and the daily activity in these municipalities, and it must be noted that also other normative aspects that I will mention today are that of the harbour ordination, which is centered on two basic instruments of ordination, which are the special plans of ordination of each of the ports, that regulate the urbanistic use that they will have and the delimitation of the uses and harbour spaces, in order to define what is done in each area of each of the ports. Likewise, the legal regime is established in each of the ports of Euskadi, which draws a global concept of each of the ports, the different activities and uses that take place in them and that converge in the same port space. A register of undertakings is also established, a register of undertakings operating in maritime transport, which includes the registration of such undertakings for carriage, goods and mixed-use undertakings. It is an information record, which is used for advertising purposes and which defines the content above all of the registration of the routes to be carried out, timetables and period of service, vessels and their characteristics, rates and other economic conditions. There is also or is established a police and sanctioning regime, which establishes guarantees for the preservation of the activity that takes place in each of our ports, with the exercise of powers of eviction, the recovery of possession and, on the basis of a principle of legality and the characterization of the different violations, those that are mild, serious and very serious are established. The Act also provides for the general revision of the regulation on port charges, incorporating a complete definition of port charges and the restructuring of some of the existing ones. I observed, therefore, that in this law, the Council of the Portuguese is established. What for? There is, as it were, a place where the institutions and the citizens should participate, that each council and the harbour administration should be co-operated with each other. I also mentioned that there are law regulations, records of corporations, police, etc. But you may have seen, I particularly wished to mention, that in these municipal councils, in this council of the harbours, especially in comparison with the former law, we have introduced a correction which has been mentioned that every council will have its council. This is, it will not be the only council of all ports, but every port, which is peculiar to the townships, will each belong to himself. And one of the main aspects that in this House certainly raised a problem in the presentation of the previous law was that of the reference to the constitution of the Kaiak entity. I referred to this in the Commission too, and at the moment we have tabled, in addition to that will which exists in this House, an amendment stating that the Department of Competition in Ports – i.e. the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure – will develop and exercise the port policy of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with the same functions as it currently has. And proof of that, moreover, is that we have regained the Directorate of Ports and Maritime Affairs in the Department itself, that is, the administration and development of all competition in ports and maritime affairs remains in the Government, and does not become the new entity. The amendment also proposes to modify the legal nature of public society Euskal Kirol Portuak. At the moment it is an anonymous public society, as you certainly know, and with the new proposal it would acquire the legal nature of a public entity governed by private law. To change the object, the amendment says that "with the same object and functions that this public society currently has, in order to bring together and give some coherence to all port institutions". And why do we think it is better for this current public society to become an entity? Because, at the moment, if we turn it into a public body governed by private law, those aspects which involve the executive with administrative powers remain within the scope of the public administration, which is not the case if it is an anonymous society, and all the elements of budgetary control limitation, intervention in all actions dedicated to the management of staff and so on, are perfectly assimilated to what is a public administration and within the structure of the government itself. A public body governed by private law is much more secure than an anonymous society, and we have understood that and we have established it in that amendment we have tabled. All these aspects, therefore, would remain within the public administration of the Basque Government and, from the point of view of whether it is, instead of a public society, a public entity governed by private law, we do not modify either the object or in any case the functions it currently has, but we give a management coherence to all the ports that I have cited, and which would remain under the administration of this entity, which is proving to be very successful. In other words, working in all ports with the same structures and the same mode of operation makes port management much better than previously. Therefore, being more secure and establishing that step from public society to a public body governed by private law, we understand that the operation will be much better. These are the objectives of the Act, the amendments we are submitting, and that is what we believe we should discuss at this time. Public administrative management within the Government is perfectly guaranteed and with the conversion of public society into an entity, we also understand that the management of economic and personal control remains within the Administration itself and these guarantees are perfectly established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The Representative of the EH Group has the power to defend the full correction of the word. Anybody else want to be on this side shift? No. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u8	Good morning, everyone. First, and again, as has been said, we consider it necessary to consider a law, which regulates the ports of Esscha, and which has been sent to us by the peoples of our ports, by so many agents, and by the peoples of our ports. And I say the port of equity at Essalka, and I insist on the fertility of Essalka, unfortunately, because there is no jurisdiction in this. 1032 Autonomy State. according to the article, the Euscal Autonomia Errian has an exclusive right over the ports, which are not always considered to be of general interest. This law, therefore, affects ports which are not thought to be of general interest, as it has been said by Mrs. Tapia, which are almost all fishers and leisure sports, except that of Bermeoko, which alone is the only port of commerce among our limited jurisdictions, which is directed to the carriage of merchandise, and the only harbour we can manage. The two most important ports on our sea-coast, the port of Pasadena and Saint-Puncie, which are most strategic for the development of our people, and are excluded from this law for the competency of our people. We can't handle these two port spaces, we can't handle the activities of these ports, or organize the structure of the ports. We have also denied managing the policy of the international trade in these ports. This puts us within bounds for the development of these two ports, and has an immense influence on the development of these ports, and consequently on the growth of our people and the competitive zeal for our economy. First, then, what we would like to remark is, that we should long ago have had the Jurisdictions of the two Ports of Pasaia and Saintes. The transfer of these two ports must be immediate, and must be demanded of the State to be immediately transferred. On the government, it seems as if this transfer had a priority, but we must pass through the words, as always we meet with a large wall; Spanish State. Joseph Llorca, president of Puerto del Statado, has just said that the government of Mariano Rajoy is not ready to transfer the control of these two ports. This is another pure void of our limited autonomy: This also shows our dependence on the Spanish State. But now, returning to this plan of law of ports and transport, of different governments, as is now said by Mrs. Tapia, is not the first attempt. Though four other attempts have been made, yet the management of ports is now regulated in a divided manner. We have not a law which comprehends all this, of course, with the difficulties it introduces. A law is required to ensure the integral and effective management of all ports. But though this be so, it seems to us that as soon as the bill has been introduced, it is not acceptable. Above all, we cannot allow the creation of a public institution of private law to manage our ports. As far as we are speaking of the integrated management of certain public services and substructions, we feel that the Administration should be able to manage directly by placing personal and material means necessary for this purpose. The establishment of the private law of the planet opens the way to privatization, and its sole purpose is to prevent the budget and financial inspection which regulates the administration of law, and the duties of the law of contracts by means of the springs of private law. And this has not only been our opinion, but it has been a very consistent opinion from the beginning. The same opinions were already received between the rules which had been introduced to the bill of law a few years ago. The officials of the government of transports, who participated in the prosecution of the bill before law, represented in this sense the necessary correction, in the opinion that direct management is possible. As they are public substructures, their administration would have to act directly. That is to say, word by word: What sort of agency or public rights are not created. They say, and we share this entirely, that is possible, if they are placed in the way of material and personal means. In the same way the amendments introduced by LAB and ELA, when Kai presented against the production of the public institutions of private right, were entirely opposed to the creation of the law, and the distinction of this legal formula is, that the administration of the organization is to be removed from the public control, by opening the gates of arbitraryity. As the substructures of ports are directed by immense public funds to build and support, if it is to guarantee the greatest and most severe controls, it must be prevented from producing any entity that intends to avoid the controls. It was said, with correct consideration, that the ports should be supplied with objectivity, transparency, and discrimination. In the course of the Orio, Getaria, Mutriku, Ondareria, and the several corrections introduced by the local councils of Easter, the rest went on in this way. They also said that it was a bet on the privatization of the services, and the port and installments declared that, as far as they are demanical, the management and public rights ought to be both in the hands and in the public, so that it would be possible to guarantee the effective participation of the townships in a decisive and real way of association. Even according to several reports or judgments belonging to this bill of law, it is not justified in the creation of a public organization of private rights for the integration of ports. In the essay on the Basque Treasury and the Board of Society Problems, he says, as I shall read to you in words, for he seems to us to be quite essential to our youth; "This decision of the Department, constituting a new entity called, moreover, to occupy an angular position in the configuration of the Basque port system, requires a thorough analysis and justification of the reasons that support its adoption, which we find neither in the Statement of Reasons of the Preliminary Draft nor in the documentation attached to it. "This requirement is, in that opinion of this council, especially important, since, as it has already stated in previous pronouncements, on the one hand, an effort and caution is necessary to avoid the proliferation of administrative structures that lead to oversize, duplication and inefficiencies. Secondly, in the absence of Basque legislation with sufficient criteria and guidelines to allow for discretion in the choice of legal form when creating new entities, its proposal for suitability should be justified at least in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. Finally, the timing of the decision on the creation of Kaiak requires, in addition to an in-depth DAFO analysis, an economic plan and a projection of its budgets for a period of five years. We understand that the current state of the drafting of the preliminary draft law and its annexed documents does not justify the legal form adopted by it to implement the management of the Basque port system, so we consider it necessary to incorporate into it the elements to which we have referred in this paragraph." Kontrol Ekonomikoko Bulegoaren iritzia ere oso interesgarria da éta, egin ez baduzue, hau ere osorik irakurtzea gomendatzen diszuet, baina aipatzen dituenetik azpimarragarriena Hurrengoa da: "It does not provide sufficient data to justify that the formula that forms the proposed decree is the most appropriate one of the possible existing ones to ensure a more effective and efficient implementation of the departmental policy in this matter". I think it can't be cleaner. Even in the judgment of the Juridic Committee, it is mentioned among others, that the production of this public institution of private law does not accord with the arrangement of the public Basque sector, and the bill of execution. So these reports and reports can never be more clear, but in the representation of the bill, without considering these reports and criticisms, the government continued its purpose. Even when this very project of the law was introduced in the previous legislation, we were able to continue in many instances, as opposed to the production of the docks. I'll raise my voice, because as the rumour that I hear grows higher and higher, I'll raise my voice more. Even when this bill of legislation was introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u9	Quiet, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u10	Can I continue? If not, I can't hear...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u11	Yeah, you're right. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u12	The docks were also opposed to creation. We could hear the descendants in the mouths of many, among other things. Lucius Hernando Newsgi, it was the advice of the former President of the Passaian docks, at least in the past stages, not to form such a structure as is necessary in a future or not to examine it. Felix the former director of Asensium, port, and airports, was extremely critical about the origin of the docks. He added that there is no economic report which would justify this, that this model of management will generally affect small users in negative terms, since a council of administration will decide the decisions and not the administration itself. It is very easy to establish institutions of this kind, but it is very difficult to destroy them. The representatives of the Council Offices of the Union said that they were entirely opposed to the privatization of public services, and that Caius, by creating them, saw a desire to escape the public law, for the private law is more flexible. They don't see any justification in the project, either, for the necessity of the docks, and they think that all the ports are able to handle departments directly. They asked us to argue with it. Also the representatives of the local fish trade, seen from the fishing sector, said that they themselves are not justified in the origin of this organization. The representatives of the Old Portuguese Association, formed by the inhabitants of the harbour of Bermeum, declared that they saw no need of the docks. When the EKP started to take care of the sports and port of Bermeoko, they told us of the problems they had. With other ports of Biscay, they went as far as the Supreme Court, which gave up all the contracts that had been made by EKP. EKP's management was qualified as a cinch. It was added also that for the eight sports and leisure ports of EAE there were turned against the model of the EE-Béméus, Munda, Pedernales, Lekitio, Ondare, Elanchibe, Plenzibia, and Resentery; for to-day the example of EKP. Two reasons were mentioned: that he adds nothing to it, and that the existence of EKP costs the services. So considering all this, as it was the most ordinary of all, not only the legislative groups, but all the rest of the legislatures, including the Basque Socialist, who maintains the government today, we introduced to the bill a full-correction of law, while the rest of the docks opposed to the formation of the organization and, of course, the government withdrew the bill. But, a few months later, we have been presented again with the same project of laws, but this time we were told that they will correct several accounts of the above legislation. But it is said that in the legislature they shall be directed by the corrections which have been made to the bill of law. The reason? Well, to speed up the transfer of the law so necessary that the reforming of the law would take a very long time. At least that's what they told us. At first we understood the justification of this practice, partly because we partake of the necessity of law. But we've got a great deal to worry about. Is this the only reason? Save time? Or is it another of the reasons why there are many legal and economic reports necessary in the procedure of a law project? I leave it there. The report by the Substructure, which answers the corrections that had been presented to the project, is very clear that it was the fundamental principle that Kai maintained in the production of a public organization of private rights. Now, however, this principle seems to have changed, according to the exposition of the bill the chief physician gave them, and to the explanation which he has given to-day. Two groups of legislatures supporting the government will be able to describe several corrections between us and they have done so. One of these corrections seems to take away the public institutions of private law, and to create a public organization of private law, where the Portuguese of Escatanists are only to be managed by the port of sport and leisure, and to represent the public society of private law, the legal figure of the Euscatanian Museum at the present day. And, it seems, we find ourselves in the presence of some uncertainty. We don't know exactly what this government's plan of managing our ports is exactly determined. On the one hand, the port of fishing and merchandise will directly govern the Administration, and the ports for sport and leisure by a public institution of private right? With the structure of today EKP, how can the integral management of all our ports be supported in this way? This won't bring a double? As far as the EKP's current structure is concerned, seven people form the crew, if I may not be mistaken. And all the other workers are under control. There wasn't made to hire those seven employees, but never a public contest or a list of jobs. Besides, there are three of these seven jobs, including the Director of EKP, without any contact with the ports. Why are they in the Gaste Name? Wouldn't it be more logical to be near the harbors? Just to say it. I think there's a few offices left, this means a clean integrity. And are the fees of the high rates equal to those in the Administration? Well, in any case, these expenses are doubled. The having of two structures doubles the expenses, and always there is no doubt about them. Insurance expenses, advertising expenses, bank services, computer applications services, and so on. The Web page, too, is double, and the means of keeping the Web page. There is a cabinet in the conduct of the press, and this is not to be doubled either. Even the support of the journals is doubled. On the one hand, EKP and the other, the Department. Isn't the administration itself able to organize and protect these events? And the inspection and the hearing would not be necessary if the management of the administration were to lead, because the Administration has its means to inspect and control. A clean reproduction, even in this one. We do not clearly see the functions which this renewed contributions would produce, especially because we do not see that there should be even the EKP today. To mention some reasons, one: there is no need for EKP, or anything like that to assign docks to ports as sports and ease. The dock managers do it and they can do it. In fact, here's the final order, October 19, 2017, Chief Economics Development and Substructure. The harbour manager wrote and consented to this command which regulates the course of the settlement, and there are managers of the administration and contributors of the administration to do it. The White Ports make a call, and no one else decides to make decisions. And this doesn't have to be changed. Two. The marketing process of the locals in sports dats can be performed by legal advice of port management, just as it handles other ladies and permits. The criteria should be placed by the port director, not by EKP. Three. In order to do the assignments and contracts on the work, there are three directors of the Port Management and the technical engineer for five public works. Projects don't have to go outside, or the direction of the obs, just as the work of the "Portaavius" building has occurred with the direction of the director. EKP will pay, but the harbour directors have paid their ratings because EKP hasn't got any good personals for these jobs, but EKP took out the management of the works. Four. To make a purchase, how much budget do you need in the EKP shopping section? I mean, to do small shopping, what's the criteria? Do these criteria come with the criteria for the White Board? Five. The service of the Mariner and maintenance is now hired by the EK (in 2018, there is a charge of 1400,000 euros planned for this), although the port manager has been employed to do these jobs. Firekeepers, captains of dockers, pawns, they've got jobs in a public tournament. So there are workers. Six. As far as we know, in certain ports, in Placentia, in the Arma, Mudakan, Bermeon, or Mutricun, the workers are doubled, or, more correctly, they are excluded from the workers of the dock management, to enter the centuries of EKP, when they are not necessary. Seven. The administration is a guard service for the whole year of the Bermeian port, and, for the time of summer, is directly hiring the Guard Service of Donostania. EKPk, on the other hand, of sand, from Getari and Orio. If they're all in a contract, wouldn't it be better? Eight. Something similar happens with the laundry service. The Biscay has been hired as a portly manager for the western toilet service. Thus, under the care of EKP, even the ladies who are in possession of this contract are, as it were, subject to this contract. On the seaports of China, on the other hand, there are two contracts. One made by the harbour manager and the other by EKP. Of course, it would be cheaper if they were hired at the same time. Besides, there's no point in duplicating the cleanup service. The bins, the procedures... Moving a tracking is much easier. Well, there's a lot of reason for that. Lastly, not because it is of less importance, how is the management of the ports for sport and leisure to be managed? Will EKP handle those rates? For instance, in 2016, $1200,000 was paid to EKP, unless it's wrong, through management data, by encommenda. Is it necessary to do it through the EKP? In the Economic Control Bureau's report, isn't it the right management of the tas? Besides, it must be considered that EKP is not a command of the docks, and that command of many functions is necessary. So we could give you as many examples, but I have only a limited time. If there was no justification for the construction of the docks for every port, how can it be understood that the Eukadian Ports were founded by the public institution of private law in order to manage ports for sport and leisure? Is the organization justified? Do we have any economic and legal reports? Or is this, as I said before, to avoid? Are we afraid of what these reports would say? I don't think so. As all these reports, which these opposite opinions were not taken notice of, do not appear to me at this time to be any different in this government. It seems to us that the most just would be to take care of all these things, and correct them. Even in the occurrences we have been able to follow in this legislation, the representatives of LA, ELA, CCOO and UGT unions have continued the same argument. They do not at all see the origin of the Caacaks, which is recorded in the Law, or even the re-opening of the Basque Sports Ports which seems to be trying to create. And of course we agree with them. We continue to collect EH from the legislature team that the direct and most effective management is the direct administration of the Administration by providing the necessary material and personal means. So, if this is so, we've saved the whole correction of the Euscal Autonomy portes and sea transport bill, and we're asking the Basque parliamenter to return the bill to Esquie. We'd like to ask you to review this bill of law by removing the idea of creating new structures that are not necessary for the management of docks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u13	Thank you, Madam Mount. We'll go in reverse shift. Who's got to be a part of it? Then the Basque Socialist has the word, Mr. Aezana.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Miss Olivet, I've seen you in the past for a while. After all, you've come in a way to give reason to the two teams that support the government, because we can agree on many arguments you've put on the table, and besides, that's obvious in our amendments. I will not hide that I agree with you at the beginning of the text, in your amendment to the whole, in which we consider a law essential. I believe that there have been several attempts by different governments to pass a law on this, and I hope and hope that this will be the final one. I do not hope and wish, I am convinced that this will be the final one. In addition, we share it absolutely for two reasons. First, on a competitive issue. After all, article 10.32 of the Statute of Autonomy shows this competence, it became real by Royal Decree 900/2011 of 24 June and, finally, with the competence assumed, we understand that it is time to have a law on this matter that governs and allows us to properly manage this issue. But I have seen him too far ahead; for now, we are going to do the duties we have pending. You claimed a competition that is the competition of ports of general interest. For now, we have the competition we have, we will regulate the gerokoak age, ikusiko dugu. And yes, of course, we see a need for regulation that sort of orders an issue that is currently quite fragmented. I believe that the object of the Law is clear, it is perfectly defined, we note that it is perfectly necessary and, moreover, I believe that we are already beginning to urge this issue. But it has given me the feeling that your amendment as a whole is absolutely supported by the previous text. It gives me the feeling that you have ignored not only the appearance that Mrs Tapia made in the relevant committee at the time, but also ignored the amendments tabled, as she said, by the groups that we support the Government. I am not going to hide from you that, if it had depended on me, perhaps the processing would have been different and, moreover, for the sake of time, I believe that the issue would not have changed very much. I think it's urgent, as I said. Therefore, we had to try a path that somehow did not return us to an initial point and did not delay the processing of this law again. What perhaps would have been as quickly as the groups we support to the Government would have put forward a bill? I am not going to hide it from you, but it is no less true that as far as the journey is concerned, that as far as times are concerned, I do not think it has changed too much, and moreover, the explanations of the adviser I think were perfectly sufficient for us all to take into account or realize the dimension of the issue, what was the will of the Government and, therefore, that will and that journey were perfectly clear. Therefore, an ordinary procedure I believe would have delayed much longer, and it did not make much sense either, in view of the fact that we all have very clear what the object and the way forward was. And, to a large extent, your amendment to the whole pivots on the Kaiak issue and has devoted a lot of time to turning the Kaiak issue around, something that is perfectly discarded. That is to say, it is true that the text of the Law says so, but it is no less true that Mrs Tapia showed the Government's willingness to dismiss that entity and, more importantly, as she repeated, if you have had the opportunity to analyse in detail the amendments tabled jointly by the Basque Socialist parliamentary group and the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group, you will have observed that Kaiak is absolutely discarded. Therefore, the arguments you have put on the table I understand that are not valid. In this matter they are not valid, you can go back to that question again and again, but it makes no sense in view of the will expressed by the Counsellor and of those amendments already registered. The Basque Socialist parliamentary group considers, as they point out in their amendment to the whole, that direct management is possible, and the Government has also understood this. And we understand that by making a differentiation of the different ports, of the different characteristics of the ports with which we count in Euskadi, it can be realized in different ways. That the governance that was at the time derived from the Kaiak entity can be assumed by the Administration... is already assumed, is the bet that this Government makes, is the bet that the two groups that support it make, and so it is evident in that amendment to the whole. I therefore believe that this issue is perfectly ruled out. And then you charge against EKP, and then I'll come back to the issue. It is true that in the end, on this issue, on the question of Kaiak, we understand that time has come to give us reason. We were fully convinced that Kaiak was not necessary, so we said in the last legislature, so we continue to maintain it, so it will be, in accordance with our criteria and also in accordance with, as you have rightly pointed out, what the different entities, the different associations, the different social movements that came to appear during the last legislature and that have maintained that same criterion those who have appeared in committee at your request during this same legislature. As I said, in his own amendment to the whole he refers to the position of my parliamentary group during the last parliamentary term. He will have realized that we have not moved any apex on it, no, no, no apex on it. And from here, to a large extent, the future of this law will depend on the agreements that we reach during the process, during the adoption and discussion of the amendments tabled. I have no doubt, on that issue I do not think we have any greater problems, in view of what you have expressed and in view of the fact that it coincides with our vision. But, well, to avoid any doubt. You were wondering in your amendment to the whole: Will the Administration directly manage the fishing and merchandise ports and a private public entity the sports and leisure ports? The answer is, if it were up to us, yes. How is comprehensive management guaranteed? For I understand that there may be coordination mechanisms between the Administration and that body, which will allow it, I understand that there is no difficulty in doing so, and I have also been perfectly explained by the Counsellor in her speech. I believe that there is also an issue which we believe is fundamental and which is going to be possible, whether we really believe all groups to be so or a parliamentary majority to be so, as soon as municipal councils are set up that will also enable the administration and also the public body under private law to be better coordinated to which Euskal Kirol Portuak will become. How is the creation of an entity like Euskal Kirol Portuak understood? Well, look, I think it's simple. We understand that features, specificities, management and dimension have absolutely nothing to do with Kaiak. Mixing Kaiak with Euskal Kirol Portuak makes no sense, because it has absolutely nothing to do with it, absolutely nothing to do with it. And she has perfectly explained it to him, that is, to assimilate what is now an anonymous society with what is going to become a public entity under private law has nothing to do with it. What's more, I think it makes a lot more sense for you to acquire that condition right now than the condition you currently have. It covers the whole sense of the world, it is infinitely more secure, it has a direct link with the Administration, control and management depend directly in some way on the Administration itself. Therefore, I think it comes to us to reason to a large extent within the arguments that you have put on the table. I think the object doesn't have to vary, it's going to have certain competences, it's going to have a certain object. And it's going to have some characteristics, a certain legal regime. But it is a legal regime that, as I said, will allow the Administration to have direct control over that public body, even though it is under private law. Therefore, we understand that it is a much more effective, much more secure tool. You were talking about the fees. Well, look, control, given that the legal specificity of that entity is going to vary, that control is going to be much more direct. The Administration will be able to control much better and will be able to control that body much better. I therefore believe that in our amendments, if you have been able to observe this, I believe that the functions, the competences, the control are perfectly defined. It will be in your hands whether you approve or not or make it possible to do so. I think it can be, and I think that somehow you and we aren't that far away, we're not that far away. It has put management issues on the table, which I believe is far ahead of us. I believe that the first priority is to pass this law, that we are able to make an effective, efficient law, according to the needs and according to the wishes of the majority of this House, and from there we will see how it is managed. But I believe that the amendments we have tabled make it perfectly clear and perfectly clear that this management can be much more effective, that it can be much better and that it is also the will of the Government itself. Therefore, given that in our amendments we absolutely reject the creation of an entity such as Kaiak, that we perfectly define what is the object, what is the legal reason for Euskal Kirol Portuak, what are its tasks and what can be that management model, and that it is going to have a direct link with the Administration itself, I do not see any major problems for you to approve them. And if, moreover, the creation of these municipal councils remains evident, which, as I said, can be a tool that will help a lot more to make this coordination between entities much stronger and, moreover, allow the Administration to have a much more direct knowledge of the problems, not as a whole of the ports, but specifically of each of the ports that we have in Euskadi through those municipal councils, I believe that this Law not only comes to be more than necessary, but I believe that it will meet the expectations that all of us have about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u16	Señora presidentata, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. This is not especially a statement to defend the Euscadian harbors and the Sea Transport Act. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the legislature know that we're on the side of it. I'm taking the word against the correction of the full value introduced by the EH Collectors. If you read, and not necessarily carefully, the text presented for the entry amendment is not surprising, because in three-quarters it is the same that they presented in 2016 before the same bill presented in the previous legislature. And so it has its logic: you present the same Law, we present the same amendment. But it is necessary to give some explanations and establish some clarifications that make that logic fall apart. On the very day of the presentation of this project by the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure to the relevant committee, exactly on September 14, 2017, he explained that, under the circumstances, we would say, of a procedural economy, the Government had chosen to refer to Parliament the same project that it had submitted, although only a few months earlier, in a previous legislature. And logically, thinking that the previous draft had involved the unanimous practice of being amended in its entirety, there was an initial surprise, which in the second sentence of the counsellor was relieved, while acknowledging that such opposition and, moreover, knowing that it was a specific issue, was willing to solve it. We talked about the show and talked about the meeting after that, we agreed to file the law to remove the two teams that protect you from the funk. These are the persons who brought generalizing correction from other groups. In fact, it was about the same thing: As a cascadian harbour manager concerned with creating public institutions. In short, rather than opting to redo a new law and redo the infinite procedures it requires, it was chosen, since it was a law much debated earlier, to forward a law plus a few amendments. In fact, the last one to speak in that session was myself with the following words – and I open quotes –: "By the way, amendments that already have them on their computers, they already have them and, therefore, we are now sharing them all; and I hope that, as from the minute one is already sharing the amendments, we will soon be able to agree." I close quotes. That is to say, our amendments, at least as far as substantial amendments to the Act are concerned, have been at your disposal since 14 September, that is to say, six months ago, which I understand is sufficient time to analyse and take a stand, which has generally occurred in almost all groups that have submitted a large battery of partial amendments, except EH Bildu, which has been repeated with the amendment as a whole. After describing the process of transmigration of this law, it is still more difficult to understand that we have submitted the full correction of last year's text. For the text of the Law was the same, but quite different from those of right. Other parliamentary groups have also understood that, including the Basque Socialists, the teams. He too gave him the full correction and, no doubt, had not, by correction, changed certain aspects, he would not have accepted them either. In this sense, it could be understood that the amendment to the whole of EH Bildu, although in its argumentary essentially burden, and today we have seen it also in its oral presentation, against the creation of the Kaiak public body, could not in itself be an amendment to the creation of the Kaiak public body, because with the amendments referred to the groups such an entity disappeared. Let us say that this is a preventive amendment, in so far as what we had publicly stated to all the parliamentary groups did not comply with it, in so far as the amendments we had said and referred that we were going to present them did not present them, in so far as we were liars, cheaters. It's a mistrust amendment. And if someone starts things with mistrust, then it costs a lot more to straighten us out. I would like to thank the other groups, which have not repeated their amendments in their entirety, for the confidence shown in our group and the Socialist Group, believing that what we said was going to be fulfilled, as has happened. We've done it. Which leads me to think that it could have been a good opportunity for EH Bildu, once we have checked our sincerity, to withdraw the amendment. But no. We can see that they are still suspicious and thinking that we may probably withdraw the amendments again. In fact, the amendment is so similar to the previous draft that, based on three quarters of the previous amendment, it refers to allegations submitted to the previous draft and refers to appearances made in the previous draft, as well as to reports of the Legal Advisory Commission or the Economic Control Office, which did not find sufficient justification for the creation of Kaiak. But if we said from the very first moment that Kaiak was gone! But the amendment itself, which I insist, is a copy of the previous one, in its last paragraphs broadens the originality to indicate that – I open quotes – "we were advanced that the two parliamentary groups that support the Government are going to submit a series of amendments and, it seems, one of those amendments will collect the elimination of the public entity Kaiak to create the public entity Euskadiko Kirol Portuak, which will manage only sports and leisure ports". I close quotes. Here at least there's sincerity. But if in the same amendment they admit that we have told them that Kaiak will disappear, what does the whole argument against Kaiak come from? The text continues like this – I open quotes again –: "And we say, it seems, yes, because we are faced with uncertainty. We do not know how the project of management of our ports that this government has is concrete." And I close quotes. And from there he asks a number of questions and points out in a final paragraph that they think that the best management is the direct management of the Administration. Well, they say, "We were told as if it were a corridor conversation. But they were formally told by the adviser in a Commission, we were told by the Nationalist and Socialist parliamentary groups in a committee and we sent them the amendments by mail, as I have already said. A lot of mistrust. That's all there is. First three quarters of the amendment mistrusting us to amend the Act. The last quarter mistrusting themselves for whether we were presenting the amendments and then arguing about them. Or the first part, because the text was the same as a year ago, or the second, because the text renewed with the amendments does not convince. But the two result from a misconception... They're like a loop. The first recurrent part of the previous correction set has been explained in the corresponding set of corrections. So this second part would stay. However, it does not appear to be an absolute correction, if the only argument is that you do not know how the management project of our ports is determined. That had a solution. You've had a chance to solve it by correcting it. And in your speech today, the same thing, Kaiak. And the only thing they do in the amendment is a series of questions that are: First. Will the Administration directly manage the fishing and merchandise ports and a public entity the sports and leisure ports? Objection, yes, says the amendments to the Act. Second question. How will the comprehensive management of all our ports be ensured in this way? Challenge: because the ownership of the manager of the fishing port and of the goods and the sportsman is of the same institution and of the same department, and that is what the Law and its amendments put it. And last question. Is the creation of Euskadiko Kirol Portuak justified? Well, man, that question might have been asked in 2000, which is when Euskadiko Kirol Portuak was created. The only thing the Act does is to consolidate it after 18 years of operation and transform it into a public body, which gives it more character as a public body. And if they had read the amendments thoroughly, they would already know. It seems that they are basically concerned about the administrative model of management, and in the preliminary draft law it is very clear: "The ports will be managed in general by the Administration itself, and its leisure and sports sections also by the Administration itself but through a public entity called Euskadiko Kirol Portuak". On the one hand. And this is because, on the one hand, a port has some major missions, which are fisheries and commercial, aspects that this Law contemplates with a series of rules and regulations, managed directly by the Basque public administration, which is the holder of them. In the same way, and seeing little by little in the ports, new sports and leisure activities have been gradually developing, to produce events from the moorings of the ships. The law foresees that the Euscatian Museum will hitherto govern the public society, the public society, the public society, the inhabitants of the Basque ports, the deserts which are not commercial. EKP was created to directly manage the port service in the field of sports ports, when this activity was still emerging, scarce, and little experience was exercised under concession regime to private bodies. And it was decided to turn it into a public service through a public society, because the specific requirements and characteristics of port services and operations in the field of sports ports, with a much more commercial component and which are provided in a continuous and not sporadic way, and are much more similar to a commercial or hospitality activity than to a purely administrative activity of docking and docking of boats, require an organization, we understand, differentiated from the Administration, the same as Eusko Tren, for example, was created for the management of the public service of the railway. These commercial activities to be developed in a sports port, with this law is intended to be developed through the already existing EKP. EKP is not created, exists, and is given the character of a public entity by providing it with the capacity to settle and collect fees, and it is endowed with instruments that improve its competitive position in an emerging market and a management autonomy of an entity that will exercise its activity by combining public service criteria with those strictly business. EKP has independent legal personality, specialized, is part of the institutional administration, because its personality is only an organizational technique to give autonomy to a specific portion of the general interests of the Administration. The provision of services is governed by public law, two things being covered by such services, which is called public property benefit, price, and public tax benefits, fees. And this will be possible by giving through this Law the character of public entity, managing part of the port public domain exercising administrative powers that are governed by administrative law. In short, competition in sport ports, which is the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, is exercised directly by the Basque Autonomous Community, which is the political holder of the Basque Autonomous Community through EKP SA, which is an instrumental means of the Basque Autonomous Community. In short, the management model provided for in the Law, there is and is clear, another thing is that you like the proposal well or badly, but that the proposal is clear there is no doubt, and of course, without appealing to amendments to the whole, from corrections made with partial amendments, you could have proposed your alternative management model for ports if they did not like it. The problem is that either they have not read the amendments tabled by our group and that of the Basque Socialists, or they have preferred to go directly to an amendment to the whole in order not to get mixed up in the search for a better model than they have been able to observe in the Law, although it may also be that, as in so many other things, it is possible that this different model may not have it. Basically, to support this amendment is not to accept that the partial amendments that have been tabled definitively amend the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, Madam Ottagon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u18	Yeah. Mr. Tellegio's lack of confidence and I'm not going to listen to him at all, but I'll tell you one thing: To compare the Eusko Railway and the EKP... I've read all the corrections, all of them, I don't know if you've made them, because we've introduced 31 partial corrections, we haven't stopped in the correcting of the whole thing, as you've meant to say. 31 partial correction. What are these partial corrections based on? Well, in implanting our model, it's either the docks or the EKP, or whatever it is, but the Administration can manage all the ports directly by its own means. You didn't even read them or don't know, or you wanted to make everyone else understand that we didn't do our job the right way. Well, Mr. Adezana, I'm not anarchified in the past, I'm not. Either you didn't understand me or you didn't want to understand me. It's different. I have tried to prove with all my eloquence, both with the whole correction, and with the word of today, that the figure of creating the public organization of private rights is not necessary, to be able to manage all the harbours, to manage EKP easily and sports ports. I don't care, it's a legal form that we don't see understand, it's not justified at all. You know, you know, you know, you've already known me well enough, and you know how I work, too much, you know, I've read all the corrections, Mr. Aziza, or not? Well, I don't care if I don't. In the first place, you opposed the production of new institutions by betting on direct management, now, as you wish to dress, but the only one you have done is what is unforgivable, I suppose. We talked a great deal with the lords of Ella and Azkue, who were your associates, about this in the previous legislation, and in those conversations shared with them: That he has a capacity for managing all ports, that he must end with butterflies, that he is not a proper juridic form... But, of course, now you're in the government, oh my God! Of course, now it must be justified, which was the first unforgivable, isn't it? Well, I'll leave it there. You're right, in a little way. Madame Tapia has also stated, that the legal form which is now intended to be given to EKP, or by those corrections which I have read, has been done by the law of yours to change the legal form of EKPri, which now exists. Yes, it is true that this juridic form is more developed. Of course, I won't doubt that, and I think that's the way I agreed to it at the Board itself. If he's a Garantist, of course. The question is, whether or not it is necessary to keep a parallel structure, when the management of ports itself has sufficient means of conducting direct management in all respects: both fish and seaports, and sports and leisure ports, all of them. First of all, two years ago, what might have been possible, Mr. Aziza, is it not possible now? What's changed? Tell me, what's changed? You've heard the words of your colleagues, "It's not necessary," now it's true, now it's possible. The 9/1997 laws of June 1997, concerning the Basque Economics and the Board of Society, amongst others, establish the nature and functions of this committee. First of all, in the Law, this committee is a sign that it is not on Christmas floor, nor on behalf of the parliament to fulfil its duty. And according to what is received in the Article of the Law, in the nature of the Commission, the other is to perform the following Offices: It is essential to give reports of legal abuses connected to economic policies, except to account for the statements about law abuses of the general budget, about economic policies, and about the projects that are supposed to be of great importance to me, and to make decisions or decisions about these two subjects, to make decisions, to make decisions on themselves or to please myself. The law will also be able to ask questions. Thus the law itself receives it, and I will bring it to the latter: The law can ask questions too. Our plan is based on all that I have said before, and I want to see that it is justified by examining the partial corrections which have been introduced from the different legal teams of legislation, but above all by the Eucomitantists and by the laws of the Socialists, as we have said, it is quite possible to change the bill, as well as by the legislatures which protect this government. In the report made in the government of transports, as I have already mentioned, Kai receives very clearly that it is the fundamental principle which pre-eminently supported the production of public institutions in private rights. But, as has been said, it is very possible by rights to change this principle. And we find it inevitable that before anything has been changed, or that Ease patriots have discussed the legislatures and the laws of the Basque Socialists, before they begin to discuss the amendments which the Euscadian Portuguese would consider the propriety of creating the public organization of private law. We therefore advance, if this whole correction is not accepted, it seems not to be accepted, but, of course, and when it constitutes the power to discuss the partial corrections which have been introduced, before it begins at all, we shall require a report to the Basque Treasury and Social Communciation Committee: We want to see that it is justified, not by you, but by a competent organ, that it is justified in creating an organization with this particular legal form. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u19	Thank you, Madam Mount. In the turn of the answers, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezezez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Today I discovered a Mrs. Otamendi I didn't know. I've seen her too angry. In other matters, you don't usually get so upset. These issues need to be taken much more calmly. Man, I can understand that you guys could've gotten the play out of you. I respect him and I understand that it bothers him, what we're going to do to him. Anyway, you reload the inks now on EKP. He seems to have realized that Kaiak's subject is already completely discarded. Welcome, it's about time. It could have been realized from the same moment that Mr Tellería told him, that it was when he was sent through Mr Tellería himself that we were going to table the amendments that both groups were going to table. By the way, I think it was an exercise not only of responsibility, but of transparency. I think it is also something that is often not very common, because we could have kept the letters and went face-to-face from the beginning so that you could see that we were going face-to-face, we were going face-to-face and that that was the bet of the two groups that we supported the Government. I don't think they can hide that from us. I think very few times it happens. Not in this Parliament, any parliament. And we went face to face so that you could really see what our will was. Anyway, if they've managed to get off the donkey, I'm glad. I would ask you a question, because then you have loaded all the inks on the EKP. Did any appearance in the last legislature request the elimination of EKP as an anonymous company? No, no, I have reviewed all the appearances and in those appearances most of the participants said that the operation had to be improved, that it could be more effective, that there was much more room for improvement, but no one questioned it. In any case, someone who called it into question, you see, came to give us reason and at some point requested that the legal regime of that society vary. I've reviewed all the appearances from upstairs. You said that we were opposed to creating new entities, that our positioning has varied. It's just that we still think there's no need to create a new entity. But Euskal Kirol Portuak is already created. We have never opposed it and at no time have we said that it has to disappear. We have said that it has to vary from legal to legal. We agree with the change in the legal regime, because such a change in the legal regime entails, among other things, greater control by the Administration itself over that society, and it seems very good to us. In addition, I believe that there may be not only control, but coordination, tools that allow this entity to be much more effective and respond much faster and much more efficiently to requests that, for example, come from the municipal councils, which, by the way, was also a claim of ours in the last legislature and which can now be met through the amendments we have tabled. I don't see any more trouble. I therefore believe that this change of regime is not the creation of a new entity, but the improvement of an existing entity. That's how we understand it and that's why we support it. Therefore, what I was saying to you, our positioning has not come to change. Moreover, I believe that in many of the arguments you have put on the table you have come to strengthen our position, our approaches and what we have been claiming in the past legislature and in previous bills. So, I'm not going to argue with you. That the processing could have been another? Of course, but you probably would have wanted that processing to be back at the beginning, and this government would have introduced a new bill, with all that that entails, with the temporary delay that that entails. And then, if you could, you would also have put sticks back on the wheel to try to prove that this government is not able to bring forward a law that is more than necessary. Well, look, they've been singing in their teeth, I'm sorry, they've had their frog play. This time it's going to be. This time it will be that Euskadi will have a law of ports, and it will have it as soon as possible, and that, moreover, the processing of the amendments will be, I hope and wish, a rapid processing. And I also believe that, in view of the analysis we have been able to make of all the amendments tabled, there is very likely to be broad agreement and I think that this should be a reason for satisfaction. I regret that the move did not go well with them, but, in this case, I understand that it was not a question of a move, but a question of bringing forward a law that not only users are claiming, but that the Administration itself requires it for itself, because it is within the scope of our competence and it is already time to have that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u22	Thank you, ma'am. I will be very brief, because the management model I have explained sufficiently in the amendments and in the law is explained. And I have read your amendments, Mrs Otamendi, of course I have read them! You don't have an alternative model. If they had had an alternative model, they would have moved it in the entire text of the amendment. I am not discussing the partial amendments today. We have come here to discuss an amendment to the whole and the amendment to the whole it has sent is a modelled copy of what it sent two years ago and therefore do not transfer a model. In fact, I say again, they say: "We do not know how the project of management of our ports that this government has is concrete." It says so, and we have made it concrete. But the management model is not just the legal form of public services, it is not just the form. You, I repeat, have worked with mistrust, with the mistrust that when we told them that we were going to submit amendments, we were not going to do so. And we gave them to you from the first minute and, therefore, you have worked with mistrust instead of trusting in it and working on the amendments that we were going to refer to. And once he has given up protesting so much for Kaiak, since he is going to disappear, Euskal Kirol Portuak resumes. Euskal Kirol Portuak has existed since 2000, since 2000, and now it is given a character, if it is more public, I have told you, and the Law appears even more public. And we believe that the business of fishing and marketing in the face of sports... are two differentiated businesses, which have to have differentiated governance models. Another thing is how you do that public model, that also appears in the Law, that no one gets involved, only you get involved in what kind of society it's going to be. In any case, we will insist that this is the ideal model of starting public services, how they have to be given, and then we will see in the regulations, in the decrees, how to give it. And if you want to ask the Economic and Social Committee for a report, as if you are asking the UN General Assembly!, you can do so. I also say to you, I could have asked you earlier, and you are not going to delay the presentation because you are now asking the Economic and Social Committee for a report. You can see that all the time they want to delay, I don't know why, they insist that the Ports Act has to exist, but at the same time they try not to approve it. But the presentation has to be made next week. As soon as we have a committee we will start working, and if the Economic and Social Committee wants to send us a report and you ask for it, you are delighted with life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote... We're voting, we're voting. We'll vote for the bill to come back to my place, yes or no. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u24	So it doesn't come back, it won't come back to you. Next, a vote, Mr. Damborena, representative of the Basque Potula, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tellería, you will acknowledge that the procedure in this Law has been at least sui generis. We did rely on the amendments that you said you were going to put forward and in order to see if we reached an agreement, of course, we abstained, but we had to put forward the same amendments that we tabled two years ago, because the legal text that is going to be processed is the same as two years ago. And to the same text, the same amendments. And you will understand that we could not amend the amendments that you were going to put forward. Now, in that paper, I don't know whether an agreement will be reached or not, as quickly as some have announced or not, but we do have to say one thing. When an anonymous company such as EKP becomes a public entity governed by private law, the accounts are amended, the balance sheets are changed, the budgets are changed. You argue that EKP controls or manages all Basque ports in sport, which it does not do today, which it does not do today and today it does not happen in all Basque ports. And finally, someone will have to explain to us why it's good that it's EKP and they can't be the users of those ports. And what they'll have to convince us of, too... because in the process of this Law, of course, the People's Group is going to defend the interests of the users, and if this approach that you are doing to us, because in the end it is going to be the users who will end up paying, you have to see if this new social structure of EKP is going to entail an overcost and that overcost is going to be transferred to the users. And these things we are going to put to you in the presentation and I hope that we will come to an agreement that will benefit the users of the sports ports, because the rest remains the same. And here, in the end, your approach with EKP is to affect the users of the sports ports, and let me remind you that we are going to defend the users of the sports ports. And by the way, the headquarters is in Vitoria, because when it was originally created, that only managed the marina of Fuenterabía, the president is that it was from here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u27	Well, good morning, everybody. Our party has declared themselves in favor of the total correction of the arguments expressed by the Mysteries, because they are just. They say it's wrong to form an organization of private law for managing sports ports. We know that the government has explained that the rate will be able to collect, but in this case we must also consider that the functions of this organization will also be the functions of hiring workers and digesting, and in these cases the public control is essential and will be shaken. I will simply read a paragraph in the explanatory statement of the law itself, of the draft law of ports which says: "To guarantee to all users specialized services and under the same standards of quality, and all this with the guarantee, transparency and rigour in the control that only the public administration can guarantee". This is said in the explanatory statement and then a public body under private law is put in place. But in this case, why haven't we made a full correction? The legal nature of Euscadianport is a part of the law, but nothing else. We think we need a law for the Basque ports, which is why we prefer to make partial amendments and not a whole. Does that mean we're on the side of this law? Not at all. And it's not just the Basque Port Office, but there are two other important sections. On the one hand the effect of the change of climate. The harbors, our ports, will be damaged in the future, and must be adapted to the effect of climate change, and nothing in the law of law can be seen of it. And, on the other hand, relations between institutions. It is necessary to make decisions in ports, and to determine why these commissions should be made and how they should be completed. And in this case equality and decision are essential, and even in the law it is not clear. Besides partial recommendations, in the ports, we think we must reduce the charges of labour, and there is nothing to be said about them. The ruins and drains must be avoided, and in the harbours there are no fish to be sold, which are not now landed on them, and which must be repaired. I take the floor to Mr. Andueza when he says we're going to have a law and it's going to pass quickly. I believe that, Mr Andueza, when you speak, you raise the fish – never better said – and we take the floor because it gives me the feeling that we are going to see each other in this presentation much more than you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "The proposal proposed to stand against the Parlamentions of the Parlamentarian Groups, as to the co-operation signed between the Euskon, the Modal Foru and the University of Vitoria-Gasteria: To establish an intelligent electric bus in the town of Vitoria Castlez. "Motion, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, introduced together as members of the Podemos team, as to the carriages of intelligent electric electric bus." The representative of the American Basque Group has the word to oppose the cymbal. Carmen López de Ocáriz, your word is to defend this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u29	Good morning, thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Counsellor. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Group of the European People's Party we present this allegation concerning the partnership agreement between the General Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the City of Vitoria, in order to promote joint financing and the realization of various actions of its competence, necessary for the implementation of electrification in urban public transport, in order to equip the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz with an intelligent electric bus system on the current peripheral line 2 of the city. This agreement is preceded by an earlier agreement of June 2016 between the same administrations, where they undertake to advance sustainable mobility in Vitoria, and their commitment to influence the electrification of public transport and the definition of a reserved lane that optimizes travel times. Convention, June 2016, as I told you, for the drafting of projects, to adapt the offer of public transport in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz. In this context, the agreement before us today provides for the financing of the smart electric bus implementation project, which we call the EIB in Vitoria. Prior to the clauses of the convention, the legal capacity to conclude this partnership agreement by each of the administrations that sign this agreement is set out in a comprehensive manner. Reference is made to Organic Law 3 of 79, the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, competence in the field of railways, land, sea, river transport of the Basque Country, helipads, ports and cable, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 149 of the Constitution, points 1, points 20 and 21, which refer to land transport of general interest. Reference is also made to the Statute of Self-Government to article 10.32, which is competent for railways and trams in the Basque Country, which is also reflected in the Act on Historical Territories, which also includes the powers of the Provincial Council, in this case the Provincial Council of Álava. It also refers to Act No. 5/2003 of the Euskadi Transport Authority; Act No. 6/2004 of the railway public body; it also refers to the Historical Territories Act, article 10, where the common institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community have competence, legislation, regulatory development, high inspection, planning and coordination in the field of mechanical road transport... The Municipality of Vitoria as competent in the field of collective transport of passengers, in article 7.5 of the Law on Historical Territories, in the Law on the Basis of Local Regime, which provides that collective urban transport of Vitoria, as a compulsory minimum service for municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants. In the law of this Chamber of Local Institutions of Euskadi, which establishes the competences of the municipalities, among others: management, management, execution and urban discipline. Planning, planning, programming, management, discipline and promotion of the urban services of public transport of persons, whatever type of transport is used, within its municipal terms. Ladies and gentlemen, half of the text of this agreement is a glossary of laws, which in one way or another refer to the competences of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community in matters of transport and, as I have told you, to conclude that they are the local institutions, the City of Vitoria in this case, the sole competent in management, planning, programming, management, discipline, promotion of the urban public transport services of people, any type of transport that is used within its municipal terms. But the Government has pushed this project forward and we are flattered, because from that supposed exemplary work in reducing GHG emissions, it is transport that emits the most emissions, seems exemplary, as I said, that participates in this project. In addition, the convention also seeks references, given the cross-cutting nature of transport, which must be taken into account, the management and planning tools that affect us, and spoke of the Euskadi 2030 Sustainable Transport Master Plan, which aims to achieve a sustainable and integrated transport model as an instrument of social cohesion and socio-economic development of Euskadi. And through it, the Government is committed to formulating a common transport policy in Euskadi for the coming years. The transport sector, as I have told you, is one of the priorities when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, the 2050 climate change strategy adopted in this House also points to the road map to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and rise to climate change. And also the energy strategy of Euskadi 2030 drives the shift towards a new model of energy consumption, the progressive incorporation of renewable energy and electricity as the main objective. Reference is made in the statement of this convention to the objectives of sustainable development, which are set out in the 2030 Agenda. It is very important to internalise this commitment, where the emphasis is on sustainable cities, understanding sustainability from the environmental aspect, but also from the social and economic aspects. The City Council of Vitoria participates in this project, not because it is competent, it participates in this project because the City Council of Vitoria has no money to face this, and because it has also acquired commitments of sustainability, which I hope are for all of Euskadi and for all the cities of Euskadi, because the battle of sustainability will be won or lost in the cities, in the urban centers. And therefore, that commitment that the Government shows with the city of Vitoria must also show with the other cities of the Basque Country and the urban centers. That is why we think it is very important and we share those initiatives that are moving towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, in this case, the Basque Government, together with the Foral de Álava and the City of Vitoria, is driving sustainable urban transport through the smart electric bus. And it is in this financing agreement that you are committed to addressing it. But surprisingly, in this case, in this agreement, there is a significant part of the project missing, which is the basic element for the normal development of this project, which is the garages. Mr Becerra's question to the Counsellor last Friday in this House was raised, and one wonders how we might be talking about giving greater prominence to electric mobility by setting up an innovative experience to solve mobility, in this case of Vitoria, and giving us the same conditions as the 13 units that this new installation of the EIB, which are between 12 and 18 metres old, gives us the same where and under what conditions they are kept or located, where the installation of batteries will be located to allow these vehicles to be recharged. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the innovative strategic part of this project, which is as I say to you the 13 units of vehicles we buy and the installation of batteries, remains out of the financing, remains out of the project. So, we are no longer talking about a project or an innovative experience. We're talking... Of what? To buy some buses. Yeah, the project's staying with the bus buyer. The Basque Government is going to buy the buses. Yeah. And what did the counselor say here? That the rest is municipal jurisdiction. Hey, but what are we left with? Is it up to us or isn't it up to us? Are we committed to innovative experiences that reduce greenhouse gas emissions or not? Are we engaged or not? Or just a little engagement? How far does the engagement go? Until the purchase of the units? Interesting, very interesting. I want to say: Where is the exemplary administration in this case? Where is he? Exemplarity has been left out of the project. The project ends with the purchase of the units, so far they have arrived. But the counselor said something else here, that is, that in the previous agreement, when they decide to start the projects, it does not stand on the table where we are going to place the electric part of this, which is the innovative experience, ladies and gentlemen, plus the 13 units occupying an important space. So, what is this? Do I commit or don't I commit? "Oh, I don't have skills. Yes, I have competition because I want to commit, but just a little bit." Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this project requires that it be addressed as a whole. That is why we agree with the convention, but what we want is for it to be a complete convention. And we don't just say the People's Group. It was an agreement that was adopted at the City Hall of Vitoria on the 26th in plenary, where the City Hall was urged to address itself as a whole and that the dates should also be considered in the convention. I don't think this is going to be taken into account by the administration. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have presented this allegation because it was agreed by the Council of Vitoria in full and because we consider it essential and because, moreover, not only does the People's Group say it in this House or in the Council, nor the groups of Podemos or of Irabazi, or of someone else who has a transformation in these metres between the Council and Parliament. But ladies and gentlemen, the technicians in Tuvisa, who I think know something about this, have already made public statements saying that this project makes no sense if we do not address the location, the new garages. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we submit this allegation. We will also vote in favour of the motion tabled by Podemos. We fully share the presentation of the inquiry and the motion. That will therefore be our position before this convention and the motion. We will hear what the other groups say and in the turn of the reply we will focus more on our judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Becerlo has the word to defend his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u31	The truth is, in the short time I've been in politics, I could say that I'm not surprised at anything. But I do have to say that as a citizen I stay stoned seeing how in a case like that of the carmakers of Vitoria, in the face of a real need for a city, all political groups start to dance around the problem without anyone blowing their teeth at the issue, without anyone worrying about what the real needs of the city and of the citizenry are. Because here's a problem that we made manifest, our group, first in the city hall and then here, and it's that Vitoria needs some new bus coaches. This need was highlighted by Mayor Urtaran in October 2016 when he said: "The current garages are obsolete and the BRT has a number of very specific technical needs to which we must respond; they need more space and specific loading points." That's what the mayor said. Four months earlier, all groups, except the People's Party, on the Tuvisa Board of Directors, put to the vote show preference for the location of the society's infrastructure on the municipal nursery plot – I am referring to the garages – being approved with the votes in favour of all political groups, except for the abstention of the People's Party. Here's the minutes of the meeting. All the groups stated that these coaches were necessary and when that is made manifest in the City Hall through a motion of the smaller group of the City Hall, that of Irabazi Gasteiz, there is a majority of the plenary that is pronounced in favour that, in fact, the coaches are needed and that the smart electric bus project must include those coaches in the agreement to be a complete project, so that it does not get fucked. So far the needs. Indeed, we said that a new infrastructure was going to be put in place, that of the intelligent bus, but the new buses are not so smart as to park themselves, they need a garages, they need a garages, and the solution that was given from the plenary of the City Hall was that that project of garages was included in the project of the intelligent electric bus, because that is only the good solution, any other solution, that of using the current garages or any other that is sought are patches, they are patches and they are plugs. Good. Our group here in Parliament, once it heard of the majority decision of the plenary, called on the Councilwoman, not with the intention of putting her finger in the eye, but with the intention of finding a solution. Because in that convention which has now been denounced by the People's Party, the Basque Government is the majority with 65% of the participation. And we made it clear to the councilwoman, too, before making the inquiry, that we were willing not to move a motion as long as the Government gave a satisfactory response. It was not done, the Government did not provide the satisfactory response. We put the motion in, we put the motion in, a motion that was consistent with the one that had been passed in the City Hall, exactly, word for word, the same motion that had been passed in the City Hall. This coherence of our group, both in the City Council and in Parliament, is given by three pillars. One. As I said, the garages are necessary. Two. The garages have to be in the agreement. And three, we don't care what instrument the Government uses to get them into the convention, but they have to be, whether it's the government that makes the decision and the government hasn't made the decision. I also said, in my first question, that in this matter I saw many interests to run, many interests to do things in haste and evil, many interests to cut the tape and make openings before time, and very little interest to defend the needs of the city and to defend the needs of the citizens of Vitoria-Gasteiz. I hope I'm wrong, but I think, unfortunately, that's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u33	Thank you, ma'am, good day to all again. I believe that, far from criticising this issue, I believe that we must highlight the agreement signed between the institutions and, moreover, I believe that we have many arguments to be able to do so without having to focus solely and exclusively on the issue of garages, which I will then address. And I think it is very remarkable and very feasible to put this convention into practice, because I think it is an example of interinstitutional collaboration. That's for starters. And it's not always easy and it's not always feasible, and in this case I think it has been. I believe that this convention is going to involve the launch of a project that undoubtedly has components in favour of sustainable mobility, efficiency, efficiency, as I said, sustainability, which I think is very important. I believe it is a project that will substantially improve mobility in Vitoria-Gasteiz, which can be an exportable example and which, in fact, is already being launched in other Euskadi capitals, such as Donostia. I think it is an innovative experience in terms of betting on electric mobility. I believe that, moreover, it is a good bet from the Basque Government, from the Foral Diputation itself and, of course, as it could not otherwise be from the Vitoria-Gasteiz City Council itself, towards the city itself, as the capital of Euskadi and as the Green Capital, which I also believe is something that should be put in value. And I think it is a project that also favors other issues, such as the recovery of public spaces, such as the improvement in the communication of urban areas of Vitoria-Gasteiz that did not have good communication, as I said earlier, for sustainability, for the use of public transport in front of the private vehicle. Finally, I believe that this agreement has far more benefits than damages. Or I, at least, only see benefits. In that I think we should all agree, I think we all agree, because after some interventions I do not know if I am so clear. On those issues I can agree with you, Mrs López de Ocariz. That the City Council is competent in this matter, you have questioned it, and I have no doubt as long as we are talking about urban public transport. And the municipalities have full competence in this matter, they have full competence in this matter. And I believe that one fact that proves this is that a great many Euskadi municipalities are fully competent. Moreover, some even without being present in transport authorities and assuming that competence exclusively. Therefore, no one can doubt that they are competent in this matter. You've told us we don't care where those buses are kept. No, that's missing the truth, that's missing the truth. We've never said that we don't care. What's the deal? Of course there's commitment. How is there not going to be a commitment if this government is going to assume 65% of the 42 million that this project costs? How can you say that this government is not committed to this project if it is going to bear 65% of the total cost? Which is not minimal, which is 42 million. Does it seem to you that there is little commitment? Does it seem to you that there is little commitment? Well, I think it's a commitment more than enough. And no, we do not only worry about buying the units, no, because this agreement makes it clear. We are concerned about the development of the project, about the launch of an absolutely innovative project, which is not limited only to the implementation of that project, but also to the very fact of innovation, of developing a project that, as I said before, can be perfectly exportable, which also represents an economic benefit for the companies in the sector that are going to work on this project. Because it also involves urban changes, because it involves the recovery of new urban spaces, because it represents a substantial improvement in the mobility of waste pickers, because it involves a clear commitment to sustainability. Do you think there's little commitment? Does that seem to you to be limited solely to buying a few units? Well, I don't think that's the case. I'm sorry I told you. In any case, that you alone and exclusively summarise this whole agreement in the purchase of these units shows what its mercantilist character is, your little vision with regard to this project. But, of course, I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised, because observing what was the management of its mayor or its mayors when they ruled Vitoria-Gasteiz and its null bet on mobility in this city, as it leaves me very clear what its commitment to mobility is, not only in Vitoria-Gasteiz but at a general level. So, finally, let me question many of the questions or questions you have put here on the table. I doubt that it is technically necessary to build new garages, let me tell you this, because it is probably not necessary to build new garages, because perhaps unique and exclusively with matching existing ones could probably suffice, it could suffice. There will be technical reports that support it and they will say it, and I am convinced that they will say it, what do you want me to say to you! Anyway. I believe that in this sense they can be adapted, there will be no technical problems and that project will go ahead, very much in spite of you, who probably want that project not to go ahead. Well. Well, bad luck. Mr. Becerra said we all danced around the problem or we all danced around the problem but nobody solved it. I am truly glad that you have come to politics, because you are the pill of the solution. I mean, if it wasn't for you, if it wasn't for your coming into politics, I'm really telling you that I don't know what would have happened to us. I'm telling you, I don't know what would have happened to us. Perhaps not even the sun would have come out every morning, but believe me that this country has worked many years and very well without you being present. So, well, yes, Mrs. Arana, I can assure you, I don't know, how you laughed... But believe me, Mr Becerra, that you are late in this project, that this project has been maturing for many years, several legislatures, with different governments, with different oppositions as well, and will come forward, even though you were not. Maybe it's a miracle? Well, then, the miracle has occurred. You weren't there and this project was already being developed. That you need garages, they insist. I say that it is enough to adapt them and that I am surprised that you, who are always so in favour of optimizing resources, put all the eggs in the basket to develop a project such as the construction of the new garages, without even knowing whether there is a report or whether there is a possibility of adapting those garages in order to accommodate those units that are going to be bought or that have to be acquired. I would like you to be more cautious and at least give us the benefit of the doubt before you get into such an important project or at such an important cost, with what that can mean for the public administration, you who are so concerned about all the money that costs citizens the development of any project. You have spoken or said that the Government has not given a satisfactory answer to this question, and let me correct you, because the fact that the Government has not given the answer you wanted does not mean that the Government has not given an adequate answer. But it is often the custom of you to mix things with one another, and when the government does not give the answer you want to say that the government has not given the right answer. Well, that's to be seen, at least it's to be seen. In any case, I am surprised by one thing, and it is that, as the two proposing groups are so deeply involved in this project, that they are so concerned about this project and that so many developments are causing them, especially in the area of the construction of the garages, I am surprised that, having so much concern, neither of the two groups have been able to incorporate or propose an amendment to the budgets of this Government so that this could be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Troubleon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u35	Yes, good morning, everyone. Well, I think it's necessary to do so, because I've heard a lot of legal things about it, but at least I know that this project was introduced in October 2015, and I must admit that when it was public, Mrs. Org. In 2016, the investigation ended in September, the investigation of technical, financial, legal competency, and I must confess that at that time the Basque People were fully satisfied with the technical competency, not with financial resources. It was at that moment that project was introduced into the public cooperation and, if so, it would cost 102 million euros, considering that it would be included in 15 years' maintenance. On the other hand, we maintained that these terms were not acceptable, and that the public finances were absolutely indispensable, and that, in addition, the budget would also be included in the maintenance of 68 million dollars. And so we appeared, and it was also a pleasure to see how, almost a year ago, in February 2017, this model of finance was approved by the Government, and then asked for a recuperation, and so he did. So when we make the Basque People a review, we always like to make a proposition, because the public money is everybody's and we think we have to be responsible. Historiko bat egin behar da ere kotxetegiekin. Because here, Mr. Andueza, I cannot agree with you. There is already a report from March 2015, which talks about the need for new installations, in addition, above all, to contemplate the requirements that new vehicles need. I can also teach you the minutes of different Tuvisa tips. And I think the same here as the belt of transmission of information has not been the right one, because, of course, in the councils of 2016, of 14 April, of 19 May and of 23 June, the president herself of Tuvisa, who is lieutenant mayor, brings to the council the need of these future garages. In October 2016, as Mr Becerra has also collected, it is the mayor who publicly says that the construction of the garages will also be proposed, in addition to the phrase he has said. In November 2016 it was also the PNV that talked about new coaches, about the need for a capacity for 150 buses, of which 50 are reserved for the BRT. And it's also back in February last year, once we've agreed on the new funding, when it's again the mayor himself who says again that the project will also address the point of Tuvisa's new garages. This is the history, and that means it's hardly questionable. Well, we, Euskal Herria Bildu, are bringing here today a proposal that intends to unlock this point where the project is located and, of course, the inquiry is obviously towards the government, mainly towards the Basque Nationalist Party, because the truth is that we are here today because of the action of the mayor of the city, who has not been able to deal with the problem that he has generated. Because at the time Mrs. Tapia was saying that this should be resolved in the City Hall and we think she's right. He's right. But if in the City Hall the mayor opts for the ostrich policy and not to face the problems, because the injured will always be the citizenship and that is when this calls us to all opposition groups, because we cannot allow the great pagan to be the citizenship. And Euskal Herria Bildu is putting on the table a possibility of unlocking this situation. Because, of course, the Azkarbus is a good project, no, it's a very good project. But we all also know that even very good projects also have negative effects and this project also has them. And, among other things, it particularly affects busy and obsolete carmakers, as stated in the technical reports. This project also comes to load even more an already overloaded roundabout, which we will make that bottleneck still close further to the entrance of the city in the north. This project is also going to test an overloaded south round. And we have to deal with the different aspects. And that means improving the project, enriching it. Because problems do not disappear because they are denied, on the contrary, they become even bigger normally. That is why I want to say that now it is quite surprising that the need for coaches is denied, because the truth was missing in 2016 or the truth is missing now. And that's what's not understandable. Of course, Euskal Herria Bildu proposes that we do not promote ostrich politics, that we do not promote frivolity. You can fix things right now, and if you don't, we'll have to do it late and bad, and that's never desirable. Of course, we believe that responsibility must be demonstrated and that is what both the moment and the citizenry are asking for. These responsibilities also lead us to say no to the opposition paper presented by the People's Party. They have said, not in this rostrum, but publicly, that this writing would make the government incorporate the garages, but it is not. All this writing does is paralyze the project. And I will acknowledge here, as the counselor said at the time, that this is a project, of course, not done in a hurry, but rather that to point out the opposite. I'm not here to blame anything right now. I'm here to unlock it. Of course, Euskal Herria Bildu will not be in the paralysis of the project. We know that it is possible to affect everything that is needed, but without paralyzing it, although we also do not know if this is going to happen. We know that it is possible, not that it will happen, indeed. The question that we leave to the Government is whether it is going to fix everything else, or whether we are not going to try to push this project forward without delay and, of course, by addressing all the issues, because, I repeat, it is possible to do it now and well or we are going to do it late and badly. Mrs López de Ocariz, out of rigour, the battery system you say is not, is included, is on page 51 of the report, is. But, well, you're also right about something you may not have commented on, but the report itself also talks about the carmakers. He is right in that, it is that they appear in the project, they are seen both in the plane they present and, of course, in the page that refers to the description of the communications, where we talk about the control center of Tuvisa, which will be located in the nurseries, that is, in the new garages. That too, he's absolutely right, and we don't understand anyone why he fell. This is one of the issues I think it is important to say. Mr. Becerra, a small question. When you say that the motion you have brought is the same one that was approved in the City Hall, it is not true, it is not entirely true, and it seems that in what you have incorporated we agreed, but you have forgotten that in the approved text there is a fourth point, I say the third, well, the third was that the agreement is presented and moved, I am not referring to that. But the fourth one said – and it is also something that we put in Euskal Herria Bildu and we approved it between you and also the People's Party – which says: The Plenary of the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz urges the municipal government, prior to the tender of the Azkarbus project, to present the timetable for the new garages in which it will specify the date of presentation of the project, the date of the tender of the works and the constructive period. "Also, he urges that this schedule be accompanied, so that it avoids gaps that may have a negative impact on the implementation of this means of transport or that adversely affect the neighbours and neighbours of Vitoria-Gasteiz." And we put it in because we think it's important, because we think the garages are important, but we think it can be done in parallel and without delaying the project. That is what we constantly raise. We attach importance to this issue as we attach great importance to it, because carmakers are a question, after all, that citizens do not see, but they are issues that are going to directly affect gasteiztarras, as they are going to be Latin America and Rondas. These are issues that remain pending in the project, but there is a part that, indeed, has not been sufficiently worked out, and that is a responsibility that has not been undertaken by the municipal government, that must be done, that must be incorporated and that the project requires, needs, and, moreover, that must be done in this way, if at least we believe in the seriousness of the way in which the problems are carried out. But we also believe that paralyzing something to get something else does not contribute to the project either. It's a part that seemed important to us before, and it still seems important to us now. Mr Andueza, indeed, I think it is very important to push the project forward, but the ostrich policy of denying problems does not help either. So, we think that, I'm not telling you that I'm doing it, but right now there's a part that seems to be doing that and we don't think it helps. It's better to put the problems on the table, put the schedules on the table, don't hit, don't delay. There are different issues that you will have to address in one way or another, but denying reality has never made them disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u36	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Eubertarians, representative of the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u37	The head of the table, the members of the legislature, good morning, good day, again, again. Today we are here in a municipal debate because especially the People's Party is committed to, by not having the mayor's office in Gasteiz, looking for any administrative covetousness, any forum to bring their covets, their ogeriza, their pollution with the mayor of Gasteiz, Gorka Urtaran, to speak where it does not belong, and for once again try to block any development project in the city of Gasteiz. Let's go to the story. The exclusively electric bus proposal, is a proposal from the Basque Government, yes, to the City of Gasteiz in 2015 – that has already been said here. And after analyzing it, it was understood that it was an important project to the extent that it modified the current paradigms of public transport, to work on clean transport, with priority in its journey. Other models were seen in other cities and it was decided to move forward in its implementation. As far as I know, with the consent of all the groups of the City of Gasteiz, groups that really have a responsibility to analyse and discuss the need for this project. This project included collaboration with the Provincial Council of Álava and was implemented in two partnership agreements between the three institutions. The first, of a technical nature, was the one that allowed to cooperate basically through ETS to study solutions to problems that could be caused by the implementation of the new electric bus, as well as the elaboration of the concrete project. That agreement was sent to this Parliament in May 2016 and here it was implicitly approved, because it was Olympicly passed from it, and it has recently been completed, in December, after drawing up the brochures and the specific project, which have been transferred to the City Council, which is the administrative space for it to bid on the different phases that will allow this bus to start up. The second agreement speaks logically of financing. Once the project has been completed, it is appropriate to tender it, and for this it is necessary to have a budget, of Chinese, that the three related institutions – Government, Diputation and City Hall. And the government 65%, which Mr Andueza has already said. This is the brief history of the agreement and its course since the idea arose and until it is translated in a convenient way between administrations. All this I am pointing out has been approved and supported explicitly or implicitly by all the groups in this Parliament, because it was all settled with numbers in the budgets of the Foral Chamber of Álava and the Basque Government. I am not going to talk about the Parliament, but about the Government, because in this House the budget item of the Basque Government of 2018 was approved number 0351314272201001, called "Convention with the City of Vitoria. Electric bus", with a budget of 10,390,500 euros and a commitment credit for 2019 of 17.46 million euros. It was adopted with the explicit support of the People's Party and without any amendment by any group in the process of partial amendments. All this was approved on December 22, 2017. It hasn't even been two months. Both PP, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu amended from that Directorate of Transport Infrastructure a lot of concrete games: I don't know which parking lot of Leioa, than if the tram in Zabalgana, etc. But the departure for line 2 of the bypass electric bus in Gasteiz did not change it, neither those who explicitly or implicitly supported the global budget, nor those who rejected it. From what I conclude, it was a heading that 100% of this Parliament accepted. It seemed logical and reasonable to him. Well, it turns out that everything was going reasonably well, that everyone – each one with its nuances, that we each have to come out a little bit of our personality – agreed to move forward with this project, until once it took cruise speed and after seeing that Elkarrekin Podemos questioned the government, the People's Party appears, party that in the City Hall of Gasteiz behaves like a party unable to digest that is in opposition, unable to accept that someone other than them can finish a project as small as they are, and denounce the agreement taking advantage of a regulatory gap. Because if the agreement were signed exclusively with the final beneficiary of the project, they would not have been able to block it, because the rules of this House only allow denouncing agreements with outlaws. The agreement was signed by three, in order to see more clearly the inter-institutional collaboration, resulting in the People's Party having found in this position of transparency its possibility to make its trifle to ask to paralyse a project that the citizens of Gasteiz expect, which Euskadi hopes to begin to advance along the path of sustainable mobility, the development of new vehicles and new technologies from which the Basque industry will also benefit and which, in short, we all hope to advance as a country. But no, in his cantonment at the City Hall of Gasteiz and in the absence of a platform or plataformilla on which to base his opposition, this time they do so directly, blocking the administrative procedure that allows to finance an already elaborated project, with a previous agreement that they did not think to denounce because they agreed with him and with a budget not amending because they also agreed with him. They don't care to bet on the tram when you rule than to spoil it and try to block it when you don't command. They don't mind betting on the electric bus, implicitly approving the agreement for the drafting of a specific project and approving its budget which, later and when it is already going to start running, blocks it. The point is that you don't want Gorka Urtaran to do a project until you're in town hall. It is not a healthy or democratic political model, and all it seeks is to permanently transfer and strain Victorian society. It can happen, that without denouncing the convention one can support the denunciation that you submit, exclusively out of opportunism and adding support to the People's Party, in order to claim the blockade. Well, they'd be the Mariachi of the People's Party. It is true that the motion put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos is different, and that it differs from the denunciation of the agreement in its proposed attitude and from blocking the implementation of the EIB. We understand it in part, we have even tried to compromise, because we understand that something could be agreed, although I insist, is a purely municipal matter. From the moment that it is a project with a first agreement accepted by all, with a budget already approved by all and that never contemplated a garage, and that may not be necessary at this time, it would not seem normal to ask them from a parliament for a government to pay for a matter that it is not competent for some municipal groups to agree and only to try to damage the image of a mayor. One thing is to agree on a motion, and another thing is, as an alternative to not agreeing, to block the City Council's action. That's blackmail. I came here to do parliamentary politics, not to settle municipal conflicts, which I do elsewhere and at other times. And in this case, not even that. This is to block an agreement between the Government willing to finance a municipal bus project and a city council. We are assuming that such coaches are necessary, and we have information that they are not. If initially they were not planned, and no one said anything, if two months ago we all approved budgets that did not include such garages, and no one said anything, what comes now that we are committed to, without more, making them necessary? Another thing is that at the end of the process, it turns out that it would be good to modernize them or make new ones, which could happen. Then, the Government, do not hesitate, would re-analyse it with the City Council and proceed to add, if possible, an addition to the agreement to cooperate in its implementation, which can be in a thousand ways, that there are ways, from the elaboration of the project to the full funding, but always considering that it is a municipal matter, and that Euskadi has, that I know at least, 248 municipalities. The municipal debate transferred to Parliament gives rise to a strange batiburillo, where it deprives a sort of preparatory struggle for the next municipal, leaving aside projects of city, to, if necessary, block them and that the gasteiztarras have no benefit at the cost of the municipal groups enjoying their fights in the mud. Here, no one has forced anyone. Today, parliamentary groups are debating the municipal issue that should never have come out of that area and that, due to the PP's obsession with the legitimate mayor, Gorka Urtaran, has ended here for his twisted attempt to reblock a project of those to continue building city, appearing that if they are not the ones who do, they should never exist. As if Gasteiz were their heritage, a city that they alone must build. Finally, this debate, which, I insist, should never have left the scope of the Gasteiz City Council, I would like it to end here today. But knowing how PP behaves at City Hall, I don't have them all with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andueza, you don't hear what we're going to tell you. And then he's dedicated to making judgments of intentions without listening, because he was already thinking about what he was going to say. Don't listen! He doesn't know the reality. I understand that it is difficult to get to Eibar the reality of Vitoria, it is very difficult, but neither has he made any effort to know it, nor to study it. Therefore, Mr Andueza, value judgments, please, may be for a conversation, but not to justify a position that has been quite complicated. They're telling me about the budgets. Also Mr Tellería, who uses this rostrum as therapy, instead of going to the appropriate medical consultation, Mr Tellería. Budgets. The deadline for amendments is 29 November. Do you know when the Governing Council approved this agreement? At the end of December. We are not opposed to this agreement and to the participation of the Government, and to a budget line. We asked the government for the project, and they didn't send it. Look at the initiatives of this Member and this group, please look at them. Look at the history and the work we do. Unworked justification, not contrasted, because they have no arguments. This agreement, as I said, is from the end of December. She said the other day in the inquiry: "The municipal public transport is municipal competence and it is the City Council that is responsible for putting the transport into operation". Mr Andueza, I have said here that the only competent one is the City Hall. He didn't know anything, he didn't know anything about what I said, he doesn't care. I understand you're not interested in what I say, but don't tell lies. "We take care of the collaboration in the implementation," said the adviser. He is not competent but is responsible for the collaboration in the implementation so that, once completed, the City Council will take over. Your Honor, we're talking about a project that your strategic part is an unknown. If you look at the electrical part, but not its location, it's going to hang it from a cloud, it's going to put it in a building, that tomorrow you have to move it... That proviso, can we give that proviso any good? We do not, because we understand that the project as a whole needs to be addressed. And we were denied the information to know the project that was linked to that convention, we were denied the information in this House and look at the answers. Look at them. It had to be approved by the competent committee – neither did they say which committee – in order to be able to move it. That is the transparency with which we have worked. It has been asked in the City Hall and neither has transparency been given to this group, Mr Tellería, yes, to this group. To the... What did you say? Mariachis? That we approved his budgets, you mean? These mariachis that we approved his budgets? Look, I respect you and, second, I ask you to withdraw the word because, in any case, mariachi will be you. I told them it's a project they call strategic and the electric charge we don't know where it's going to be placed. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this is provisional. That the private initiative would not be allowed, because now will come electric charge placements requested by private companies, and we will see what conditions we put them. We will see under what conditions they will be able to install them, and we will draw up regulations for the private sector. The Administration recently has little copying, we have seen it on the south tram: I start, I do the bidding, I take a contest, I start the works and I start to modify it, I take this off, I put the other... Is that provisional admission to private initiative? No, no, What about us, the exemplifiers, what do we do? What gives us the desire, how it gives us the desire, we transmit the information that we think. But what do you want? From the Basque Government, the councillor said that there had never been any talk of the garages. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is irresponsible that you have never had this on the table, that the person who was writing this draft did not worry about it. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible. And then, for a note, Mr Mayor, on Friday – I conclude immediately, Madam President – on Friday, which rejects any financial aid, Mr Telleria, who says that then an addition to the agreement, which has been rejected by Mr Mayor, who does not want the money from the agreement to make the carmakers. And then to close the bow, comes the hug of Mrs. Larrion's bear, which when Mr. Urtaran hugs her, what he does is sink the projects of Vitoria, sink, do dips, I don't care about the south tram that this one. Two chapuzas, which may have been two well-designed projects with common sense and with the consensus of the citizenry. Two projects that are two cods, which have counted on Mr Urtaran and Mrs Larrion, and that is what we have right now. We'll see how it goes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u40	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u41	But, of course, a strategic project, temporary and driven by the Administration. This would not be condoned by private initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u43	Good morning, Mr. Telleria. When you say that the matter of the carmakers of Vitoria is a municipal matter, you know that nothing that affects the capital of Euskadi, unfortunately, is a municipal matter, nothing. And that's why they come here, come here that and come here many other things. Mrs López de Ocariz has already told you, but if the budgets were not amended it was because our group is in favour of the smart electric bus. What we did not know was the content of the convention. When you know the content of the convention, obviously, and you see that there are no carmakers, then, of course, you act accordingly from the City Hall. We didn't bring him to Parliament first, he took him to City Hall first. And I reiterate once again that our group is in favour of the project and that we are also opposed to paralysing it, Mrs Larrion, of course, and to avoiding the negative differences to which you refer. We would like it not to happen, and that is why we have been in favour of negotiating with the Government any formula that the Government would like to use to avoid these delays and to ensure that Victorian citizenship is left without the car. But who broke this deal? Mr. Urtaran. Mr. Urtaran is the one who broke this deal. Mr. Urtaran on Friday dynamited it by saying the most amazing thing I have heard in my life, that a city council that is indebted to the eyebrows, that has no money to build the garages, says that it does not need the money of the government, that it does not need the money of the government, that it does not want it. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And you have done no favours, Mrs Larion, yesterday, saying that, well, that an intermediate solution can be reached by paying less for the government. Of course, I don't think Gasteiz's citizenry has made any fun of it that, if you no longer have the money to pay what was yours, you say that you will still pay more and that you forgive some of the money to the government. It doesn't make any sense. I have to tell you that if you do not finally vote in favour of this amendment as a whole, you will not only have an incoherent vote with what you did vote in the City Hall, but you will achieve three things. The first, that the citizenship of Vitoria-Gasteiz is left without the new coaches you need; the second, that the day you want to build them will all be paid out of your pocket; and the third, that this intelligent electric bus, as you have said, is an interesting project, born lame from the beginning. That's what you're gonna get. And I'd like you to reconsider. But, as I say, you're not primarily responsible, nor am I going to do it. The main person responsible for this issue is Mr Urtaran and I would tell the Basque Nationalist Party that if, in view of next year's municipal elections, it does not have a better candidate, I suspect they do not have one, because there is also the possibility that the candidacy will be headed by a smart bus, which will do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u44	Mr. Becerra, thank you. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u45	Thank you, ma'am. If you want me to be honest with you, I do not know where to start, because it seemed to me that, above all, this final stage of the debate has been of very bad taste. And I will not be the one to take Mr Urtaran's face, which probably does not correspond to me, but it seems to me that it has been an absolute lack of respect on your part, Mr Becerra. And you that often bothers you so much that you touch your sides, if it bothers you so much, try not to do the same with others. Mrs López de Ocariz, you say that you take away from me the reality of Vitoria de Eibar. Look, first, I spend quite a lot of time in Vitoria, but I can assure you that I have many emissaries in Vitoria, among other things, because the eibarras there in the 70s we repopulated this city in considerable numbers, which I believe were 3,000 eibarras families who came at that time to Vitoria. So, well, I'm not gonna tell you that half of Vitoria is Eibar's, even if I could say so. He said I didn't hear him. I have a fairly important physical defect, and it is that I have quite large ears and that there are many times that allows me to have my hearing sense perhaps sharper than I wanted, but I can assure you that in your words I have seen that you wanted to make it clear or to exclude the City Council from liability when we were talking about an urban public transport in which, let me tell you, you are fully competent. And what happens is that many times we're used to mom administration or dad administration contributing maybe more than it should, that I'm not going to argue with her. But in any case, look, to know that the City Council has full competence in urban mobility I will tell you one thing. They did little in their time of government at the City Hall of Vitoria. Little, to say nothing, because you didn't move a quarter bus line when you ruled Vitoria, nor a quarter bus line!, because you didn't care at all. So now don't come to be the victim here when you didn't move a finger, you didn't move a finger and many of the projects you took forward when Mr. Maroto ruled came from the previous legislature, came from the previous legislature. If the inaction was the most repeated word of Mr Maroto's government, what will you come to me now to say about what the current government is doing, when they did not move a finger! Anyway, that you can't stand that other parties rule in the City Hall of Vitoria? I admit it. Look, before that, the best recipe: Omeprazole for not having stomach pains, and a lot of work, a lot of work, but real work, proactive work, positive work to carry out projects, not to hinder projects that others want to start. Finally, Mr Becerra said that they did not know the agreement, and I am surprised. You who know everything, who don't know that convention that was public, little less than I'm surprised. You say you bet on this project. I repeat to you and I repeat, they are betting on this project and yet it is time to approve the budgets in the different institutions and do not put a hard part in their amendments to support it. Well, in the face of ignorance, this time we're going to let it pass, but, what do you want me to say?, you've been left alone with the People's Party, you've been left alone with the People's Party, and you're somehow being complicit in the People's Party strategy, which is all you want to hinder this project. And look, even Mrs Larrion, that she is probably the future candidate of EH Bildu to the City Hall of Vitoria, who could have come here to make demagogy, for look, she has not done it and has been proactive. I thank you, I thank you for your commitment to this project and for your willingness to move forward. That the ideal would be to have some new garages? Of course I do. The ideal would always be to have the best of the best, but perhaps by adapting the current ones enough and enough, we will not put the cry in the sky because we bet to adapt some cars and try to solve it, that I do not think it is a patchwork, Mrs López de Ocariz, that it can probably be a feasible solution and that it is also a solution that does not cost the public administration so much money and therefore does not cost our citizens so much money. I haven't said at any time that there's no need for garages, at any time. I said that perhaps with adapting them simply and plainly it is possible, no more or less. But, finally, the truth is that everyone here knew that there was a problem, everyone was aware of that problem, everyone knew that the garages were necessary, everyone knew that it took more money to make it materializable, everyone knew it, because we are all smarter than hunger. But it turns out that the convention has been adopted, that the budgets have been adopted, and now it turns out that they put the problem on the table. For the next time I recommend one thing, let them be a little smarter and let us see the problems before we are able to see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Troubleon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u47	Yes, thank you. Well, Mr Andueza, indeed, we from Gasteiz are born where we want, in Eibar or where we need it, that is the question, yes, sir. Yeah, a little question. You can see things in different ways, yes, we did know about the garages. In fact, if you look at hemerotecas, you can see statements since 2016. But I also understand, at least I see it this way, that you can do it. This convention is born of a framework convention, which in turn gives rise to different conventions, and this is one that deals with a specific issue, which remains to accommodate aspects that, in fact, will be lacking, but I do not think, or at least I do not understand it so, that because it has been closed that means that no more conventions or more additions can be made. But, Mrs López de Ocariz, I agree with you on certain things, yes. I also doubt it will be done, I doubt it will be done. You recognized me that Euskal Herria Bildu, in fact, is leading the legislature in favour of the main measures that will be taken in mobility in the city. It is true, we in that convention that we agreed all the parties in December 2015, because that was unanimously, we also continued to support the convention, we defended the tram to the south, as it came in the Mobility Plan, yes. We have defended this approach to the periphery, yes. And next thing we know, we're studying East-West alternatives. Yeah, yeah, we do that. But I also agree with you that this would not be admitted in the private company, that of the lack of definition of projects, there is also right, you are right. Of course, if an engineer makes this proposal, I tell him that the next day he's not in the job, it's true. There is a lack of rigour in the approach of certain aspects of the project, that is so, and that is what is being claimed here. It is being claimed, and today I believe that here, in this case, it is a sincere and honest claim that things can be done here, now and well, because they are going to have to end up doing it, and we are going to make them late and bad. Yes, indeed, I believe that in that analysis we agree, indeed. Mr Becerra, you said that if we do not vote in favour of the proposal today, I do not know if I have understood you correctly, from the People's Party? Or I don't know if you were telling me about yours, I don't know, here correct me, we're gonna get the garages not included. Mr. Becerra, I don't know which one you're referring to, but neither one of you knows perfectly well that the garages are being guaranteed, you know. I mean, I think we all share the need for coaches, but you know that the cessation of the convention does not mean that they are included and that your motion does not imply that they are included either. But anyway, he was telling me to reconsider the vote. If I don't have to reconsider!, we're going to support the garages but we're not going to paralyze the project, if we're clear! But, anyway, also for some small but very brief comment, on the performance of Euskal Herria Bildu, for example, when we renegotiated public-private financing to the public: net savings were obtained for the city of 7 million euros. In other words, there are certain aspects that have been achieved in order to heal. The city says you're absolutely in debt. Well, he's got a budget of 16 million euros more. We believe that garages are important, but for us the priority will be employment and other issues to which we have given great importance and which we will continue to give. There are possibilities, because the annual borrowing capacity is 10 million, but it is annual and the project is not going to be one year. But, indeed, we believe that we have to co-finance, if that is what we are defending. Mr. Telleria, you're not right. You recriminate the People's Party that wants Gorka Urtaran not to do a project while he's in town hall. That you do not accept now the garages will achieve that, because what is going to be done so far is precisely what you have brought us. I mean – now I'm putting myself as a City Hall – what was designed from the Basque government department is what is going to be done. And the contribution that should be made from the City Hall, which would actually be those coaches, Latin America, the South Round, is to what you are actually going to give the door right now, to what it is to be done, you are giving the door that precisely the mayor can present as his own something. And that's a bit of a disgrace, because on that question that is merely municipal, you say, you're contradicting the mayor. Because the mayor, and I am not taking the newspaper anymore, I am taking the press note, which you can consult, of October 14, 2016, with which it is official, and in textual words, said Mr Urtaran: "In this sense, the mayor will propose to include the construction of the new garages in the project, the current ones are obsolete – which you say now there is a report that says no – and the BRT has a number of very concrete technical needs to which we must respond." Which you say now you don't. You're contradicting Mr. Urtaran. "They need more space and specific loading points." And keep going. It is you who are in the background doing what was accusing the People's Party; you, in the end, are telling Mr. Urtaran that he was not right then, that he is wrong, it is a little what you are saying right now, and that is what we do not understand. Because they say that you have a report now that says that the garages are not necessary. Well, look, Euskal Herria Bildu has the vice president of Tuvisa and we don't know that report, we don't know it. With this, when you say that this is a municipal debate, it will be a report that the Basque Nationalist Party knows in all institutions, because of course in the municipality we do not have it. And I've been talking to him since Tuvisa's vice president, I wasn't talking to him about that... Which, I think there's a lot more behind here and I'll tell you again, you can fix things right and now, or we'll end up doing bad and late. Consider it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u48	Thank you, ma'am. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u49	Good morning, everyone. First I'll make it clear, Mrs. López de Ocariz. I didn't call you mariachi. In any case, it wouldn't be that... I don't know, like asking for rejection. I said I'd be in the PP, and if anyone supports them, they'd be their mariachis, just everyone else except the PP. Now, I would ask you to withdraw, if you have been offended, when you withdraw what you have said that I need therapy. Okay? Here's where we're going to clear things up. You in the background continue to hold a thesis: that you have to make a garage. I don't know whether to do it or not. I don't have any reports, I have information. And I said what the mayor said last week publicly. In any case, it will have to be done or not, but all they say is that the City Council has no money. Hey, that's not a reason to do it or not to do it. That's what the City Hall will have to do. Why doesn't he have money? Isn't it because the previous City Hall spent everything? Is it not because the People's Party promoted a very urgent reform of the Constitution to minimize the indebtedness of public administrations? Why doesn't he have money? And since he doesn't have any money, let him pay another one. Why? What are the reasons? I just don't get it, I don't finish getting it. You all agree on the bottom. The agreement is that the entire opposition of the City Council agrees and says, "Let's ask for something that the mayor hasn't asked, to make the mayor look ridiculous." That is the model, they are doing municipal politics in this Parliament. They are working on a concrete project that will come out yes or yes, there is a larger or smaller garage. Look, I'm also going to tell you: we at Gasteiz are not only born where we want to be, but we are councillors where we want to be. And in that sense, don't pretend to be the mayor instead of the mayor. It is the Government team that decides what needs to be done and how to be done. Today there are parliamentarians here who are also councillors, who in this forum act as building blocks, and there are others who act not as municipal spokespersons, but as spokespersons for their respective councillors. Be parliamentarians in Parliament, please, because in politics reasoning will always work, because obsession is against wisdom. The obsessive rush to achieve a goal transforms the paused and reasoned reasoning into mocking haste of arguments. And don't ask me to withdraw these words, Mrs López de Ocariz, because they're not offensive at all. Obsessiveness leads him to move from reflection to thoughtlessness, from measure to foolishness. And today, with this case, we have been able to observe how the PP of Gasteiz, the People's Party in Vitoria, in its obsession with the mayor's office, has crossed the borders of reason, logic, in order to immerse itself in the laudable waters of the unthinkable and the senseless. Jack London already said: "To be able to forget is the basis of sanity, to remember constantly leads to obsession and this to madness." It is time for you to forget June 2015, not yet think in May 2019 and rebuild on renewed ideas. Whatever it takes to get there, it'll get there. Do not alter the continuous space-time, do not accelerate or transmute spaces or times. Space, the things of the City Hall in the City Hall; time, the electoral debate in May 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the argument is over, we're going to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 20; the opponents, 55; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u51	So, we didn't accept the opposite proposal. Next, we vote for the original text of Mr. Becerra Carollo's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u52	So the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspilla Group, was to be given the effective measures of aid to the Basque families. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal, Mrs Garrido, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning chief, congressmen. Well, today the Poptular party has a motive for discussing this whole meeting, about pretty families. This motion comes from an interpelation, and in that intermediary we asked the government, after testing once the Family and Childhood treaty, which was the goal of the Eucomators. We believe that we must take effective measures, encourage them, and in budgets we must adopt specific commitments to encourage family policy. This motion is the result of an inquiry two weeks ago in this House. This is not the first time we've talked about family policies. This group has already tabled two appeals – three with this one – and three motions. And the aim of this motion is to re-establish the duties of the Basque Government, in the sense that, once the Strategic Plan for Support for the Family and Children has been introduced, effective measures to support families are taken and sufficient budgetary commitments are also made to implement these measures. In particular, and once we have the Pact or the Strategy for the Family and Children, we do request the Basque Government to forward once and for all the Fourth Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support, which is where these concrete measures, these budgetary commitments are to materialize, and we also ask for a timetable with a plan of action for the development of those measures as set out in the Plan. On the other hand, and in view of the delays and non-compliance of this Government in relation to family policies – which we have already shown on numerous occasions – we ask the Basque Government to adopt immediately and without delay the corresponding decree which will enable the commitment also made by this Government to increase aid for the second child from two to three years in an annuality. We think it's time to take some efficient measurements, and that's why we're asking the Basque Mitch to make and send us an Interinctual Plan of Familia in four months' time. When this law began, this was the case. We have accused several times that the absence and commitments of this government have not been fulfilled, but the commitments to the policy of the family have not been fulfilled. When we started this legislature we found that we did not have the IV Inter-institutional Family Support Plan. All of you will remember that the third ended in 2015. We didn't have the evaluation of the Third Family Plan. Following the impetus of an initiative of the People's Party in relation to family policies, the Government brought the evaluation of this third plan, specifically on 11 May 2017. We have also seen in this evaluation and after reviewing the forecasts and measures contained in the III Family Plan, that many of them – not to say a vast majority – in relation to family policies have not been implemented. We also did not have a family strategy at first, and that is what Lehendakari himself, at the 2015 General Policy plenary, told us that this family strategy would soon be referred to. We're talking about 2015. The legislature ended and we did not have that family strategy, which also conditioned the referral of the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Family Support, as I say, already with concrete measures in different areas to support Basque families. But what's more, it is that the lehendakari himself, in the spring of 2016, in the middle of the pre-election campaign, announces to us a strategy of family to bowl and dish, with a multiannual budget commitment of 200 million euros. Obviously, the family strategy we have to say has finally arrived. The pact between the Basque Government, the deputies and Eudel was approved on 18 January. And it has arrived late, it has arrived with two years of delay regarding the commitments made also by the lehendakari himself, both in the reference and mention made to the general policy plenary of 2015, and the commitments that Mr lehendakari as government of the people acquired in the pre-campaign of the elections of 2016, in May 2016. We don't have the decree either. The Government programme will increase, which was already foreseen in the Third Family Plan. Therefore, it arrives quite late. In addition, in the 3rd Family Plan itself the commitment was to materialize it in 2014, to increase that annuality, the aid from two to three years in the second children. Por lo tant, lo hemos querido poner de manifiesto vez, a traves de la interpelición y de la mución. We tried to expose this again. We do not understand the lack of interest which this government has in protecting the family, and that it does not obey the commitments of the government itself. We have not understood the apathy of that Government, the inaction of that Government in relation to family policies, which has led it to fail to fulfil its own commitments. We have already made a commitment in the past budget year to increase that annuality for the second child, as I say, and it has not yet been possible to materialise, because we do not have the corresponding decree approved. We have therefore wished to emphasize once again with these initiatives the lack of ambition, leadership and commitment of this Government. And we understand that family policies must be an absolute priority. The Councilwoman herself, in response to the inquiry, told us that effective measures and sufficient budgetary commitments are being taken to advance policies to support families. For we want these statements, once and for all, not to be merely uttered, but to be materialized once and for all in proposals, concrete initiatives, which give impetus to family policies and which also correct the structural problems we have in the field of birth and in the demographic sphere. That's why we finally made an arrangement. I'd like to thank you for the socialist Party and the Eucalist Party's attitude, because they finally made it possible to sign a deal about it. Seeing the amendments tabled to the initial initiative of the People's Party, there was almost complete agreement with the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. It was therefore understandable that we could reach an agreement. We have also tried to reach an agreement with the other amending group, which was Podemos, but it did give us an insurmountable condition, which we also believe was in excess of the debate itself of this particular initiative. I shall therefore read the agreement reached, the compromise amendment reached between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which I would obviously also like to thank for the effort of power, this time, after two debates previously held in this House on family policies, to have reached an agreement. But, as I said, it was not difficult, because the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party reproduced in the first paragraph in full the first paragraph of the initial proposal of the People's Party and the second paragraph was also almost similar. In this respect, the amendment and agreement reached are as follows: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Employment, Social Affairs, Social Services and Youth to draw up and forward to this House within four months the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Family Support, with concrete measures to be developed, a timetable for implementation, as well as the planned economic appropriation. "On the other hand, we urge – that this was the request that we also took up in our initiative – to implement in an imminent way the commitment to increase by 50% the aid to families with children, and to extend progressively this aid from two to three years, and also to improve, within the framework of this IV Family Plan, the aid to families, whether by birth or by conciliation, and also to stress co-responsibility." In other words, a compendium of measures to improve and, above all, to arbitrate measures absolutely necessary to give impetus to family policies in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and also to remedy, correct deficiencies that we are detecting. We will soon also have a full monograph on demographics and family policies, but we believe that this agreement is a good starting point for dealing with this debate from, of course, a much broader perspective than what this initiative contains. But show the satisfaction and gratitude also to the Basque Nationalist Party and Socialist Party groups, because in the end we have reached this agreement. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u54	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u55	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, chief of the board, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Together, Podemos confirms the commitment to the rights of children and teenagers, our groups witness the acts registered in the General Assembly and in the parliament. We want to place the rights of children and teenagers and the welfare in the center of the government. The rights and well-being of the adults who are guarded and protected must therefore be placed in the centre. A few days ago, a specialist in the matter recalled a saying, which more or less said that there is no rich mother or father with a poor son or daughter. So, just like we said in November, we appreciate the roles of families that are most likely to aid us. Yes, it is necessary to expand and to deep down the discussion. We reaffirm and repeat this. Now, we do it with the same nuances that my colleague Jon Hernández presented on March 9 and with what I myself showed in November last year, because although they want to present in this initiative some novelty or change, I fear we are in a déjà vu. In our view, nothing or almost nothing is changed. We need a deep debate and with the horizon of the monographic debate that we are going to have in March, we hope to be able to do so. Mrs Garrido's inquiry, in March, September, her October motion, the December question, today's motion... It will seem that the Group of the European People's Party is doing well to talk about families and economic aid, because they are passing through the subject superficially, wanting to make a flag of it, without going into the depths, which we understand is where we really need to look. And there's the basis of the disagreement. In the middle of all this, in January, and with a very similar line of discourse and proposal, like the amendments tabled to the PP's initiatives, the Government presented a pact, which also speaks of families and which only curiously, to a certain extent, is economic aid. Today, as at the time, we reaffirm loud and clear our support for aid, for benefits, for all measures that will, of course, improve the situation of those families that have to carry out daughters and children, juggling with employment, with the unpayable help of grandmothers and grandparents, with rent, with an endless mortgage. Let's go ahead, debate, and propose, of course we do. But please, with a little seriousness. Stop presenting initiatives and pacts staged without women, which try to make us believe that with an economic aid of 400 euros per year for the second child they will solve the life of the family, they will protect children and adolescents, or they will promote birth, reconciliation, co-responsibility or equality between women and men. Because that's not enough, but, besides, it's not the solution either. Today's initiative, as we said in March and November, is partial, incomplete, insufficient and inconsistent, with a party that does not address the causes, and that when and where it can cut rights that also affect the families it apparently defends itself. So there's no agreement. Well, there's agreement between you, but we're not gonna support it. From Elkarrekin We can go out today to defend our amendment as a whole. We once again defend the need for comprehensive and referenced public services. We advocate that the pact, the strategy and the plan, in all, have sufficient resources. We argue that economic aid should be covered in its entirety, also reversing the unjust 7 % cut that has been applied since 2012, and that, say what they say, it also affects families. We call for the measures proposed by the Government or the People's Party to be complemented by other policies that ensure the rights and protection of children, adolescents, adults who care for and protect them, all families, from all types, so that people who integrate them can develop full lives, because policies for families to live more and better have to go beyond simply financial aid or declarations of intent. Let us talk about the difficulties for the emancipation of young women and women, let us talk about grandmothers and grandparents who are essential to maintaining the impossible balance between family and employment, let us talk about single women with unstable and precarious jobs, of mileurists with daughters and dependent children, let us also talk about how we protect girls and children living in families whose adults are unemployed and do not arrive and want, but can not give their daughters and children all they would like, and can not break the intergenerational transmission of poverty either. Let's talk about all kinds of families, each and every one of the people who make them, because for us that is talking about families, because talking about social investment is talking about families, talking about childhood is talking about families, taking this seriously. For us, at least, it is a matter of putting the rights, protection and well-being of all, girls and boys, adolescents, young people and the elderly at the centre of our policies. It is a matter of putting the overall situation of families at the heart of the debate, understanding that with the help of EUR 400, no change is made, no change is made to the situation and no one's life permanently and stable, which is what is needed. Talking about families for Elkarrekin We can also and, above all, talk about people, not just from a utilitarian or finalist view. Investing in children and families is not only talking exclusively about the promotion of birth, because of the consequences for the market that have and will have, more and more, the low birth data. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must look at the causes and put structural and non-partial solutions, and that is why today we are not going to support this amendment, which is partial. You have to think about why having daughters and children today in Euskadi makes you poor, makes your quality of life go down. Solutions must be put in place to ensure that future projects of citizenship, which are not possible and which are seen as a dark and insecure horizon. For many, today, the future is like Galeano's utopia, which moves away at every step. We have to put solutions to that. Forming a family project is neither simple nor always possible, and that is what we must attend to and what we must seek and discuss, on which we must understand the ways, on which we must reflect, and not propose patches or partial solutions like those of the PP. But neither do we, of course, throw away strategies of investment in the family that only seek to increase birth and not improve people's lives, by the way, without us, with women, a pact of men to decide on a future that without us it is not possible, a pact that is said to invest in the family and in children but that only looks at the needs of the free market. I'm really serious, I'm ashamed of myself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u57	Thank you, President. Today we are debating on this item on the agenda on the adoption of effective measures to support families in Euskadi. However, this initiative is very similar to a motion tabled by the People's Party at the plenary session on 9 March last year, but, above all, almost the same as that of the plenary session on 2 November, also last year. However, my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, believe that this initiative, while reiterating once again, repeats in large part the last one presented, because in the second point, practically that point was already reflected in the amendment to the whole of the 9th plenary, the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group that was adopted in the 9th plenary, with the abstention of the People's Party and the votes against the EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos group. In addition, this initiative was presented after a monograph on families had been requested, which already has a date for its implementation, which is 21 March. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss in more depth the measures to be taken in support of families in our autonomous community in a much broader manner within that plenary. But all this time we've been moving forward ever since. In this last initiative all the groups talked about the importance of having the Basque Family and Children's Strategy in the last quarter of last year, and we have it in this period. The adoption of the final document was delayed because it was considered that the Strategy would be desirable to be implemented with the greatest possible consensus, because the results of the strategies are conceived over the years, and this requires a comprehensive strategy that does not change every short time, that is not short-term but that is maintained and sustained so that the results are the desired in the long term, and that allows for better birth rates and that this strategy should involve employers, trade unions and other organizations, including the third sector. And that strategy should go hand in hand with a cultural and social change, and that has been done, and that is precisely what extended the process a little further in time. But what is desirable is that precisely that Strategy, as I have said, should come out with a broad consensus so that it remains much longer-term. Following the elaboration of the Basque Family and Children's Strategy, the Basque Pact for Families and Children, signed on 18 January 2018, has been signed with the unanimous support of the three outlaws, from Eudel and also from the Basque Family Council, and this has been the second step in development. And this whole process will culminate within this four-month period of 2018 with the elaboration and implementation of the 4th Plan of Support for Families and Children, where it will materialize what already contained in the Strategy of Support for Families and Children, and also within the recently signed pact, in concrete measures to be implemented with a schedule of implementation. But this commitment had already been collected prior to the presentation of the People's Party initiative, because it is already collected and embodied within the Basque Pact itself for Families and Children, and the Employment and Social Policy Councillor herself had already expressed it in this regard in a few recent days, and also in the monographic plenary on 2 February. That is to say, we will soon have that plan, and we will also have the opportunity to discuss it in greater depth in the forthcoming monographic plenary session on 21 March. What is a reality is that Euskadi is the only autonomous community that already goes through the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, while there are communities that have not yet realized any. Moreover, it is the autonomous community that most economic items allocate to social aid, and we are the only autonomous community in the State that considers such aid to families as a subjective and universal right, having maintained and increased even during the period of the economic crisis and will continue to increase further, as reflected in the transactional amendment that is to be adopted today, and which has also been approved and committed on 9 March last year. As I say, there have been policies in this direction in recent years, but our parliamentary group agrees that in order for the impact on family support policies to be effective in the long term, strategies must be set out with the utmost consensus, so that they will continue in time and that trends can be corrected over the years. This is the objective that is also reflected in the Basque Family and Child Strategy, and is also reflected in the recently signed Pact. This will soon be reflected in the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children. We cannot only make policies that have been shown not to work on their own, that are short-term, but we must move towards a European model. The Basque Socialist Group also agrees with this approach. Today, in this initiative, we are once again talking about assistanceist approaches and we agree with the vast majority of the groups, because this was demonstrated by almost all the parliamentary groups in the debate of last November's plenary, a very recent debate, which we had to go beyond, because obviously only with assistance measures can this problem be solved. Let us hope to find the People's Party with broader perspectives, also within the family monograph that we are about to have on 21 March. We place our goal on universality, and that subjective right for all will come from the construction of this fourth pillar of the welfare state, from an integral system of social protection. If we do, the debate will no longer be just about subsidies. So what we are going to do today is support the compromise amendment signed by the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's Group, because it is almost the same as the amendment to the whole of the initiative that we had tabled to this initiative by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialists. It is already committed to the forthcoming implementation of the IV Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support. It also recommits the commitment to a 50% increase in aid to families, sons and daughters, and the only new feature is the possibility of improving such aid to sons and daughters under the Fourth Plan. Well, you take one more step and it's always positive. I am not going to go further into the debate on this subject because, logically, as I said, we will have the opportunity to enter into that debate much more deeply, which is what we all have within the monographic plenary on 21 March next. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u58	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u59	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. It is time, in fact, to change the course of affairs, to let them repeat and treat the same motion with the family police. It's time for a wider view to put long lights on. It's time for us to study here, among other things, but I'd say that we're going to project our country for the next 10-15 years, and not for the short dribling filigrants to show themselves. This town, Euskika, deserves something else. For he deserves something else from the Euskacia, in the presence of his grave and challenging affair with the demo, a state which ought to be a firmer wager for money, and which, for its purpose, will increase and spread positive politics. The help of Demographs and families is a popular challenge, a preference to this government, as the President himself has expressed in the reply given to the 2nd of February. Because family politics don't make money to satisfy the hypocrisy of the party who wants to show that she's leading the family police. One plan that will have to increase the functions and budgets in the actions of the plan, the help of the personal life of birth, family, and labor, the policy for positive parenthood, the management of the family, the co-operation, the recommendation of the co-operities for the introduction of the measures of the co-operation to their structures, the supreme interest of the minor, or the survival of the Child Schools of the Parthians, requires a plan which will protect them from the Euska. The plan that will be considered a target for expanding active and positive policies for the target. People's property, even in this, with commitments to bring us closer to Europe's erection, a family that will be key to social and economic development, a nation's social and beautiful language and equality. These commitments will lead us to a significant progress in the investment of childhood, to the production of conditions in which equality and social instability can be enabled, to guide the transition to job, to the maturity of youth, to the access of women, payable, and quality employment, to which we now know them. Those challenges are right in front of us. It's no small challenge, and that's what we all need. The question here is not who is leading beautiful families according to possible and some political wants. We need a wider view, put long lights on. This must not be the compact and plan of a government, but it must be the treaty and plan of a people. For this purpose let us consider the danger that often surrounds us, that there are two easy ways to bring us to ruin: it is impossible to demand and to postpone what is inevitable. For my own part, what we need in this matter is a compact, a vast and lasting compact, which in us, thought of our children, is "neliberal" and "progreal" and the like. And we have decided to sign a medium today on the road, about the initiative the Populous Party introduced. To end the dynamics we've brought with us in these past times, we've decided to sign the agreement to close the cycle. That the plan will be here in four months, and that it is not very difficult for families to be able to increase their support in the IV plan. It's not a lot of homework, it's complicated. He was going to make fun of me, and he was going to do it, and he'd do it without this or this initiative. We're on the porch of a new era. This arrangement closes a cycle, and by agreement lets open another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. "And it shall be [that] the leader of the children of Israel shall not stand, but the deputy of the children of Israel, [that] the daughter of Korah [is] your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u61	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, chief physician, good day. Yeah, you're right. It's a discussion that's been repeating for the past few months. It is not the first time that a motion is presented to us after an interpetion in very peers terms, and that we are found in a discussion proposed in the same terms, is it not? For it is true that Mrs Garrido made an interpenetration of the treaty to the chief physician, but then the Moment came into eternal terms. And of course, we've shown before now what the position is about our theme. He understands these family policies which will cause people and their well-being in the middle of the world to produce worthy lives, and which will be productive of vital policies. And I'd say that in the previous discussions, it's pretty clear what our position is. We made it clear that the want of the model of the fairs of our time and that we made it clear that it was absolutely necessary for a new strategy to draw us out of the eternal paradigms, and that we even made it clear that the discussion was necessary and that the current was in some way to agree with each other. And for this purpose we proposed to look at Europe and, more closely, to look at the Navarro. What happens is that such controversies as this, in our opinion, do not help in the example they have hitherto had by the pretty members of the Renaissance. And that's why we haven't made any corrections because this isn't the point of arguing our frame or our moment. And it surprises us, it's true, that the time of the teams that support the government. Maybe it's because the cycle's closing, but it really surprised us. Mrs Garrido wants to make the family police flag herself, which is legitimate, but we don't share the view of Poptular around the subject. especially because it is rooted in the sight of the pretty ones that have hitherto been set on motion, and partly because it puts all its force into measures which do not affect it, and partly because it is the planning of a very particular family modeling. And it is legitimate, as I have said, to wish for the initiative of the family police to be yours, but your discourse has only contradictions and patches. Because if you want initiatives that support families, with the withdrawal of labour reform, for example, it would have far more effect than any other measure that is going to be proposed at this time. And there are many other contradictions, but even Mrs. Guanche has mentioned them, and that is why we, our party, had planned to vote against your proposal today, and you would have guessed that we intend to vote against the middle course. That doesn't mean Mrs Garrido has any reason for some things she says, and it's true that this government is late, Mrs Garrido's right about that. And it is also true, commitments have been the present compromises that remain in words. And in that case, you have to be right about Mrs Garrido. As for the amendments of the groups supported by the government, it must be said that our party spoke contraryly of it. And, moreover, the distant one told us that the time had come to change the tertification, but the change of tertification has not yet been announced in this amendment. You've presented the usual in terms of eternity. And that's why we're gonna stick to voting the middle and the other half. And we'll vote against it, Mr. Faraway, because, as you said here, President Urkullu introduced us to a contract on January 18th to increase our birth rate. Mrs. Sánchez has also mentioned that popular destiny which the head of the Landfields defined as a landmark to protect the families. And, it seems, it's a local convention that comes to reorganize and reorganize family policies. But we believe that you have lost the choice of this treaty 4. He could have had a family plan for a reflection on the desktop. And again, in the terms proposed by the Poppular party, you have settled yourselves in the same terms, and there is no other alternative than that of yours, for with you there was the possibility of Podemos, which is much nearer to the treaty than that which is proposed by the Poptular party. But you, you've made your choice, and you've decided to go back to the Popular Party. And it's time, I think, to pass from word to action, and it's time to transfer from symbolic policies to transformations, and you said so too, Mr. Faraway, and Mrs. Sánchez mentioned it too. And in this respect even the smallest steps are of importance, so that today the amendment was important. Baina, jakina, nik uste dut, Diario Vascok bear on which deskribatu zuela zer den orina itunarekin daukagun szenarioa. Eta Diario Vascok esaten zuen: "That at the moment they are nothing but words. Euskadi redesigns his family policy and proposes a more universal and comprehensive model of aid." Eta jarraitzen du: "The document lays the theoretical foundations for a long way to go, which must be translated into measures", those measures mentioned by Mrs Sánchez. For if this compact, which the Government answers to this engagement, be not the most exact in particular enterprises, if it be not fulfilled, if they do not mark new places, and if there is not sufficient means to carry them forward, those policies will be the next of nothing. And you had a choice in today's initiative, in the amendments of today, to make a different plan, to show where this plan will go, to show what resources it may have to advance. But you didn't use a chance like that. It may be to close the cycle, but you've left this opportunity behind you, and you've settled in a scene on the other side of the treaty, which I'm surprised at. And we want to know, we want to know what this government really intends, what it's going to do, how it will work. How can the thing be proposed? This pact that will make us look into Europe, what resources will it have? How many hundreds of millions will the government detract for that? Where does he get them? Atzo eztabaidatu eta berettsi zenuten eredu fiskaletik aterako dira familia-politika hauek behar dituzten baliabideak, hirukoiztu egin behar diren baliabide horiek? No, I'm fine. I'm fine. Eta Diario Vascoko artikuluak berak aipatzen zuen "which is already working on a decree, which will not be as ambitious as the pact". That is what the Basque Journal said, because neither in the budgets is it detected that there will be large increases. But this has not been said to the people, and in this case what you have done is a great many words and many propagandas. The treaty is still nothing else, it is still propaganda, and every day, on the way here, we hear the short advertisements about the family plan. And here, the other day, a member of the Jestle Party of the Euko, told us, "que eso de payr la propaganda a pachas, nada, que cada cual se pay la suya?" But apparently, "la del Gobierno la tenemos que retre todos," which is not allowed, this must be a serious engagement. And we may return to those which have been foretold in the event of the treaty, and we may return to those which have been proposed to you today in your repentance, both of you and others. For some and others agree that these scholarships are not decisions, and that they don't want such efficiency, but you focus on it again... It is true that in discourses there are other things mentioned, but when it was announced, when the treaty was announced... And again and again the president has said, "que el incremento a las ayudas a la family es un compromiso de país." "El incremento de las ayudas en sí mism se ha demonstrateddo no es efectivo, simplemente es efectivo." Entonces, el poterra ventez el foco... Es el momento de poner el foco en otro type de poíticas. "Y nos lo el otro, en las jornadas que se cartanarior de fama de fama de family, y nos decía un ponente que, no longer doing the usual thing. And here we agree, Mr. Faraway and Mrs. Sánchez, that's what we agree with the government, but what we need is for once to get through to words, that's what we need. And the lawsuits here are lawsuits beyond narcotics, and so has Mrs. Guanche. And here too we must discuss a great many things. We have to discuss the business, discuss the premeditation of women's life, and the reasons for it. We must discuss how we want to look after our old men and our young men, and who will look after them, and discuss how a society that grows old determines its future. We must discuss this and the possibility of equality, and about all of them. Otherwise, this cultural change you're talking about will be empty. Therefore, we have introduced a monographicographic, in this monographicographic, that we believe a deep discussion can be given. Besides, we're glad to see you and the rest of us, that you see this frame well enough to give us that discussion. And I think we can mark a strategy inside this discussion, founded on both axes. On the one hand, about this cultured change of the veins, and about those groups of politics which come to value the life of men. And, no doubt, many and many of these politics. They'll be policies that can be grafted on the planet, policies that will come to deserve people's lives, and they'll probably be policies that come up to raise our narcotic rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. At the turn of the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I repeat that this government is late, because we have especially seen that this government was late, and especially because the government itself did not fulfil its engagements. And I think that having this point in common, it will be good to have it in common, as well as to examine the propositions we shall have in the monopographic debatae. Mrs Guanche told us that the initiative is repetitive. I have just said this, the initiative is repetitive because we have seen a lack of action by this Government in relation to family policies. Mrs. Kortajarena herself... I believe that there is a coincidence in the opposition groups that this government is late, that it was necessary to have acted for a long time and, above all, when the commitments made were there. And I'm repeating myself too much with these issues, but that's right, it's that the lehendakari in 2015 was telling us about a family strategy that was coming soon. And in 2016 he was talking about a strategy also with a multiannual investment of 200 million euros, linked to a plan that, logically, if we don't have it, we can't see that implementation of all those measures, with those budgetary commitments in the corresponding budgets. But look, I am not involved in helping families, but I believe that all of us in this area in Parliament have read carefully the Ararteko's reports, and the conclusions and recommendations of the Ararteko's reports on this issue, and in particular the Ararteko's report on support policies for families in 2014. And this report, apart from, of course, talking about a compendium of measures from an absolutely comprehensive, coordinated area, also makes it very clear that support for families needs to be improved. Direct aid, in order to converge with Europe. I mean, we're looking at Europe all day, and then we're not moving along the lines of Europe in support of families. But it is not the Ararteko report itself that says so, it is the third Family Plan, that the objective was to converge with Europe by 2020 and we have not converged at all. In addition, we are going almost, not the opposite, but we have made very clear progress. And in the progress that we can make this legislature, which for us is insufficient, but something is something, and of course we will have to address many more areas than birth aid, no doubt it is, but it is one of the points on which the Ararteko report emphasizes. We have a birth problem, Mrs Guanche, because that is the case, the advisor herself in the responses to the inquiry was telling us about the risk this poses to our Basque Autonomous Community. We have one of the lowest birth rates, not only for the rest of Spain, but for Europe. And we're talking about a 22% drop from 2016 to 2025. I believe that these figures which are already placed on the table, and which is the diagnosis made, must be a sign of alarm relevant enough for all those who have political, public responsibilities to be lit up by these alarms. Of course, the Socialist Party was also talking to me about similar initiatives. Of course, but we have seen, where you see progress we have seen stagnation. Yes, in the end we've seen the Family Strategy and Pact, but it's two years late. It's just that the Family Plan, the Fourth Plan... The III ended in 2015 and we still don't have it. I believe that we have reached a positive agreement in which we urge this government – you have entered into the agreement – to forward this plan within four months. I believe that if you already have that pact with regard to the family, you have to make an effort. It also stated the Ararteko report itself that it was necessary for this Government to exercise strong leadership in relation to family policies. That is what we are asking of this government, made up of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. And that has been the motivation of all our initiatives. I congratulate myself on today's agreement. I think it's a breakthrough. It is a starting point to be able to address the case study from a broad perspective. I have already announced that we are going to be absolutely ambitious in this debate and we will come to points of meeting with those who, of course, put family policies at the heart of the debate, encourage support for families, not only aid, but also any kind of policy that will certainly give decisive impetus, with effective measures, to the situation of families in the Basque Country, and which will correct and resolve structural problems that we have at the moment. So, I think this is a good starting point. I would like once again to thank the groups, the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for the agreement reached. And I regret that the agreement with the rest of the groups has not been possible, but I believe that it is sincerely a step forward, that the agreement today is an important step forward and that I do not humbly understand why you are demarcating from an agreement, because I believe that there are many more points in common in this matter than the discrepancies that you want to make in this rostrum. And I also hope that these points in common can be demonstrated and that we can reach comprehensive agreements with the Government, the opposition. Agreements between all of us in that monographic debate that we are going to have in the near future. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u64	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Miss Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u65	Well, Lehenik eta behin, Mrs. Garrido, I said it's repetitive but it's okay. It's okay, though you might, although you don't see that you're very interested in what I'm saying, open your eyes from time to time and ask, since we're here again and again discussing this issue, other issues. Mr Urrutia, you said that long-term projects must be made, not short-term dribbles. We agree with that and we agree that there has been a commitment, a commitment that is said to be about investing with the family and with children, but that is a commitment to increasing birth. Mrs Garrido, I do not deny the existence of a problem, but I do deny that there is only an apparently possible solution or a possible path. But I also deny that this is a commitment to children and the family, because I believe that this is a clear commitment or strategy for the increase of birth and nothing happens, I mean, I am not criminalizing or denying that this is not something that needs to be addressed. What I do know is that it is only part of this debate and part of the challenge that Euskadi has today, because there are things that could be done and are not being done de facto. So, if that commitment is so cross-cutting and so present in all public administrations, why, for example, since 2015 is Ararteko's recommendation to incorporate the best welfare of the child in all public policies and specifically in the income guarantee policy and Lanbide responds that this is a sector policy and that it is not its competence? Why was a cut in 2012 proposed, because things were wrong and we were in crisis and we all had to make an effort, but today the only people who continue to make the effort are those beneficiaries of social benefits who are possibly the least effort in this regard would have to make today? Issues that have been adopted and supported by the three parties at different times and from different locations. Why aren't haur-eskolak free today? Why is there not today an approach, a serious reflection, about the situation of social services that do not always have or do not have all the capacity to do prevention, to do work with communities and with the family? Why do we have a rate of emancipation of young people from the highest in Europe? Specifically, at the age of 30. Why don't we talk about all that? Why don't we talk about an average housing price of more than 800 euros a month? Why don't we talk about mothers and fathers who are alone with their children and whose poverty rates double those of other families? Yes, I understand that maybe announcing the pact on the radio or with that picture of all the men talking about birth is encouraging some people to have daughters and children and solve the problem. I sincerely believe that no, I believe that they are essential and I agree with things that both Mr Urrutia and Mrs Sánchez and Mrs Garrido have said that global strategies are necessary. Begirada glitters. A deep debate is needed. We agree absolutely not only with what Mrs Kortajarena has moved, but with the proposal for a monographic debate. We believe that agreements are indispensable, but to agree, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to be able to move and dialogue, not just looking for political results, or just trying to legitimise everything that is already being done. I agree with the approaches that have been made to the need for concrete measures, measurable and evaluable objectives, I insist, and I agree that it is necessary to define a budget and that it is sufficient. But we also understand – and of this in that amendment that is agreed today is not talked about – that supporting the family means actually having economic aid, but also political support for a fairer, more equal and more supportive society. We are ready to work again as we have done in past debates. We have the hand for a review of current policies, addressing them from a perspective of comprehensive improvement, and we hope that in March, in the monographic debate, we will have the opportunity to deepen this, opening the eyes of all and all, without resistance, simply opening the eyes and not focusing only on a very concrete aspect that has to do with the increase in birth. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u67	Very briefly, because I believe that everything has become very clear in the first exhibition. Mrs Garrido, the government or the government pact is not formed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, but by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. There are two games. However, regardless of everything, we have signed this compromise amendment – I said it in my first speech – because it served to recall the commitment of the IV Inter-institutional Family Support Plan. I noted a time limit which I also pointed out in my first speech, that commitment which had already been expressly enshrined in the Basque Pact for Families and Children, and to which the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy had also referred. But, well, it is good that that commitment was collected within the compromise amendment, although the deadline within the compromise amendment is even wider than the deadline given by the Employment and Social Policy Adviser herself. With this, we are most likely to have that Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children before the end of the deadline set within this own transactional amendment. Then, on the other hand, in the second point, I picked up something new, which was the reference to improve, within the framework of the Fourth Plan of Assistance to Families, all the support for them, and which was already taken up with regard to what marks the rest of the point in the amendment that was adopted at the plenary session on 9 March last year. Simply put, I think this is positive. We now have the Basque family strategy and employment, we have the pact, also recently adopted on 18 January this year, and we will soon, as we have already said, count on the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children. It would be desirable if we could have that IV Plan of Support for Families and Children before the monograph, because the correct and logical thing would be to have that plan before the monograph. I do not know if it will be possible, for the short time remaining until March 21 to celebrate that monograph. In any case, I believe that in this debate we have to go, of course, as all the different groups have pointed out, far beyond what the assistanceist approaches are, as I also said in my first speech. Because, although it is clear that they are a complement to the policies that have to be implemented, it cannot be the only one to be implemented. Because it is self-evident that they are not going to be able to solve the problem in the future and, as I also pointed out in my first speech, it is very important to carry out that global strategy that will serve and last over time, that this strategy will be as consensual as possible so that it will also last a long time at that time. If you're changing policies every two by three, you're cutting the long-term impact on the whole family strategy to achieve positive results. That strategy must be stable over time, so that, over the years, the effects of what has been agreed today will be achieved and will thus allow for a change in the dynamics that currently exists and that studies reveal. Without further ado, thank the groups that have signed the agreement for the effort made, and I also hope that with the other groups we can talk, agree within the monograph that we will very soon have and in which we will discuss in more depth on this subject. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u68	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u69	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'll be short. I don't think you've read medium, Mrs. Kotja's. Help, we agree that they're not economical, and the middle-class one says: "... Let family support be improved in IV. In the field of the plan. If we've signed that, we've signed it with another view, not just with economic perspective. Isn't that enough? I think I've confessed since the beginning. And today I'm satisfied, as I said in the first round, with the end of the cycle. We have to change the Tertium? Yeah. I said it myself. But as long as it does not change, we are even obliged to give an answer to the enterprises of this legislature. You've told me that we've lost the chance to be a transformer, and that we've lost the chance to reflect the contract on the fourth plan, and that we've lost the chance of being a changer. Well, I don't think we've lost that opportunity today, but I'd like to ask you one thing, and then with the best temper: When the plan of being a hip player comes, please don't put them in a perfile. I mean, there's always a game here, like a muse. I have one more, five more... Always more. No. Let's look at the next 10-15 years of this society for once. You're not going to tell me that you've lost the chance of making a ridiculous speech somewhere, when you've given me all the arguments you've given me at Dieri Vásan. The increase in birth rate is not the only objective. It is, too, because I don't know if you have a problem, but this society does have a problem with birth. Now, it is obvious that to address that, this is not addressed by saying: "Well, x euros..." and increasingly, and increasingly. No, no. It is clear that it must be addressed with cross-cutting, comprehensive measures that will affect all aspects of governance. That's what I think we all have meridianly clear. Look, seeing your amendment, I think it is true that it is closer to the new time we have to face. And now that you're not listening to us, no one's asking you for something. It's basically the same one I asked Mrs. Kortajarena. And it's that it's you, please, be natural. We have the will to reach an agreement. And not only will, I think we all need to reach an agreement. And, therefore, I personally liked your amendment and I hope it is not a closed, sacred and untouchable text; it is a working text from which we can begin to work and debate on this which I have dared to call the new cycle. And I'm asking you one thing, too. It is a thing that I miss quite a bit and that some other spokesperson in some other matter has ever reproached me. My hand and ours is stretched out. I just hope I don't see any fists closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Kotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u71	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, we are natural, como la vida misma, señor Fara. Tan naturales como eso. And we have no intention of putting perfile on it. We haven't had any previous discussions, and we won't have it this time, because we've introduced the initiative to introduce a profound debate about it, which will be coming on March 21, and we don't intend to put any perfile on any purpose. And you liked that initiative Mrs. Guanche introduced, that correction, but for the second time you said no to an enterprise proposed in very equal terms. Perhaps in the third, ye also descend with another naturality, and descend with generosity: "We're shut up, and we're able to go into other discussions." Because the truth, we in that debate, in which we are asked not to profile ourselves, do not want to talk about birth policies. That's a very reductionist, very reductionist perspective. We want to talk about family policies, and that implies another set of things, that implies another set of things. We have a very important challenge, which has to do with demographics, but it is a challenge that has more to do with good living, it has more to do with good living than with birth. Birth will surely increase if we are able to bring sons and daughters into a world that is more just, built under other parameters and in which projects of happiness can be guaranteed. That will be one of the guarantees to increase birth. And look, we're very clear if we're trying to achieve a permanent and direct social and demographic model, and Mrs. Sánchez also said that we should build a strategy on both axes, and that's why we've introduced the monograph. On the one hand, we must study the changes of social care-making, and, on the other hand, we must cultivate the series of public policies which lead to a decent guarantee of human life. And we'll have to talk about the separation of the job, we'll have to talk about the social employment, we'll have to discuss the protection system, we'll have to discuss the nicest homes and families to help us, the nices around the social services. We'll have to talk about everything. And, as has been said before, these two, besides guaranteeing basic rights and social justice, will affect the birth rate, we are sure. We must combine all the policies which we propose to combine in a wide and integrated strategy, which are proposed in this discussion, and will be included in this, of course, IV. Those policies that will come to the plan. And in that, we can also find agreements. And that's why we need that social and political contract to answer these popular challenges. And we'll have to talk about it. But if, as a matter of fact, we can all come in this discussion, which will be given in March with naturalness and generosity, and with this prospect of the future and past, we are sure it will be a very effective discussion, and our model of society in another direction will serve to design with a new North Social. But I don't want to finish my speech, taking advantage of President Urkullu's here, a review, not a strict criticism. For the covenant, the covenant, was brought with many pumps, and in this treaty they were also photographed. I'm not going to say what the pictures looked like, but I don't know if Mr. Urkullu saw the film "La vida de Brian," but we found a few semilitudes with the parts of that movie. And I don't know if you or anyone who came out of that picture would like to call Loreta and give birth to your right. I don't know, I guess not. That's a joke. It's not so serious. (Response) But I would tell you, Mr. Urkullu, that in that photograph, here, half the company of the Basques is missing. And that half of the Basque Society gives birth to the girls and boys of this country. And that we own our bodies, and will not accept that the Basque People will not accept the politics which mark political ends on our bodies in return for our bodies. That's why I feel like the head of the artillery department was very ugly in that corner and that these photos must be refined by the reality of this society. And in that challenge of family politics and of this people, there will be no challenge, this society will not be built in any other way without a woman. And the possession of our bodies is ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Popular Groups, the Esquilists, and the media that signed Euca Abertarians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u73	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "As the patrioticist and Basque Socialists did by parlamentary groups, the future of public policies in historical memory. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Romero, the Basque Socialist, has the word in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. I do not know whether we are going to be, in fact, above all those who and those who intervene in this point, repetitive or natural, but it is true that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u75	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u76	...we are going to deal with an issue that we discussed in the previous plenary session. And this Parliament and other Basque institutions have dealt with this matter, and I am sorry if I am going to repeat myself or repeat myself on any matter, because they all know the debate that took place last week. We refer to the initiative presented when I took part in the discussion of EH Bildu's proposal on an integral law of historical memory and explained this initiative. We wanted to make a common path for all those Basque political formations that we are truly committed to and shared with those public policies of memory. Today, fortunately, I have to say that we have reached a broad agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and ourselves, that we are presenting the initiative with EH Bildu and Podemos. To achieve this more or better correctly, it is true that it has been required of the generosity of all groups and that is why I must confirm that all of us want at last not only to talk about those initiatives of public policies of memory that have been carried out by the Basque institutions, as it says in the initiative, since the 1980s, but also about that will and proposals that have been presented in one sense or another by the different political traditions and political forces of the country. We have found a common path with that goal of memory and recognition and reparation to the victims of Francoism, taking into account what has been done and all the proposals that have been made and wills regarding historical memory, but also trying to reach a common consensus. I'm going to say again that it hasn't been easy, but I'm finally staying with it that's been possible. I am convinced of what has been signed in our agreement and that we have all left much of our way out to sign this transaction and to replace that "we" with the "they" or "they", who in the end are the victims of Francoism, all the people who suffered, who are really the ones who require all those public policies of memory, including an integral Basque law of memory. In that sense, I will say quickly what the points are. It is true that we recognize all these initiatives, also that we are going to continue to denounce the non-compliance with the Historical Memory Act, because it is true that there has been a repeated cover-up since 2011, coming from the People's Party, and the budget at zero has not allowed the development of all the memory policies included in the 2007 law, but it is also true that that law came late. That is why, in this initiative that exists in the Congress of Deputies, we hope to achieve better and with the greatest consensus, what we have presented by the Socialist Group, just as we intend to achieve with the greatest consensus, also, in the initiative that we have presented, that part of that complaint, that part of urging compliance with the law that has not been complied with, that part of a Gogora report, especially in the field of public policies of historical memory, and that it also ends with a law, if any, that will and will take account of that report. But it must also count, as I believe, that we all made reference in the debate, to the memorialist associations that have maintained, I insist, the fire of this demand while politics went much slower and also of the historical organizations, politics and trade unions and the academic opinions that on the subject exist in the various academic institutions of our country. I am particularly pleased with the agreement. I know that we are not all equally happy, but I am happy because there has been a lot of will and there has also been a lot of generosity. I'm sure you tell me about some more than others, but as far as I'm concerned, I can only be glad that we're here right now. It started wrong, but I hope it ends well, because the common goal I believe is shared by all the political forces that have signed that agreement. I used to say Tinixara, it's true, that repeating is not wrong, especially when you're going to look back at what you've done before and you're going to start new things in the future, once we have that Gogora report. That is why I insist that the hope and illusion that I have on the path initiated to achieve that law is one that allows me to say that everything that we have left on the path is the worst of that future law and to achieve the best with the greatest political agreement. Because I all believe that we share the values that should accompany it, of political pluralism, of defending human rights, of the culture of peace, of the right to know the truth of those who are victims, of their families, but not only of them, but also of the whole Basque society, of the whole Basque society and also of the Spanish one, who has much to know about what happened with regard to historical memory. The effort of the consensus that we now trust will be maintained once we have Gogora's report and we all begin to be able to work on that future law, with the participation, I have already said, of the memorialist associations, historical organizations and all those experiences, academic opinions that can help us, because, in the end, we also share that talking about memory at no time can be for Basque society and Basque political forces to open or reopen wounds, but the opposite. We expect that what we want is to put an end to hatred and resentment and finally open a path where the wound stops bleeding. And stop bleeding for all those generations who have lived in silence and passed on to their children the forgetfulness of the institutions as to what has been suffered since the uprising of the Franco regime against the legitimate Government of the Republic, passing through the Civil War and reaching the terrible Franco regime. I insist, thank you. It's a good way. I also hope to share this project in the future, to recognize the victims, to share the places and paths of memory in this country and to avoid any kind of advocacy of Francoism, because, in the end, memory never goes against anyone, it does no harm to anyone, it does no harm to anyone and it only always thanks the present and future of the country that works it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u78	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Chief. We've talked a long time about historical memory in the last few weeks of this legislature. Last one last Thursday. So I won't prolong my speech. But if anything has been cleared up this time, it is the importance of historical memory in our country, and that most of the legislatures share that importance. Opinion, however, is believed to be a democratic right of memory; it answers the will to share the critical thought of the events of our history, which have violated human rights, and guarantees the same events never to be repeated. We all share in the memory that several public enterprises have been conducted in the last decades, and also in the legislative enterprises. High-school has developed a solid, integrated activity plan in the last few days, and in this work it has got a great deal of harmony between political parties, even with social agents. Anyway, we'll continue to work so that all the victims who've been murdered and tortured or harassed can't be kept secret. We are engaged to keep memory from repeating what has happened in the past. The policies of memory and coexistence have always been the subject of a special effort of consensus and agreement on the part of the political groups, and I am glad that on this occasion too, we have managed – differences on the margins – to agree on a shared path to evaluate the policies implemented so far and to plan an improvement of them, including, where appropriate, a new legislative initiative that complements them and offers a legal closure to all of them. It is therefore up to us to unite and reconcile so that the instruments that can be implemented in the future can be effective. So instead of intervening in this turn in defense of the non-law proposal presented by the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group, I do so in defense of the amendment we have had sex with the Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu groups. And I would like to do so first of all by thanking both groups, and especially Mr Hernández and Mr Arzuaga, for their willingness and effort to achieve this agreement. We share the four groups' unequivocal willingness to continue moving forward, also to analyse what has been achieved so far and to evaluate the instruments put in place in order to give new impetus to memory policies. In the text that we have agreed, in addition to denouncing, as Mrs Romero said, the repeated breaches of Law 52/2007 of 26 December of Historical Memory, by the very one who should be the principal in this matter and the principal in charge of putting them into operation, we ask the Gogora Institute to draw up within eight months – within a fixed period, therefore – a report which, on the basis of what has been done to date, identifies the needs that historical memory public policies can present, and which have the widest possible consensus within its board of directors, as well as the participation of the memorialist groups and historical political and trade union organizations of Basque civil society. In the same way, we undertake, on the basis of this report, to undertake in its case a Basque law of integral historical memory, which collects the work of the memorialist movements, historical institutions, and that they take into account the technical opinion of the academic institutions guaranteeing the participation of these agents in their regulatory process. And with this we sign, we commit ourselves, and we fulfill our word. We will continue to make progress on this issue and we will do so from dialogue and the search for agreements. In any case, this Government and the group I represent will continue to work to ensure that all victims who have been killed, tortured or persecuted are not buried under the cloak of silence. We will continue to promote and strengthen the historical memory of this people as a guarantee, with better guarantee of not repeating the mistakes of the past. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u79	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u80	Yes, good day to you congressmen. I too am pleased, Mrs Romero, a little snoring, but I am happy with the agreement reached, although you know that it seems to us somewhat inadequate. As you know, from our coalition we have already repeatedly expressed the need to draw up a Basque law of historical memory. I did defend it a week ago in this House when the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party rejected the possibility of initiating the processing of the proposal brought by EH Bildu. A rejection that also weighed on us, because it added to the rejection that in its day we find ourselves on the part of PNV, People's Party, with the abstention of its group, to the proposal of law that we brought for the legal reparation of the victims of the dictatorship. There were two parliamentary initiatives on historical memory that were rejected by these groups and also rejected by the Basque Government. Two initiatives which, in our view, would have been a step forward on the issue of historical memory and towards the victims of the dictatorship and which were rejected by you, and in particular by the Basque Government, with their assessments of them. And I will not tire of saying, despite today's agreement, that on that first occasion it was also, of course, made with absolutely inconsistent arguments, as we brought here a proposal for a law that was a calcum of Catalan law that had been approved throughout the political spectrum, from the UPCs to the People's and Citizens' Party, and that today it is still unchallenged in the Constitutional Court by anyone. And of course, today we are going to be consistent and we are going to continue to defend from our coalition, I am going to defend the convenience of a law of integral historical memory. We believe that it is necessary, that it is timely and that it is already time. Our group does not, of course, have a problem in handling all the necessary reports, not only to Gogora, but also to more actors, as has finally been reflected in the agreement. But my group is clear that we need a historic memory law in Euskadi, and that there is a majority will in society and in this House to carry it out without any report giving me the opinion whether we need to legislate or not, because we think that this is a political issue and not a technical one. Gogora has a very important role and we will support it, but the political issues have to be resolved here, relying on Gogora's opinion, yes, but also on the opinion, as has been said, of other actors such as historical memory associations, historical, political and trade union organizations and various professionals, with all of them. Although today we have reached a majority agreement that will allow us to have a Basque law of historical memory, of democratic memory, this has been only possible finally thanks to the left hand that some have had and have had in the development of debates and positions, not only this week, but since we brought the first initiative on historical memory of this legislature. We are still not clear – as I said – that we need that law, and that is why we are putting forward and we are going to continue to put forward the goal of getting the law that we need above political strategies aimed at seeing who hangs the medal. And that is why we have made important efforts this week to prevent the closure, in our opinion, especially of the Basque Nationalist Party, for the third time in the parliamentary term, to prevent a minimum agreement from being reached and, therefore, there would be a third time in which nothing comes out of the House. The truth is that it could have happened, today we have been about to happen, and in our opinion it would have been quite serious. The way to get here, the way of the last few months has been plagued with reticence and what is worse, in my opinion, many of them unexpected for most people concerned about this issue, unexpected for the origin of them. We were already counting on the resistance of the People's Party. No one will be surprised by the attitude of the People's Party against developing an integral historical memory law for Euskadi, but the surprising thing in this whole process, in these months, has not been the attitude of the People's Party but the attitude of the parties that make up the Government, and in particular, I have to say, of the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, when I came to this Parliament I knew that on important political issues I was going to confront the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party is in my ideological antipodes above all on economic and social issues, and also with socialist tradition for many decades that, because of my communist tradition, we have profound ideological and economic differences. But there are political issues that I was aware of, or at least I believed and still believe, where positions are more coincident and where we should have no particular difficulty in agreeing. The historical memory, the democratic memory of our country, is one of these issues where we should have shared interests if we look to our history and the history of our country after that bitter fascist coup and the subsequent military dictatorship that we all suffer. There are, of course, things we do not agree with, such as the partisan use that has been made of historical memory by taking advantage of the situation that some occupied in governments and in different institutional and communicative areas. But we were convinced, of course I was, and I am, that there would be enough political coincidence on a subject like this and that it would not therefore be one of those issues of great confrontation between you and us in this Parliament. My surprise, the truth is that it has been happening since my group introduced the first initiative on historical memory of this legislature a few months ago and found that door, especially of the Government. On the government's legislative agenda for this legislature, as I said last week, there was no trace of historical memory, nor is there any trace of it in the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, despite being an important issue, I am convinced, for both political parties. And therefore, in our view, what has caused this confrontation and the closure in the face of the need for a law of historical memory for some time is precisely in the pride and fear that the lack of initiative of the Government and of the groups that support it on this issue will be highlighted. And, above all, that it could be seen that the opposition has taken the initiative on such a sensitive issue for you and for us as this. For this reason, after rejecting the initiative of my group and given the news that EH Bildu was registering an initiative on historical memory, I think you decided to register a GNP, which we discussed today, in order to have something with which to justify a second rejection, the rejection of the initiative of EH Bildu. I sincerely believe that this is what has happened, that the Basque Nationalist Party has always been concerned to save the face of the Government, and to that end, it has tactically maneuvered over such a sensitive issue as historical memory. The argument he has put on the table, the concrete excuse, in our opinion, he has sought is that we do not know if we need a historical memory law until Gogora makes a report. We are clear that you did not want to be in favour of a law, because your Government had not raised it, but you could not be openly opposed to a law of historical memory on such a sensitive issue for you as well. I therefore believe that it has been invented that we cannot know whether we are in favour of a historical memory law until a report has been drawn up, as if they had no political opinion. I think they have it. In any case, as our group said earlier, it has made an effort because this issue for us is very important, and we have reached an agreement that in our opinion makes it clear to me that we are going to have a law of historical memory. The PNV did not want to go further, it did not want to explicitly accept that we are going to have it, it was its red line to reach an agreement, a legitimate red line, but that I cannot share, they did not want Parliament to pronounce itself more forcefully in favour of the need for a historical memory law and they were only able to accept it finally under the phrase: "The Basque Parliament will, in its case, commit a historical memory law". To us, I will tell you, Mr Iturrate already knows, we have that "in his case", but we knew that this was the possible meeting point. We believe that today we should have said clearly: "The Basque Parliament will commit a law of historical memory". But we have had a waist, because if we did not reach an agreement, the result was inevitable that nothing would come out of this House, and what is worse, that it would have been a parliamentary stoppage in the face of the possibility of having a historical memory law in this legislature. We, since my coalition Elkarrekin We can, have decided to conjure ourselves against this, and that is why we have reached this agreement, this agreement, and I conclude now, that for us it has two inexorable mandates. One, we need to push forward a law of integral historical memory in Euskadi and, two, we need to do so with different actors and not just those who are more comfortable for the government. To do so, as has been said, with historical memory associations, historical political and trade union organizations and different professionals in this field. Of course, our coalition's commitment to that future law I believe has been demonstrated, I hope we can all say the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u82	Thank you, President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. Mr Hernandez, it is not going to be resistance what you will find in the People's Party to talk about any initiative and approach by anyone. There will be criterion, criterion in relation to whether it is legal, with which if it is in accordance with the Constitution, with which if we understand that this can be spoken here or should be spoken and discussed elsewhere. But it's not going to be resistance. I want to say that – forget some of those reservations always with the People's Party – we have shown you here that we talk about everything, anything, and we do it seriously and rigorously. Let us differ in concept and substance, I do not know whether on social issues, economic issues or on what issues, but we do so rigorously. I guess you'll try to do it with rigor and not voluntarism. We run away from voluntarism and focus on rigor, so don't make disqualifications for free, because that's not the case. For us, this initiative presented by the groups supporting the Government is quite striking. To urge an institution, Gogora, to perform the functions we thought it already had attributed by law, of course, does not cease to be, from our point of view, a repetition at the bottom of something that is already regulated and regulated. I mean, this non-law proposition for us is unnecessary, or it's a simple reminder. Either the groups do not trust enough in the work of the institution or its purpose in substance may be another. But we do not see very clearly, in that sense, the purpose of this initiative. The groups that support the Government are presenting a repeat GNP on their own commitments, also undertaken in the search, I believe, in relation to this initiative, of a counterpoint to the failure to take into consideration the proposals of law of Podemos and Bildu. It is a sort of pose, counterpoint to that, perhaps, difficult situation. But that has already been explained in every way by both Mrs Romero and Mr Iturrate and with credit in this House in past debates. It gives the impression that, in both initiatives, the Basque Government's approach may have been insufficient and they have wanted to make a complementary effort, it seems, to that report of the Basque Government which was opposed for various reasons, some which we too share, to the consideration of the initiatives. The truth is that although the compromise amendment finally signed has four points, I believe that the initiative is divided into two, it is divided into two. With one we do not agree to be, I think, too drastic. And with the other, because it is already arranged, it is already regulated, it is already organized, even with timetables and programs. I have to refer to documents, to Law 4/2014, of Creation of the Institute of Memory and Co-existence, the Plan of Co-existence 2017-2020, which also frame actions that will then be reflected in the program of action of Gogora 2017-2020. Now I'm going to refer briefly to them. But that is already marked, in that work we could already be working for a long time, and the groups supporting the Government, like the rest of the groups, could already be working on that issue. Even the institution itself could be working at that time without the need for an eight-month instance or a report. Anyway, that topic I think with will you could have been working already. That is to say, I believe that we are in a somewhat fictitious debate on these issues as well. And quite a pose. I told him that from the first part, that of denouncing, well, we would be denouncing all the time the violation of the laws in this Parliament, but almost all the laws are non-compliance, you can say. There would be countless examples. Report non-compliances. Why don't you talk another way? Why is it not more positive, when there is a lack of development, when there is some difficulty, when there are gaps? I believe that, of course, we are opposed to this first point because denouncing is not the word, we should be permanently denouncing breaches of the administrations, of this government, of all the others and of the laws of this Parliament. That is to say, in that sense, I believe that we need to fine-tune a little more in order to arbitrate initiatives in that direction. Even the Basque Government itself, in its opinion last week, did not speak of non-compliance. He spoke of gaps that could be identified in relation to memory policies. Well, that may be so. And we, in our amendment to the whole of this initiative, also spoke of the possibility of urging various institutions, which depend on this Parliament and this institution, or others, to continue to make progress in this area of incompleteness, so that progress can be made. And if we're talking about the possibility, even, of a law, that's too much reason. But, well, I don't think it's time for systematic denunciation when there can be things that can be completed or areas that can be moved forward. In other words, he said he had two parts. The part of the complaint, therefore, so that the initiative, by the degree of understanding that it is a counterpoint to the previous debates, has to be a little forceful and a little solvent. The rest, we go into indefinition. The rest, we enter the indefinition, in the instance to Gogora to do a job, we will see which, we will see under what conditions, we will see with which conclusions. But it's something that's repetitive. In other words, Gogora, Law 4/2014 already spoke of the creation of the Institute, precisely the memory. This Parliament created that Institute for that, for issues like those, like the one we are talking about, I suppose so. The purpose was there: to promote public policies of memory, active agent of them. Article 3, the purpose. The functions, with Article 4. The coordination of public policies and many others linked to the development of institutional collaboration, where laws such as the one being called for would be framed, policies of commemoration, conservation, research, training, participation, dissemination, consultation, in effective memory policies, of policies. We're talking about something you could be doing. I mean, we don't have to discuss that. Moreover, in the same Law 4/2014 on Gogora, there are the functions of the respective organs that make up it, which are also functions that drive policies of these characteristics. Another document to which we can refer is the plan of coexistence and human rights 2017-2020. Indeed, already within the scope of historical memory, it is said that it will be established in relation to the process of clarification of Basque institutional recognition of the truth of historical memory, that is, that there is already a framework. And in addition, this framework still establishes another possibility of action, which is the third major commitment in the area in which it can be worked, the Gogora Action Plan 2017-2020. In addition, the Gogora 2020 Action Plan on memory is comprehensive. In other words, the action programme, the timetable, the actions, is full of sections and headings, both in the first part of this Action Plan, in the general framework, and in the second part, in the strategic guidelines, where we talk about the specific objectives, of projects with special strategic relevance, recognition of reality, reference frameworks. And with a third phase, which is already the phase of the programme of action in relation to the projects relating to the Historical Memory 1936-1975, collaboration with institutions, contribution to the truth, dissemination of the recognition to the truth of the historical memory and reparation of the victims of Francoism. We are talking about issues that we have already talked about, which are already agreed, we must not seek agreements on what may already be institutional. That is why we are not going to support this initiative. We will not support this initiative. We will talk about what needs to be talked about, and what initiatives are being brought in and what possibilities for action we can talk about, but this initiative is unnecessary, Mr Iturrate. You used a term the other day, "immature", "immature" in relation to some initiatives. This initiative is a little counterpoint to something that government partners have had to agree on in relation to an attitude in this regard. But I ask you, please, not to make us the one from the last legislature. I mean, what was that of the last legislature? To say that a law was to come – Law 12/2016, it seems to me that it was called that of victims of political motivation – a report, a draft, a second draft. At the end of the legislature comes a law, we have a month to discuss it, to approve it, to make the presentation, to make the amendments and for all that. Bring the law now. If anyone wants to bring the law, really, a law that is going to have a constitutional contrast – the one of the other day was a disaster – let him bring it, but let him bring it now, let them not leave it for the last moment where we cannot study it, where we cannot debate it, where we cannot constrict it, as was the example of Law 12/2016. Please, if there is any effort in that direction, please allow time for legislators to do it right and not like the previous time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon, good afternoon to all. It may be a great temptation to continue the weekly discussions of the past week to-day, when we consider it at the present day for some sort of historical memory, the third and fourth conference shifts of the legal proposition presented to us last week. I'm not going to, but I guess there's a lot of things that were then said about this agreement we signed today. We then said that our goal, the sole cause, was to defend history, and that it was only to burn the victims of Fancism and open the means to observe them. That and nothing else. This was intended to question, other ends, as we thought we had other reasons. Our will was to harm a particular party, or interfere with a particular party. This agreement will show that the truth, justice, and memory of these victims are the sole aim, the challenge. Today's deal shows the impostor's attitude of the EAJ which we accused. EAJ accepts that there is a law, but in its conditions. There will be law, if it be on the basis of the law appointed by it. And this, as we said, is very dangerous in view of the future, because it destroys or destroys the legislative initiative of the parlamentary groups. He perverts the same figure of the legal proposition. Our legislative initiative sought to pave the way for the full recognition and reparation of all the victims of Francoism. By the way, victims who today do not receive any law. Moreover, victims who have hardly any expectations that a law will accommodate them. We wanted to launch the legislative path. And today we have signed this transactional because we precisely understand that we are closer to this law. Finally, it seems that we are in motion and it seems that the tribute to making a law was to do so under the conditions imposed by the PNV. We could have invoked grievances to oppose this agreement, we could have paralyzed ourselves in the unjustified rejection of our law so that today there would be no agreement or at least not so broad, we could have stuck to the contempt with which we were answered last week to get out of today's agreement. We could have done it, but we haven't, because we're not like that. Because that's what you gentlemen of the PNV do, that's what you do, Mr. Iturrate. But we're not like that, we're not like you. That we signed this transaction is proof that there was no propaganda in our initiative. There were no avious interests against anyone. Again, there was a legitimate, legitimate and sincere will to open the debate. Today's assumption of this scheme of work is definitive proof that EH Bildu had no second intentions, neither in this, nor in any other initiative. It will be on your terms, ladies and gentlemen of the PSE, above all on your terms, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV. Good. This was the toll to pay, but there will be law, it will be in a longer time, but there will be law. The victims of Francoism, the associations that precisely came out last week in defense of a law of historical memory after the spectacle they saw in this House, may again see light at the end of that tunnel, which may already become too long. There will be a prior, technical report, which we will read with interest and attention, and in that report we are convinced that there will be a need for a law, because even if it is totally on the side, I do not imagine that a technician, an adviser, a lawyer responsible for drafting it can make amends to existing initiatives or other new actions for memory, to be guaranteed by a law, to be provided with legal certainty, to have support and also to have legal imperative. I cannot imagine that this report does not support the fact that we are making the normative development of Law 52/2007, effective, insufficient and non-compliant, as has already been done in other communities. I cannot imagine that this report does not reflect the international requirements that oblige us to take effective measures of recognition and reparation to the victims of fascism. And after the report, a law will come, if any, as we have not been able to arrive later in this transactional... But I can't figure out what case he's not coming. And I link this GNP that we will approve today with that other GNP that was approved in 2008 and that called for a truth commission, and that I believe both constitute a whole. A decision, that, like today's one, takes on commitments and that are not, moreover, baladi commitments. We often feel that the debates that we have here have no relevance outside and yet the memorialist groups, the associations that work with victims of Francoism, remember that GNP of 2008, because they hope to see it fulfilled, that the institutions will launch a process of truth and justice, something that cannot be done unless it is through law and we cannot do this law if it does not contain a commission of truth, something that has also been taken up in this Parliament. We said, a law will come, and EH Collect will work as hard as he can, so that this law may be as complete as possible. That is why we keep our bill of law, where we already have our corrections ready. Perhaps a lack of this proposal which we have now agreed calls for an eight-month report, but nothing says about the successive steps. We cannot sleep, we cannot be dragged away by dilatory temptations, by a will to postpone what is unreplaceable. After the report, the initiative remains in the hands of Parliament, and what is absolutely clear to me today is that the PP will not be in this initiative. The PNV will, in its case, be in that indefinacy that has forced us to reach this transactional. The PSE does show a favourable attitude, I understand, that there is a law, but, for today, I have only seen in Elkarrekin.We can express a will for us to come to the end with this law. We cannot table another bill this year because it would be repetitive. However, if we delay the process that we are voting today, without reason or reason, EH Bildu shows his commitment to consensus, at least with Elkarrekin Podemos, a bill to be presented at the beginning of the next legislative year, in early 2019. I want to be happy, I want to be happy that the only one that feels uncomfortable today is with this proposal because PP was supposed to be that way. Now I think we're focusing on the process of making a law for memory. Because PP appears against his solitude, against memory, against the burning and observation of the victims of Fankism, because everything is done for him. Therefore, for the contrary, let us follow the course of truth, justice, and memory; let us take notice of the victims of Fancism. Let's turn on the debts of this eulogy society that's still in store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u85	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answer to the call, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernandez and Mr Arzuaga, I start with the position on what the Socialist Party is thinking, because the other day, on the occasion of the debate, I said it, I will not read it again. The only thing I said then, I repeat now, is that it is about finding a common path, which has been reiterated. Obviously, the autonomous law, the Basque integral law that could be achieved in this Parliament is not the same as the Socialist Party could propose and proposed EH Bildu, but on the will for a legal framework of historical memory within the Basque Country, we do agree. Of course, my party agrees, but it's not my party's. As you said before, the differences we have, it is not EH Bildu, it is not the Basque Nationalist Party, and what we have tried to find is a common path. It is true that the Socialist Party made the 2007 Act, as it is true that it is the one that has proposed the reform of that 2007 Act, because Mr. Barrio, indeed, that Act has not been complied with. Let us hope that this will of agreement, that this will of agreement will also be done with respect to the proposal for reform and will not pass it on as the proposal to end the labour reform or to end the permanent prison that can be reviewed, or to act, for example, with the law on gags, which is subject to continuous deadlines and extensions, so that the Congress of Deputies cannot deal with reforms of the legislation established so far, that there is sufficient consensus. I believe that in this matter of historical memory also the Congress of Deputies where, in fact, it has the competence to achieve certain issues. In that regard, I am talking about the Truth Commission. The position we have is reflected in many of the autonomous laws that have been adopted, not only by us, but in many cases accompanied by Podemos and the United Left. We are talking about a council that can, without exceeding the powers we have, collaborate with that Truth Commission that does want to create the proposed law presented at the Congress of Deputies. I say that it is the two issues that have been raised, I will not reiterate to you again what has been... It is our position and the common place in which we have found ourselves. That is why I say that this has not been easy, and I suppose it will not be easy either when we all feel like talking about the content of the law, because there will be quite a lot more differences there than we now have on how to make a law. I used to say the other day, the important thing is what, not how. Now, in eight months, the important thing is what. What so that we all agree to pull out that historical memory law. And indeed, they were talking about the Basque Government. I believe that finally the advisers and advisers who are in the Basque Government, regardless of what the reports say, are politicians and politicians who represent, they have said, parties that I believe – I am not going to speak only of those who are on behalf of the Socialist Party – that have a will with public policies of historical memory. It's how, we're not going to get to what, but finally when we get to what, Mr Hernández, Mr Arzuaga, we're going to need a far greater effort of generosity than the one we're getting to right now. I am not going to say what I have already repeated in the first intervention, nor what specialists like Reyes Mate say, which knows much more than I do about historical memory and other memories. The duty has been imposed on us not to repeat what happened, and what was, as Hannah Arendt said, the banality of evil, both of the Nazis, and of the Francoists, as well as of all those who have practiced violence and violated human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u88	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. It was not foreseeable that today's debate could be dealt with by some looking at the rear-view mirror, rather than the front windshield. And well, indeed it has been, as if this were a second or a third round of previous debates, especially as if one had to collect a debt that could not be collected on a previous occasion. I don't know, it's a very particular way of dealing with consensus. In any case, I am not going to enter these debates because they are already finished, and Parliament has already spoken, which is the expression of the democratic will, and of the sovereignty of the people, of the citizens, when it speaks in a sense favourable to our thesis, and when it speaks in a sense contrary to them. It is democratic in all cases. In any case, Mr Hernández said that they had a waist, that he had a waist, in contrast to the lack of a waist of others. But it is obvious that if we talk about waist, you and I, you carry the winning ones, although I am making my efforts, especially lately. But anyway, I think we've shown the same waist. We were facing this issue, and I said it. It's just that I'm not hiding anything, I said it in the previous debate. We consider the Constitution Act of the Basque Institute of Memory and Human Rights and Co-existence to be our Historical Memory Act. I believe that we have a law that can serve, and that serves, and that covers all public policies of historical memory that we want to implement. That was our starting point. I don't know what's wrong with it. We're not hiding it. And as we have heard the other groups, as we have seen the position of the other groups, it is clear that we have to find a way. That doesn't mean we're denouncing what we think. No, no, We are checking the views of other groups, and we are assessing and contrasting that opinion. But that is not a waste for this parliamentary group. On the contrary, not for the party I represent. I think it is a democratic value and we are proud of it. We don't want or refuse a law. And I am not going to talk again about the previous debates, but we are voting not for a law of historical memory, or whether it is good or not, we were voting on specific texts. And it is clear that proposals for legislation are regulatory instruments, no one needs to remind us. And the debates on the proposals for legislation have a turn for and a turn against, so that the groups can stand for and against. And as legitimate and as democratic and as regulatory is to stand in favour of it as against it. And that is neither boycotting, nor coercing, nor eliminating the possibility of presenting proposals for law, Mr Arzuaga. What needs to be done is that for a bill to come forward, it has more votes in favour than against. And for that, when you face a bill with 18 parliamentarians, you will have to look for those who are missing up to 38, which is 20 more. And with that will, with that same will that we face today the non-legislative proposal that you have joined, I hope we will face the proposed law that is presented, if it comes to be presented, if the report considers that a law is necessary, and under what conditions it must be given. And from that moment on, we'll discuss what the contents have to be, and everyone will put their arguments and votes on the table. That vows are not a threat, nor is it a pain in the ass, it is simply the citizens that one represents, the wills that one represents. That's why we're here representing the wills of the citizenry. Mr Hernandez, you and I, your party and mine, share many years of history against the dictatorship. We share stories of suffering and struggle against the dictatorship, and we have also shared policies of memory and public actions in the matter of historical memory, and I am sure that we will continue to do so, but that does not mean that we have to share all their opinions, that we have to give the approval to a proposal of law that seemed radically bad, negative and for the reasons we gave. That you do not share the arguments we have given, is not reason enough for you to say that we have not given arguments. I don't like them, the ones you said, but that we didn't give arguments, that our position was unjustified, no. Anyway, we're not talking about that. You know how it works to reach agreements, making efforts on both sides. You, I have acknowledged the effort you have made to reach an agreement and I believe that we have made one from our initial positions on this issue to reach this agreement. And I believe, moreover, that it will be a positive agreement, that it will open a door so that in the near future, from eight months on, we can continue to make progress on this path of improving the policies of memory, provided that they are done from the fruit of consensus and agreement. And whatever comes, if it has to come, it won't be a law with the conditions of the PNV. It will be a law, in any case, that if you want the support of the PNV, you will have to have the agreement of the PNV. And agreements are forged through dialogue and consensus, not through imposition, or by surprise presentation of initiatives. In this particular subject. We have said that we are serious about this issue. We have said that we are committed to what we have signed and we will keep the word of what we have signed. But what we agree will be because we are convinced that it will be the best for this country, for the memory of this country and for the rights of the victims in this country, not because no one intends to impose anything on us. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u89	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u90	Yeah, well, first I wanted to address Mr. Carmelo Barrio, Mr. Barrio. I am not the one to tell you what you may or may not consider an aggravation, but, frankly, my opinion, that we have the political opinion, that it is not a prejudice, that it is a political opinion based on our political experience, that we have the opinion that the People's Party can be reactionary or can be reactionary to a law, that it can be contrary to whether we start or have a law of integral historical memory, because it is a political position, it is not an aggravation, it is what we think, what we think. Simply, if we finally have a historical memory law that our group is convinced of and the People's Party is in the signing of that law, we have no problem, but our political opinion, based on an experience, is that, and I did not, of course, intend to aggravate it, but to make clear what our opinion is regarding the position that the People's Party generally maintains on this issue. And even, in a way, I don't know if it can be understandable, bearing in mind that in his party there are people who come from that past. But, of course, it was not my intention to aggravate it, but to explain my position. I was saying at first that we were happy with what was agreed today and I repeat myself in this, beyond that in my speech, not so much for looking at the rearview mirror because yes, but because I believe that in a debate like this we must take into account everything we have been talking about these months. Because I sincerely believe that it is part of a whole and we had the sincere opinion and we have the sincere opinion that some movements, some positions of the Basque Nationalist Party had to do with, have to do with the issues that I have raised before. And we think so. But, indeed, we look forward and more on a matter like this. And also, as when I came to this House, I on a matter like this do not want to have in front of the PNV, nor do I want to be in front of the PNV, nor of the Socialist Party. On the contrary, in fact, you have said that we have a common history, it is true, your veterans, their veterans, veterans of those and our veterans many years ago fought in the same trench and suffered the same repression, the same repression that the whole of society suffered. And therefore, we are obliged to agree on a matter like this. But my criticism, that I can understand that in a debate, after an agreement, it may cost reproach, but it is simply a political reproach, it is not so much that they rejected your initiative or rejected last week's initiative of EH Bildu. It is a reproach because I believe that we were in condition, I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party is in condition, and if other elements did not intervene, I would be in a position to say openly that we need a law of integral historical memory, because things are missing to do. Because I believe that even if you say that the Law of the Gogora Institute is our Law of Historical Memory, if that is so, it is an incomplete law, that many things are missing. And, therefore, I believe that in substance we agree that this Basque integral law of historical memory is needed. And, indeed, I agree with Mrs Romero that then we will fight politically for what that law has to be like. I'm out of here, like I said at first, happy. It is not what we would have liked, at least we would have liked that "in your case" not to appear. I already recognized Mr. Iturrate who understood that at the moment that was the meeting point. We're going to work on a historical memory law, the historical memory law we need. I hope that we will all work in that direction and I hope that we will finally have it. And I think it will have a lot to do with the will of the political parties and, as has been shown to me in recent days, the will of some people in the different political parties so that this can be so, because, as I have said on several occasions, we believe that it is an imperative necessity. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u91	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mr Barrio, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u92	Thank you, President. Well, I'm going back to a question I've referred to before. Let's see, we don't have to elude or elude any debate. And, in addition, we will be constructive, when we come to the debate, as in any draft law, and we will bring our vision, critical or favorable, or, in any case, constructive in relation to the approach, to the debates that are being held. We do ask for a little bit of... And I have set the example of what happened in the past legislature with Law 12/2016, which came at the last moment and that we had to violate the whole parliamentary process, blow up all precedents in relation to a regulation of a law and in a month make an ad hoc regulation, imposed, without possibility of debate, without possibility of it being possible to contribute. I understand that if someone is in a position to present that text, that they present it, but that they really present it. And really and in time for us to discuss it. In any case, I say again, we are talking about the actions of bodies that we already have, we are giving work to bodies that are already installed, in addition by law, and that have the function of regulating, of talking about transferring proposals and public policies on memory. And, in addition, bodies that are chaired on their governing councils by the Lehendakari of the Basque Government. That is, those initiatives, those initiatives that we are talking about today as something so new, so new, could also have been put forward in action programmes, because the 2017-2020 action programme talks about many of these things, but in any case, not legislative instruments. I mean, let's see if we can work, of course, with strategic elements and orientations. I, Mr Hernandez, didn't mean any harm. You criticize me. Also some public office of Podemos was one of the last delegates of the OJE. I mean, it doesn't happen either. I mean, in that sense, history is out there and we can talk about anything. We need to talk about the current debate. I mean, I think sometimes the references of your party, I don't tell you, because I think you are a very correct and polite person and, of course, criticizes us, calls us reactionary, from time to time, and so on. But well, I have to prove to you that... I can criticize you and I can oppose your initiative because I consider it unconstitutional, or impossible to carry out. And I do not want to put this Parliament into a legal problem, and that expression or that approach you have to respect. I do not, of course, resist any legal approach in that regard, any historical memory law. But, in any case, I will have the conditions, of course, to enter into the debate and the approaches, but also with my criteria, and with my reticence, and being able to feel myself as a defender of legal realities or constitutional realities that you do not like, but that I have an obligation to defend. So, in that sense, I think there has to be a little more rigour, of course, in what is the reference to disqualification to the People's Party by system on these issues, because you know, and you all know, that we get into these issues without eluding ourselves in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Romero, I thank you for your sharpness in your willingness to come to the law. But he says we've established the common path. Man, the common path is the bill that goes to paper and that in paper it is discussed, and once it passes through the commission, that it comes to full and that the law is passed. And that's exactly what we wanted to have set in motion. And we could already be in that debate. What's going on is that we've now delayed him a year. I believe that for something, and it is because you have wanted to do this under conditions and after circumstances that you are more prone to the situation that you as a government should have. Mr Iturrate accuses us of using the rear-view mirror and he immediately uses it. We were voting on some specific texts, he says. Not at all, not at all. We weren't voting on some texts. We were voting to see if the texts we presented, for one or the other, served to open the process. And you also spoke of my text, in fact, spoke of article 16, and article 21, and of the article I don't know what. And he started talking about the text here. He could have put forward amendments. He could have put forward all the amendments. He could have completely turned Elkarrekin's text We can or ours. And we would have won a year. What you did was use a conspiracy theory, which is that EH Bildu's initiative was only going against the PNV. And the agreement signed today and the attitude maintained by EH Bildu throughout this course contradicts him. This is exactly the reading to be done. When you brought this initiative, this GNP, did you know that you would save 66 votes? I didn't know. I didn't know when I brought my initiative that was going to be thrown into the trash. You didn't call me. Have you called me to put in or to intervene this GNP? Did you call me? You didn't even call me to get to the transaction. Thank you, Mr Hernández, thank you, Mrs Romero. You've come to sign it. He asked us to introduce him, he said. He introduced her by surprise, accuses us. With our attitude towards this GNP we have been far more generous than you were with the initiatives that we put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos and us so that this process could be opened. I guess we're getting the logic back, while we're getting back, with all this discussion, we're getting our course back. And if anyone feels uncomfortable today, that would be PP. It is the child, the descendants of Fancism, who would not do anything for the victims of Fancism, to do nothing for truth, to do nothing for justice. I think it's a good news again that all the victims, all of them, to observe and record, should be protected by all the victims by the war of fascists, and by all the victims who created the defeatist regimes, to protect truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the Eucalists, the Eucan patriots, the half-direction that Podemos and the EH Collectors have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u96	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-one. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u97	Good afternoon. Five point in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the Law made by the Parliamentary Group, concerning the Customs prescribed by the State of Spain. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The high ground, which represents the EH Group, is the Lady's word to defend and present the proposition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u98	Yes, good afternoon to all. When we entered this proposal, we had a purpose, and our goal was to make sure that the activity of the Basque parliament and of the New Year is set up every day and every day by the Spanish State. At first that was our starting point. And therefore, in our proposition, because they were very significant, we mentioned four laws, all received in the legislature that has passed. But since we entered this proposal, more things have happened. And we've seen more appeal decisions. And what we've been thinking about is that, because the person you've entered had a lot of today, things happen just at the moment, almost every minute, as I've said. Then we entered our proposal, and saw the decision of the Supreme Tribunal, about 35 hours, and also the verdict on the law of failure. And we came to a conclusion after we had seen and examined judgments and appeals: that the judges, for us, are contrary to the rights, are admitted by the Sentences to the Acquisitions introduced, and quits the rights. And in this parliament, and when you're happy to hear, some things were always thrown back. And these are our judgments against the right of deciding. What is happening is not an exception, and we are, as it were, to make a little abstract, what we see: recursos a la order del días, resoluciones judciales a la carta. And more and more. These examples make it clear to us, at the present time, the model of the Basque People over the State. When I say model, I mean the model model. And it is plain that the Spanish Common-wealth has all the power at present to do any thing, when they do not like those things which are made, or those which are done. The State can cancel, it can suppress, it can revoke, it can suspend, it can put an end to what this House decides, what the Basque Government wants to do, and nothing happens. Ez gives germatzen Ezer. What's the lock? The things that block them are our choices, it locks our right to decide. The right of this parliament is blocked. And consequently, not what this Parliament says, but all that society requires are abandoned. The decisions that this Parliament makes, with the differences that each one has, are usually taken in the sense that the citizens of this country, the Autonomous Community, live better and in the exercise of our powers and sovereignty. And the State with these actions renders them ineffective. In the proposal, we took notice of the legal frame that's currently established. And I have to explain that. That's what's happening right now. That doesn't mean we're satisfied with that. We want more things and that's why we made proposals. But what we have to think is what's happening right now. And this frame is also what we have to say is that it is not good for us. It is not because we understand that it violates basic rights, attacks our institutions and we are always at the expense of the Spanish State liking more or less what we do here. And that's not today, and to understand what I'm saying, I think we have to make a little stew, and what we have to say and see is one thing. The Government of Spain, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, as has been said recently in a judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, and the governments that have done so since the 1970s, in fact, have recognized the competences of this autonomous community by law but not, in fact, by law. 40 years of the Statute of Autonomy make it possible to state that many of the actions have been carried out to try to eliminate these competences and to make it clear to us that in certain matters where they believe they directly affect them, sovereignty is theirs. And they tell us every day. And they did and said it in a very different way. In the first place, when they do not obey their laws, they do not obey the State. They do it, though we always hear it said that it's important for them and that it has priority. But despite the constant assertion that the laws must be complied with, the State is constantly maintaining a disobedience to one of the basic political laws of the State structure, to one of the basic ones. Secondly, the Government of the Spanish State and the party that supports it have another role to play. It is dedicated to reducing and eliminating the actions and decisions of this Parliament, and it does so by preventing the normal development of those decisions, and it does so by submitting those decisions to a Constitutional Court that constantly lowers them. And, thirdly, it is dedicated to setting state rules that invade the competences of the Basque Autonomous Community, and thus obliges the Basque Government and the institutions of the Autonomous Community to introduce a lot of procedures calling for those competences. These are political decisions, these are not decisions based on legality. And they are political decisions that lead to a violation of the law. And they lead to a violation of the law also in its compulsory development, and allow the invasion of competences. And they have been accompanied by another action from my point of view totally incompatible with the rule of law that the Spanish State says it is. And this has a direct connection with other things which are made, viz. with those things which are connected with the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Court is an appendix to the decisions of the State and what should be an act carried out with institutional loyalty and in interpretation and with respect for the law is derived from a series of constant decisions of that court aimed only at ratifying what the Government of the Spanish State tells them. This is done through a system of designation of that court, and the attribution of a number of powers that go beyond that court and the courts of those characteristics. And this means a failure of the democratic state that says Spain is, a failure in the separation of powers, a failure of democracy, and the reading of that failure will not be done by me, because I think it is quite clear. And the first consequence of this is the destruction of the division of powers. In practice, the Constitutional Court has become a court that acts in the interests of the Government. And the second is the elimination of any channel that makes it possible for what is decided there to change. Eta horrek dauka beste ondorio bat: the judicialization of political issues. It's time for the honetan gertatzen ari dena moment. That's the moment Honetan Ikusten duguna. And therefore this proposition was proposed. We were clear that this wasn't fair, and we had to change that. And we were clear to know that what it was worth is the clear position of this Chamber, as wide as possible, to say that the Basta ya! that we must defend ourselves against the ability to carry forward, when our decisions are made, and that is a direct connexion with this proposition. And it's a good thing we've come to an agreement. We have agreed, in respect of what we all think, to five points, and on these five points, there are all sorts of things. In those days, what we surrender is self-generacy, which we accuse is what the Spanish Common-wealth does, we accuse insurgentness, and what we plan is that the Eucommena are to continue its activities when we see that the Eukogok is to plan the means when we see the competition is broken. And what we plan at the last point is that we must change the nomination of the Constitutional Tribunal. I see that, and there was one thing that was proposed to come to an agreement. For me at this moment, seeing how the structure of the state is, it is very difficult to understand and explain. Why? We have a lot of examples. Konstitutional Court Horretan pertsona desberdinak joan dira, toki deberdinetakoak, eta hor, nahiz eta toki deberdinetakoak egon, there has always been one very important thing that has had clear, all the people and all the magistrates who have gone there. If not, we must look at nothing more than what has happened in Catalonia with the resolutions, which in these matters unanimity was basic, because unanimity defends the position of the State, defends the sovereignty of the State, and attacks everything else. Then, who it is, how it is designated or the representation there is, for it may not have much transcendence. If not, ask Adela Asúa, who has been tired of making private votes in that court and who has failed in most cases to listen to her. Or some other people who have been in that court, who have had the same consequence as Adela Asua. But even so, for the sake of consensus and for the sake of finding a solution and for the sake of the goodwill that we can think that someone has to change things, and while we are in this legal framework, until we go to another, we do accept the fifth point and we have introduced it in the amendment that we have agreed. The Basque People assembled for a moment to be clear, they made their proposal from the very frame in which it stands. Therefore the transaction says what it says, but let us make it clear that we do not want to follow and preserve the conditions which are in this frame. It's what we're planning, from this frame, from the point of view of this frame, to another place. And in that place, we have the power to make our decisions. Horrek zer esan nahi du? Ba beste batzuk esaten duten moduan, Euskal Herria Bildu also does not give up anything. He goes from here to another place, which is where he understands that they will be respected and they will be able to exercise all rights. But this is important to us right now. I want to end by thanking everyone that this vast deal was possible, and at the same time I know that the Populous Party can't accept this, but there are some things that are at least thought up. And I ask them not to sign, but to think. And if they think he'll change his position. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u99	Thank you, signor. Passing the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u100	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Congressman. The truth is, we are very happy that today we have been able to agree on something as important as the defence of Basque self-government, of our self-government, each with its own nuances. Because in Elkarrekin We can believe in it and we are willing, as I believe we have demonstrated since we came to this House, to improve it and make it a tool to improve people's lives. That Basque citizenship with its participation and contributions, no study or survey casts doubt on the pride that Basque citizens feel for our sovereignty and for our self-government. As the compromise amendment we have agreed says, this Parliament demands the defence of self-government as the right, capacity and will that Basque citizenship historically has and manifests so that decisions affecting its life are never taken without its will, and as a guarantee of the protection of the well-being and progress of the citizenship it represents. That is to say, by exercising the capacity to decide what is our responsibility, as is already done in this Parliament and in the rest of the Basque institutions. A vast majority of this legislature has concluded, because it is obvious that the Popular Party will never be in such an agreement, as our law and of course are responsible for the introduction of resources against our self-interest. They have all the answers to striking against the independence of this chamber. He said that today we agree, of course, with the vast majority of this House, because it is obvious that the People's Party is neither in nor expected to be in this agreement, as it is responsible for the resources involved, for many of the resources involved against our laws and, therefore, for the self-government and, therefore, for the sovereignty of this House, which represents the popular will of Basques and Basques. Something that, if you want me to tell the truth, to Elkarrekin We can not surprise you, since the People's Party in this has not moved a single apex in many years. Its centralist conception of the State is comparable to its historical rejection by a political articulation of plurinationality, unable to emerge from a homogenizing and short-sighted notion of State. With greater or lesser intensity, depending on the situation and its electoral interests, he has exercised the censorship of the Basque self-government and also of others, resorting to the Constitutional Court on a recurring basis, a Constitutional Court which has not in recent years exercised the role of arbiter conferred on him by the Constitution, but has come to act as a third chamber in the service of the interests of the People's Party. I am not going to explain here how it fits, nor to discover anything new if I am talking about a particularly partial, extremely partial and politicized appointment system, a system in which, by the way, other parties that are here today have also participated. The manifest inability to end the politicization of justice and the judicialization of politics is a good sign of the failure to consolidate a modern democracy, based on the real separation of powers. It is not a surprise for us to-day that we call the rescreating tension; perhaps it is the question to ask ourselves for certain aspects. Sometimes the budgets and the organic laws contract the popular party, but today they are full of indiscretion with resources. He said that we are not surprised, therefore, by what is now called the re-centralizing tension; perhaps it should be a question that other parties in this House should ask. I am referring to those who agree on budgets and other organic laws, now and in the past, with this same People's Party, but who take their hands to their heads and appear indignant, indignant, to this day. I don't think that in this, at least in this, the People's Party is doing something that it didn't want or that it didn't do in the past, but some have not bothered to agree with this PP, neither before nor now. It is the same party and they are the same ideas, with the same ideas or even worse, because now that the younger brothers of the PP seem to have stepped hard and are getting on their beards, it seems that it is up to them to compete for the league, in the league for the homeland, it will not be that, in addition to isolated cases of corruption, they will win you for not defending the unity of Spain enough. So we can find an extra dose of recentralization and, in fact, we have already heard these days from the Congress that is already good for Catalan, that is already good for Basque, that is already good for Economic Concert, self-government and things that are nothing liberal and nothing good. And yet, there are still those who stood up to us, who stood up to us not wanting a government with those traveling companions. Some comrades who wanted to look for us and who, by the way, have also been accompanying budget support in Madrid. Our political project is well known. We are talking here today about the self-government of all, without distinction, of all the people living in Euskadi; a self-government that we are not going to accept to be called into question; a self-government that serves to make of electoralism those who do not understand or want to understand it. As I have said, our political project is fully known. We're talking about the self-generacy of all the people who live in Eukadin today. And we will not allow ourselves to doubt our self-interest, and still less will we allow some who do not understand and do not want to understand it. We bet through dialogue to resolve conflicts of competence, to strengthen their armor through the reform of the current Statute, through mechanisms that ensure bilaterality on the basis of mutual respect. We may have many differences on the model of country we want, on the policies to be developed, but today we want to make clear our commitment here to defend the rights of Basque citizens, a commitment that we will bring to the debate forums, where this debate is relevant, without any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u101	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u102	Thank you, President. Well, we, the Basque Socialists, welcome the fact that this debate serves, above and beyond the result of the vote, to ascertain the validity of the great agreement reached by Basque citizens 39 years ago and the demand of their institutions. And we celebrated it after having had to suffer for so many years the attempt to discredit what was being done here, the attempt to tear down what was being built, the attempt to destroy even physically those who occupied these seats by doing so. It seems to us that this debate is a great opportunity to demand the capacity to decide on many things, especially on the social model that the Basques and Basques have wanted throughout history, our ability to lead an Osakidetza that guarantees the right to health from the public; to build a public school that guarantees the right to education; to make possible a police of our own that guarantees our security; to design a unique protection system in our environment that guarantees minimum income; to seek the formulas that today make it possible to guarantee access to housing; to promote public policies that make it possible for the Basques to recover and be spoken today by more people than ever... All this is what this Parliament has been doing. All this and more, thanks to this Statute and to a vocation of those who have always participated in the institutions to build a country in which we all fit. A model that, although not recognized by some, has provided us with the greatest stage of progress and well-being that has ever been known in Euskadi. But a model – which is also true and fair to recognize – has had failures, had limitations and had attempts to be nullified or restricted by those who are unable to manage a plural and decentralized Spain. Because this is what we're talking about today. And this does not happen to us only in Euskadi; this is not a form of punishment to the Basques, as some want to say. It is something that, unfortunately, the rest of the communities are also suffering. The first thing to be said, to be clear, is that recourse to the Constitutional Court is legitimate, even if it is not, in our view, the right way. It is the provision made by the Constitution itself and assumed by this Statute itself to be able to settle differences of interpretation on the scope of our competences, as the proposing group points out, at the impulse of the central Government, when it has understood that it should defend its own and also of the Basque Government, when it appreciated the invasion of its own competences. But this mechanism is failed, it is provided for by the Constitution, but practice is proving that it is not a guarantee model neither in the way in which competences are distributed nor in the way in which differences of interpretation are managed. This is what the Socialists have been pointing out since five years ago, in what was called the Granada Declaration, we defined the correctness and shortcomings of our territorial system and concluded that what is appropriate, we continue to say, is a constitutional reform that resolves precisely, among others, the problem that we are now discussing here. What we say, what we said and continue to say is that it would be much more convenient in a state with a vocation of decentralisation as accentuated as ours is, that the Constitution clearly defined, not exclusive competences, as it currently does, that it mixes issues of legislation with those of execution or delegated ones, but a precise and short list of competences that are indelible in the hands of the Government of Spain, and the rest, all those that the communities can assume, if that is their will. Clarification of powers, therefore, accompanied by guarantees, equal rights and solidarity between territories. And with the added guarantee of mechanisms of federal loyalty, mechanisms that resolve conflicts of relations that arise naturally between institutions and that will always continue to exist. The lack of clarity in this area has often forced the Constitutional Court to resort repeatedly and abusively. That there are differences must be assumed as something proper to democratic systems. The fact that the Constitutional Court was being forced to do some sort of reinterpretation of the Constitution, without taking into account the will to organize itself from the various autonomous parliaments, was somewhat more dangerous. And what we do not understand is the closure of so many in having delayed and now in slowing down the revision of our territorial system. If we detect, as it seems clear, this increase in litigation and if we agree that it is an impediment to the projection of our public policies, the socialists do not understand that today so many sticks are put on the wheels of the shared and decentralized project that is Spain. But one thing is the possibility of going to the Constitutional Court, which, I insist, has it the Government of Spain and the autonomous governments, and another very different use this body to try to laminate the state of all the Spaniards that we decided to build four decades ago, which is what the People's Party is doing, in our view. And it does so for a reason, unfortunately, for the immense inability of the country that governs, a plural, very plural country that intends to lead with a single vision, the particular one, that of a party that, by the way, was neither in the gestation of the model, nor in its development, and which is only worth the autonomy if they have the power in them. It is a paralysing and restrictive vision of social rights and territorial development. It is the one that keeps the project of Spain captive and endangers. Not knowing how to understand Catalonia, nor what was happening there; not knowing how to understand Euskadi and what here has cost us to build consensus between different; it is the best food that the parties have found that have always defended the theses of the independenceists. Because it's not understandable what they're doing. To cite a recent example, it is not understandable, no one can understand it, that there is a question of a collective bargaining agreement, in this case that of the labor organization of the public employees of Euskadi and that at the same time, without solution of continuity, propose these 35-hour days that question for the whole of the public employees of Spain. It is not understandable that his own training in Euskadi shares a draft of additional environmental measures to prevent fracking and that, on the other hand, he seeks to narrow them down through the courts. It is not understandable that he should try to put a stop to giving a solution to people who cannot afford a roof under which to live. Nor was that effort to prevent a quick response offered by the Patxi López government to prevent tens of thousands of retirees from having to pay for the medicines prescribed by their doctors, because it was the executive who, throughout 2012, had to begin to suffer the re-centralizing involution that fed on an absolute majority of Rajoy who never knew how to use for anything other than laminating rights. What Rajoy didn't know at the time and, unfortunately, I don't think he knows it yet, is that here we are determined to express all the possibilities offered by our Statute so as not to neglect people. And that, despite the resources I have just mentioned as an example, but there is more, even if it was with a greater effort and later than expected, today in Euskadi there are more than 100,000 people who do not have to think about stopping medication for lack of resources, that 2,000 families have accessed a home they did not have, that they were looking for formulas for a new one in agreement with the workers' representatives, in order to also maintain the labor decisions agreed in the public sector. We don't even know what the PP has on the country anymore, beyond the reviewable life sentence. The socialist yes, I can tell you: the Constitution and the Statute are, above all, pacts of coexistence designed for progress in plural societies like ours. And managing plurality is something that this Government does not know, with few facets, in the short term, that they are going to correct that attitude, we understand very harmful to everyone. A government specialized in saying, it is true that forcefully, what people cannot do, what other governments cannot do, but unable to propose a single alternative to all those who, for many reasons, do not trust the People's Party. So this debate serves to ratify us in our commitment to explore all the possibilities offered by the Statute, the best tool we have had for the greatest era of progress and social cohesion. To extend the rights and well-being of citizens. It also serves to emphasize the need to update this tool and the constitutional one, with that same vocation, recognizing the different sensitivities and integrating them into a project that shares responsibilities and guarantees equality and solidarity. And the Socialists find that there is a broad will in this House to embark on a renewed path of our self-government and we trust, by the way, that it does not hold back. And we take the opportunity to once again invite those who share with us to come to the Constitutional to reinterpret our positions permanently is not the right solution, to add to the reflections opened in Congress, to review our system, to make their contributions and to make them part of the agreements. Basque socialism, as we have said on every occasion that has been presented, in coalition governments, alone or from the opposition, will go hand in hand with the rest of the Basque representation, to defend our unique model and the vocation of citizenship to continue sharing a project of progress, plural and solidarity, which seeks above all to ensure health, education, social protection, housing, gender equality or a healthy environment. A project that will continue to serve us in the future to clean up inequalities, and offer opportunities. That is what has helped us to find a common place, which is the compromise amendment that we are presenting today, and which I am pleased that we have been able to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u104	Yes, ma'am, thank you, Mr President, Chief of Staff, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, all good evenings. We have an interesting discussion on the table today, with its contents and its groups of proposals. In point of fact, it is the intention of the proposition to plan a defense of our self-generacy, and to accuse the retrocuous assaults which the central power of state constantly attacks without interruption. To the repeated violation of the Statute of Gernika, almost 40 years after its adoption, denounced on many occasions by this House, azkenezkoz orin de la hiru hilabete eskas, is added in recent years a clearly re-centralizing attitude on the part of the Spanish Government, to which we must also confront and publicly denounce. In other words, in addition to demanding full compliance, the current Statute also requires respect. And all this without counting on the new threat posed by Citizens and their electoral strategy in this regard. Firstly, we must congratulate ourselves on the initiative, which was presented, I do not know whether by chance – Mrs Goirizelaia is not listening to me – or not, on 25 October, on the day of the adoption of the Statute. Also for its topicality and for the proposing group, which we understand has a great political significance, ongi etorria marko juridiko honetara. And we have reached a compromise amendment by the proposing group, Socialists, Nationalists and Elkarrekin Podemos, whom I would like to thank for their willingness to reach this agreement. Just over a year ago, he said the Sailburu of Public Governance and Self-Government – important for this department's name – Mr Erkoreka, in his appearance for the presentation of the general lines of action, which had to be put on the wall and react to the serious erosion that the combined action of the central government and the Constitutional Court is causing in our self-government. All the signatory groups today, in the light of what their spokesmen have said, share the concern about the seriousness of the unjustified attacks that our self-government has been facing in recent years, and we therefore believe that it is first and foremost necessary to assert and defend it firmly. Hence, the first paragraph of the proposal that we have had sex in which we stress the importance as a guarantee of the protection of well-being and of the progress of the citizenship to which it represents. And this re-centralizing attitude of the Spanish Government, which seriously affects our self-government, materializes in two main ways. Firstly, and that is where Bildu's initial proposal, by Euskal Herria Bildu, went, through the systematic intervention by the Spanish Government of remedies and conflicts of jurisdiction, especially before the Constitutional Court, against the decisions taken by the Basque institutions. By so many means and the last means and jurisdiction presented to the tribunal of the Constitution, this tribunal of the Constitution supplies and protects the means of centralizing the State anew. It seems to us that the policy of systematic resources of the PP government – of the People's Party – is not only due to technical-legal reasons, but in fact seeks to limit our self-government by taking advantage of the pretext of the economic crisis, and this must be denounced and today we denounce it again. The last examples of this re-centralizing strategy of the Spanish Government through resources, we have them in the Supreme Court ruling that annuls the 35-hour weekday in the Basque public service, violating our capacity for self-organisation of the public service, explicit competence of paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 10 of the Statute of Gernika. And also, recently, in the annulment of part of the law of additional environmental protection measures for the extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons and hydraulic fracture. We believe that the judicialization of politics is being enhanced in an interested manner. The Spanish Government has tried to obstruct the legislative actions of Parliament and the decisions of the Basque Government by means of legal remedies. Politics refuse to go to justice, refusing to comply with the institutions of euskal, and with those which are represented by the institutions of the Basques. There is a political rather than a legal will to carry out these resources. Since 2011 we have been living a political strategy of blocking the Spanish Government towards the Basque institutions. The filing of appeals, one after the other, against the laws and decisions adopted in Euskadi has been the dynamic followed by the People's Government, creating a situation of blockade. We do not want to deceive ourselves and ignore reality, and we are aware that in the real world in which we live, Mr Martínez, and in politics too, there can be discrepancies, differences and conflicts between institutions, and that these can end or be resolved before a court that imparts justice. Therefore, the problem is not the very existence of conflicts, nor the existence of courts to resolve these conflicts, the fundamental problem is that these conflicts are not managed or resolved with loyalty and objectivity. And this is not a quantitative problem, but a qualitative one. In these constitutional remedies and conflicts to which we refer, the Spanish State and the Basque institutions lack the same procedural mechanisms that guarantee the procedural principle of equality of means between the two parties in dispute, so that it is the Spanish State that is systematically in a privileged position, for two reasons of a political nature that in our view constitute an abuse. We regard systematic use as abuse when recourse is made by the State to the privilege of automatic suspension of the effectiveness of Basque administrative rules and acts, which is not the contrary, because State laws are not subject to any precautionary justice, and this is voluntary. So we start from a situation of difference. For when the State sets up a remedy, they immediately stop or interrupt the autonomical rule by which it is resurrected. But when it's the other way around, that's not what happens. In order that there may be a legal security, they should be treated the same. And second, on the other hand, we criticise the abuse that we believe is also, and has been referred to, the appellate design of the Constitutional Court, through a composition that does not respect plurality and is ideologically and territorially unbalanced, which gives the result known by all and all of a blatantly inclined jurisprudence to sustain the state's theses. There is nothing more to reread than the appearance of Adela Asúa, to whom they referred earlier, in the self-government presentation a year and a half ago to highlight these claims. Considering that the Constitutional Court is currently a court on the part of a partial court, and as long as the existing legal framework is not changed, in order to try to regain the idea that justice is or should be independent, the system of election of its members should be modified so that it is more equitable at the political level and that it can be presented as a genuinely impartial arbitrator in conflicts between territorial authorities. This is why it is proposed to demand the Spanish Government to articulate contrivances to enable the plural constitution of the Constitution of the United States to compensate both in ideologically and in respect of land. Therefore, the issue does not lie so much in the inadequacy of the mere existence of disputes by system, because the dispute and the legal-political debate can be admissible within margins in a political system with a territorial distribution of political power. Inadequately, we understand that it is the configuration of jurisdictional power called acting as an arbitrator, and also the procedural rules with which the parties must be led to the dispute. On both issues, the Spanish system is unbalanced and unfair. We therefore urge the Spanish Government, in addition to denouncing this interference with the powers legally conferred on this House, to try to exhaust the path of the agreement by means of bilaterally based mechanisms to resolve the possible differences that may exist in competition matters which, logically, may exist, and to respect the decisions that, in the exercise of the functions legally conferred on them, this Parliament and the Basque Government adopt on a basic democratic principle. And the Basque Government is urged to comply with the provisions of the government programme for the present legislature in this area, and to continue to defend the laws and decisions adopted in Basque, and to continue to demand an effective bilateral relationship between the State and political agreements, and not to use a third party – the Constitutional Court – to improve political situations. And the second form of attack on our self-government is through the promulgation of numerous State legislative initiatives, mainly basic legislation and decrees, which have affected and negatively affect the Basque self-government, by cutting, reorienting and limiting the competences and capacities recognized by the Statute of Gernika. The misuse of this type of basic State legislation is one of the real problems that have de facto undermined self-government in recent years in the areas of public service, health, education, active employment policies, the environment, the right to housing, etc., etc., etc. And we want to denounce and urge the Spanish Government to give up promoting this type of legislative action that erodes the institutional and competitive facet of our self-government. And before the end, a reference to Mr Martínez relating to the negotiation, to those who agree with the People's Party, to which he has not bothered to agree with the PP. Well, the form of political negotiation... we don't know what its forms of political negotiation are. But we do have some example, such as the one that allowed the Madrid Government to be part of the People's Party. That's one way to negotiate. Our way of negotiating is different. I can assure you that the criterion that always governs the political businessmen of the PNV is the defence of the unique and exclusively interests of Basque citizens. And this way of acting seems that, election after election, is recognized and endorsed by Basque society. I'm done, Madam President. We are, in short, facing a serious and worrying scenario for our self-government. The abuse of basic legislation by the State, the systematic remedies brought against our laws and decisions. And the rulings of the Constitutional Court, which incorporates new interpretations and doctrines that are very harmful to our competition framework, make it necessary to assert and defend our self-government firmly and to avoid and, if necessary, denounce the actions of the State that involve interference, conditioning or a reduction of the legal norms and public policies that the Basque Parliament or Government have approved in the exercise of its powers. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u105	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, Mr. Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to come up to the rostrum today and to recognize, for this is what all the groups that we are or live in, all the Basques, like the rest of the Spaniards, have recognized in a social, democratic and legal state that has allowed us all citizens to give us a legal order. Give it to us, give it to ourselves. No one has imposed this on us at all, who allows us to maintain, who is founded on it, and who allows us to maintain and develop institutions that govern the lives of all citizens. A framework, a frankly complex legal order and especially in Euskadi. Because our administrative activity and our institutions are particularly complex or especially numerous in the competition division, not as much as in other areas of Spain. This democratic state is full of guarantees. So many guarantees that it has allowed all the spokespersons who have come to the rostrum to talk about this matter to criticize the state we have. If it were not a democratic state, if it were not a state full of guarantees, one could not go up to this rostrum to criticize how the Constitutional Court works, to say that its members are partial and that its decisions are harmful, as has been heard a few minutes ago from this rostrum. We live in democracy. Welcome to the club. Our structure is complicated and the division of competences is very difficult, and precisely to prevent institutions, whether some administrations are legislative – national, the Congress of Deputies, the Senate, the autonomic legislatures, our general boards or our councils in the exercise of their powers – or the executives – the Spanish government, the different autonomic governments, or the different outside governments – from interfering with one another's competences, we have a system that is that of the Constitutional Court, which can be used to resolve the differences that exist. If we take the initiatives that you have presented to us today and turn it around, where it puts the Government of Spain we put the Basque Government, and where it puts the Basque Government we put the Government of Spain, we are turning the tortilla. Their arguments would be absolutely the same, but the result would be completely different. Why? Because you have not only come to criticize our system, our legal system and the system we have to resolve conflicts. You have come here to criticize the People's Party government, which is the Spanish government at the moment. Of course, when the Spanish Government decides to take a measure that affects the working hours or working conditions of Basque public workers, it is interfering with our legitimate rights and our self-government. Sorry, only if it's about working time, then it does interfere and erode our self-government. On the other hand, if the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party decide to reduce the salary of Basque public workers by 5%, our competences will not be eroded, our self-government will never be interfered with. It depends on the crystal with which you look at a similar fact, similar, that in law we all know that never two facts are exactly the same. Here we have all, except ourselves, come to criticize the People's Party government, which is really the true guarantor of Basque self-government. And I'm going to explain myself. Really, the objective, what gives us uniqueness in relation to other territories, is the Economic Concert and is the Cup. When did the Economic Concert and the Basque Cup stand on the table? In the year 81, by a UCD government, I believe that none of the members of UCD were from Bildu or Podemos, some of them from the Socialist Party and, of course, not from the Basque Nationalist Party, the majority went to the People's Group. When did that regulation of the Concert become indefinite? With a People's Party government. When, at last, has the situation that gives us the basis for our true singularities and peculiarities been unlocked? When the Basque Government and the Madrid Government have sat down, talked about, negotiated, unblocked and without the People's Party government, and you, Mr Lehendakari, know perfectly well, the initiatives that have made it possible to renew these conditions of the Economic Concert and our Cup could not have been carried out. It is thanks to the People's Party, which is the true guarantor of Basque self-government. Because attacks on our self-government do not come from outside, they can come from within, which is different, when they are taken here, decisions are made in this House that may be outside the framework of legality. If this House decides to adopt a housing law in terms that are absolutely similar to that adopted in the Andalusian Parliament and that the Constitutional Court has said that it is not within our legal system, and we have decided to approve it, logically, we know that the Constitutional Court will arrive and will return to us, exactly, to say that we are acting outside the law. What happens is that if you do it in an autonomous community it seems to be right, if you do it in another, according to you, it shouldn't be so good. That is why we, despite the fact that none of the spokesmen of the groups that have spoken and signed the agreement have called us, except for Mrs Goirizelaia, who has taught me the agreement when I was going to the seat to start the speeches, are not going to approve the agreement that you have. Why? You know that perfectly well, because we are consistent, and we do maintain a very clear political and legal position in all these matters. That is why we are not going to support the initiative that the rest of the groups have wanted to take forward. Especially for the fifth point, which is the least important, but it seems to me to be a legal dislate. The Constitutional Court, according to the Constitution, has 12 members, which I know of. Four appoints them to the Congress of Deputies, four appoints them to the Senate. I'm sorry, the King appoints them, I think, I'm not sure; but four are proposed by the Congress of Deputies, four are proposed by the Senate, two are proposed by the Government of Spain and two are proposed by the General Council of the Judiciary. All the other groups in this House are only concerned with the two proposed by the Government, because here the Government is urged to articulate sufficient mechanisms to ensure that these two members, not the other 10, are plural and have territorial representation. I believe that all the groups we are here have representation both in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, and you are telling us that there is not enough plurality in the Congress of Deputies. Mr Erkoreka, who looks at me and smiles, knows perfectly well that plurality exists there and more at this moment when there are no absolute majorities, and here comes the whole political diatribe. The Senate is a territorial chamber, it is the chamber of territorial representation. I therefore understand that the appointments you make do respect territoriality. Therefore, since it seems to me to be a real delay to require the Government of Spain to change its nine-year appointment system in the Constitutional Court, we are not going to support any of the points in this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, the High Court, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u108	Yes, thank you. Mr Pastor, the truth of your speech is that I have drawn a conclusion, which I am very pleased about. In the whole first part of your speech you have explained to us that this Parliament and these institutions have made it possible for us to decide on the Basque police, to decide on Osakidetza, to decide on Education, to decide, to decide, to decide. And I say, well, let's see if it will turn out now that Mr. Pastor agrees more with us than he believes. And well, I invite you, therefore, that with these reflections that you have made, which is precisely a part of what I have also explained in my speech, you continue to reflect on what more things we have to decide and the same we come to a common point and in agreement on which we decide above all, also on the model of relationship with the State. It's not that hard. It's just a little exercise in those terms. Mr. Zorrilla, you haven't said it, but I've seen you overjoyed and when you started saying, "I'm so glad because this initiative comes from where it comes from..." and then I said, "It's not going to tell me what everyone who's there is thinking and wants to tell me, that I hear a lot of welcome to the club, to the club we support and that, that I already know that's what most of you were thinking." Well, look, this isn't a club, and if it's a club, we're already in, and then, look, I'm gonna tell you two things about the club. One, which earns a lot, is nothing more to see than our parliamentary group. And two, that the entrance is going to have to do with two things, in case you think you have the key for us to go in or out of somewhere. With which we will monitor and make proposals to move forward, to leave this club and go to another different one, that it has all the competences and that it allows us to decide above all. And with a second thing. The lehendakari, first, after the adoption of the Statute, unless my memory fails and is wrong, was Carlos Garaikoetxea, who is now there, in Bildu. No, I'm just telling you as a dice. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, look, there are two things. Today is the second time you've been alone, the second time. Yes, in the morning they were left alone in what had to do with the historical memory law. And now you're going to stay alone on this issue that has to do with the defense, yes, because it's going to be nine and the rest, and nine and the rest. I don't know. I'd look at it a little. And look...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u109	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u110	Here when you talk about judicial decisions and when you talk about criticism of the People's Party government, then, indeed. It is that we criticize the People's Party government in what it seems to us to be critical and in the issues it does against our rights. And that's what we're proposing. And that's legitimate, criticizing and saying what we think. But, look, you have said on one issue, something that is also said in our compromise amendment and that you are giving us the reason. You said, speaking of the Economic Concert and speaking of the Cup, that things have been unlocked by talking. That is what we say in the amendment, that we must try to unlock the issues by talking, not by means of appeals to the Constitutional Court. Look, you too agree with us, with whom we are proposing the amendment, rather than what we think. Because if that were so, surely things would be different, and that's what virtually everyone and everyone is proposing as a method of resolution in what we're going to do next. And, look, the rulings of the Spanish courts are many and very different, and very different. But, look, before yesterday, a resolution came out of the Strasbourg Court, which laid down a resolution by the Supreme Court and the Spanish Constitutional Court, saying that fundamental rights have been violated in this country for a very short time and fundamental rights have been violated. And there had been a court ruling that said the opposite. But that also happens and continues to happen. And that's a very short time ago, with a conviction. And I'm gonna end up saying one thing that I think I have to say, because, as some people usually say, the body asks for it. And since irony is sometimes not very well understood, then, the truth is, I want it to be understood that it is irony, but I want to thank Mr Erkoreka, because I asked him to send me information on all the resources and all the issues that had to do with it, in relation to what we were talking about today, and Mr Erkoreka, very diligently, explained something to me that I in almost 30 years of professional practice would never have been able to understand, that for that I had to go to the Constitutional Court and get on the website. I am very grateful, because without that very great contribution, we would certainly not have been able to make this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u111	Thank you, signor. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u112	Mr. Zorrilla. You were talking about our forms of negotiation and, well, that mantra that is usually used, not so much you, but more the Socialist Party, when talking about the path that led to a People's Party government. Look, you said that one of the great problems now, of the great dangers that the Basque self-government might have, was Citizens. You said that at the beginning of your speech and I also agree with you, we agree. Well, look, after the December 20 elections, to make Pedro Sánchez president, in the package was Citizens. In that package was Citizens. And thanks to us, thanks to our vote against, Citizens do not at this time have the power that some were willing to give them in the government of the State, because we had already warned and we were already seeing the re-centralizing and uniform will of a model of State that has that party that, unfortunately, more and more shows it and also seems that for a long time. But, well, I don't have much of a pretension to confront you today either, because I believe that in general – and here I refer to the four political formations that we have reached the agreement – the agreement that we have reached is good. We believe that it is good and that it is also necessary. It was perhaps necessary that on a day like today we had the opportunity to strengthen and defend from this House precisely the capacity to decide on our affairs, the capacity to decide on our laws, which gives us self-government and defend the rights we have as Basques to define these issues. Not only that, but also, and it has already been mentioned here, such an agreement allows us gradually to move forward in bringing positions closer, in bringing positions closer to the updating of our self-government. Because what we have achieved today is a broad agreement, something that we have been defending for a long time since Elkarrekin. It is a broad agreement that serves today to defend our self-government, but a broad agreement that in the future can serve to update it, that in the future can serve to search for the best tools and to develop the best tools we have, to shield our competences, to shield our social rights and to find the best way to build a better Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u113	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u114	Well I believe that in this turn it is appropriate to highlight something that in principle could seem very difficult, which is to coincide in a joint position of defending self-government to very different parties, from those who claim independence to those who claim constitutional legality. And the great novelty is that EH Bildu comes to value the Basque self-government he has unselfishly attacked for decades in this country. That's the big news. And it seems to me that it is good news that you must now acknowledge the value of Gernika's Statute of Autonomy of which you have said barbarities. I believe that it is an element worthy of mention and worth appreciating on the part of all. The important thing is that we have agreed on one aspect, which is the defence of self-government and the criticism of the actions that the Spanish Government does using the Constitutional Court, which we do not rate as bad or good because it is Spanish, as you do, no, it has nothing to do with this. This is not a territorial problem, it is an ideological problem. Who has a certain conception of Spain and who has another. Who has an open conception of a plural and diverse reality that is that which makes up the whole Spanish State and who does not have it. Because, as I said in my speech, this is not a dynamic attack on the Basques for being Basque and carrying txapela. No, no, it has nothing to do with that. The centralizing impulse of the PP government covers the whole of the Spanish territory: Basques, Catalans, Galicians, Valencians and Andalusians. Therefore, it is not a territorial issue. Do not want me to sell you the story that you treat us badly because we are Basques, and the others well because you are from another region. No, it has nothing to do with that. It's an ideological issue, I repeat it to you again. Non-territorial, having a conception of the country in one way or having it in another. And the Constitutional Court is not bad per se, it is an institutional mechanism that we respect. What's going on? That it has been manipulated and forgotten, that it represents properly – and that is reflected in the compromise amendment – the appropriate ideological and territorial representation that this country has. As you have rightly said, Adela Asúa – proposed, by the way, by this political group and proposed by the Basque Parliament and approved by the Senate – is tired, as you well say, of presenting a particular vote after a particular vote because it did not coincide with the conservative part of the court's interpretation of certain aspects. She too, like the rest of the members of the court, but with another different conception. Therefore, it is not a problem of identities, it is a problem of political ideology, which is what really has to weigh on this issue. And now we have reached an agreement, a common territory of self-government defense and criticism of what we and you also understand to be an abusive use and a neo-centralizing vocation of how to understand this country and the application of laws. But that is not just what we say to the lords of the People's Party from a trench that we have shared in other respects on many occasions. We don't think you're doing things right. Why? Because that way of understanding the country and that way of using the country's institutions is a separatist manufacturing machine in this country. And that's what we see in Catalonia and we can see it – I hope it won't get any more – in Euskadi too. For in things one must act and see them with intelligence, with a sense of history, and with a political sense and generosity in interpreting the laws. And laws do not have only one vision, the restrictive; laws have the capacity to be interpreted, regardless of whether they can be changed later. And if you don't open that path, that generous interpretation, and that's what constitutional reform is for... And in this case I turn again to the PNV and also to Podemos, so that they take advantage of the doors opened by the constitutional reform and introduce the necessary reforms to make this country more balanced and more just from the ideological territorial point of view. We will be very satisfied with a speech that attends to feelings, but has little practical effect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u116	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, Mrs Goirizelaia, I have welcomed you, yes I have welcomed you to the current legal framework, as you have said that starting from this legal framework you want to come to another scenario. And that framework is the one that, despite all the re-centralizing attacks that we are, let's say, denouncing today, and other types of attacks, has come to this day, and on the basis of which we can move forward. We've been on it for 40 years and we'll be glad to see you get on this train. And don't take it as a reproach. You used to take it as a reproach for your attitude today. No, we congratulate ourselves, I have already told you, on your initiative, and other approaches that you are making lately, since the defence of self-government is not something, we understand that it is not something that is exclusively the responsibility of the government in office, but that it must be an effort in which we are actively involved all of us, also the abertzale left. And finally, don't cheat on me. Don't cheat on me Mrs. Goirizelaia, when I mean left abertzale, I mean left abertzale, I don't mean EH Bildu. I know it'll be the same for you, but not for me. That's the first trap. And the second trap that makes me is the reference to the lehendakari Carlos Garaikoetxea that today will be in EH Bildu, but when he was lehendakari he already knows which party he was from. Regarding Podemos, well, I just don't want to argue with you, but he said, "I don't know what Citizens have thanks to you." I don't know, you'll know. But we do know, and it is certain today, that they were unable to reach an agreement to prevent that PP, that People's Party that is so evil, so demonic, from reaching the government. However, as I have said, I am pleased that a new force like you, which has been in this House for a year, is expressing this position in favour of self-government today, and we hope that this will be maintained here as well as in other State latitudes. As far as Mr Ruiz de Arbulo is concerned, well, hard paper, the truth. Man, we didn't get in touch with you because we weren't the proponents, and besides, I didn't have any full amendments to negotiate with. It speaks of the impartiality of the Constitutional Court, which here we have criticized its partiality. Man, for if he also wants to trap the solitary one he does, but it is evident that the prestige of the Constitutional Court is very deteriorated, and in recent years it is evident that he has a regressive and re-centralizing drift of his doctrine, which we not only say, but, as the dissident minority of the court itself said earlier, in those particular vows that are increasingly clear, clear and frequent, and should worry them. And also with regard to the partiality or otherwise of the Constitutional Court, I make only one statement. I believe that a member who became president of the Constitutional Court was affiliated with the People's Party, I think Mr Pérez de los Cobos. If that is impartiality, then let God come and see him. I have heard many things in this House, but Mr Ruiz de Arbulo's statement today has left me somewhat surprised. To say that the People's Government is the true guarantor of the Basque self-government, for it is to be noted Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, from my point of view. Tell your voters in Euskadi who want to access a home, tell their voters who want a non-fracking environment, tell their pensioner voters who have been affected by the pharmaceutical co-op, tell their official voters who will be affected by 35 hours a week. Ah, and taking a slight look at the rear-view mirror, I think it was last week, and today we voted on it on the first item on the agenda, and speaking of coherence, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, precisely, did not miss the opportunity to demand the Basque Government flexibility in working conditions for the minions. In what flexibility, that of 35 or 37 1⁄2 hours? If you explain it to us later... Finally, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, to clarify, that the 5% reduction in the salary of officials was voted by the Spanish and CiU Socialist Workers' Party, not by the PNV. Check your notes. And if what really, and if it's sincere, is what bothers you is the fifth paragraph of the transacted amendment, the fifth paragraph which refers to the composition of the Constitutional Court, we encourage you to ask for the point vote, which we gladly accept and vote in favour of the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mrs. Goirizelaia, for the second time in the day we are going to be alone, how sad, everyone crying. Well, look, if it's to defend our principles and our political ideal, it doesn't give us any kind of fear. The sad and sad thing would be that in order to join a majority we would go up to this Tribune to make a speech contrary to what we have always held and which we feel very proud of. You were telling us about fundamental rights violations, because you said so in a judgment of the Court of Human Rights. Whenever you want, you and I, Mrs Goirizelaia, can talk about all the human rights violations that we have had in Spain and that we have had in Euskadi for many years, say it a sentence or say it the popular feeling and heart of all those who are present in this House. And next time, please, instead of calling Mr Erkoreka, you call me – who touches the wrong doors – and ask me for reports on conflict, state, autonomous communities... during the 10th Legislature, IX, VIII, VII, and later. They are also posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, which I will immediately give and will not send to the website of the Constitutional Court. Mr Zorrilla, we need to talk to our retired voters, we need to talk to our public service voters, we need to talk to our young voters who want to buy a home. I'm going to recommend to you, something much simpler and is that you pick up the phone and talk to your president. With us the People's Party and the Government are being exquisitely respectful. Mr. Zorrilla, this morning, it's not old news, it's a headline this morning. You come up here to talk about attacks on self-government, erosion of our rights, you talk to your president, who seems not to share the same speech. I don't know if because you don't know, or because you haven't explained what your party's true position is right now. That's so you don't keep talking about re-centralizing attacks and demonic parties. I'll tell your president, consult him, and we'll see where he gets to. I am not going to ask for a point vote. I have told you that the fifth point is a legal gap; the rest, the other four, simply politically, we do not share them and as we do not share them, we will not support them. We are not going to waste time on this House, to ask for a point vote, as has been done yesterday, exactly, to go and vote the same thing, point by point, one behind the other. So we don't ask for that individualized vote. And from the Group of the European People's Party we are going to oppose the proposed GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH, collect together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-direction that has been signed by Euzbertarians. We can vote. (stop) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u120	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by Juan Luis Urania Serano, the parliamentary members of the Podemos, concerning the communal activities of the Vittoria-Gastic Islands. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mr. Uria, you have the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u121	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u122	Thank you. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u123	Bakartxo andrea, lehendakari, Iñigo, parliamentary colleagues, parliamentary colleagues, very briefly, because being at five and a half political debates in this Parliament is that there is hunger for political debate. Hunger of legislation and that prestige this Parliament. Its ability to control the Government, on the one hand, and the confidence of citizens in our Parliament, our capacity to work is impressive. And March is loaded. It is a very simple motion that I have to put here. Very briefly, because I raised the question a few weeks ago and it was a matter where the negotiation of some nurses in Álava, who had been in the School Health program for many years, negotiating with the management of the territorial health organization, got them into health centers and other alternatives, some totally in agreement and others in an inappropriate way. This situation, which has a trade union profile, more or less, gave us the opportunity to raise a matter of silence, which is the urgent need, which we will talk about throughout the legislature, to guide health systems and Osakidetza, in particular, from a community point of view. As we're going, we're not doing well. The medicalization of life, the technologicalization of diagnostic and therapeutic processes, the organization of the offer made by Osakidetza, does not cause any more indiscriminate demands to be organized. We are not doing well, it is a complex situation, not only because of the general increase in medical processes, but because we have not just had time for community activity in health centres. We don't have time for our family doctors, pediatricians and nurses to go out to the streets, to pension clubs, to schools, to immigrant clubs, to women's associations, to homes. We don't have time, because attendance creates demands that are sometimes difficult to handle. Osakidetza is a complex system of organization and, as Edgar Morin says, complex systems have to be analyzed with models of complex thinking. I'm not going to get involved, I'm not going to get involved in why people are going to consult, why people are going to emergencies, the reflection made by the director general of Osakidetza. Why do people consume drugs and antibiotics without need? Why do middle classes consume more technology in Osakidetza than the simplest, most popular classes? Why? I'm not getting involved in that. I will only claim, I will raise the importance, the urgency for our leaders to reorganise the orientation of the Basque Health System, to work in terms of health, not in terms of disease, as the Health Plan says, which is approved by all the people who are in this Parliament, until 2020, who speak in terms of health. In case we do not have clear goals, as did the leaders of the Arab OIOS, others do have clear goals for what health systems are worth. Other boards of directors have clear objectives, because they increase their rates of profit, with medical technology, with the consumption of medicines and with a clinical practice that is out of the reach of consumption. All I have to say is that I am happy to be here at this hour and that I am happy because the five political groups have reached an agreement, and I would especially like to thank Estibalitz Larrauri for his efforts to convince me. It is a pleasure to come up with general ideas on the basis of an agreement. We will already have time to argue on specific issues, public-private separation, why the private grows more than the public, we will already have time to argue on ideological aspects of how Osakidetza should be better, how Osakidetza should not leave disadvantaged groups behind, how Osakidetza cannot afford to have gaps in the care offer it makes. We need to reorient it to health policies, as the PNV-PSOE government pact says, and as well as they arise in health promotion strategies, which are the fundamental contents of the Health Plan. The Basque Health Plan does not direct OSI managers, managers of our hospitals, and managers of our health centres. It is not the Health Plan that marks, it is the business plans, it is the demand plans, and demands are not always needs. Sometimes, demands in our health centers, in our hospitals, in our emergency system are expressed needs; not always. The culture of health consumption has more to do with a need than with a symptom, with a sign. I just want to read, very briefly, the general ideas that we have agreed with great pleasure. Thank you Eva Blanco, thank you Natalia Rojo, thank you Laura Garrido. We have come to the following proposals, which are common-sense proposals, which are in the Health Plan, which are in the last document given to us by the Department of Health, Strategic Challenges of Osakidetza 2020, but which we find nowhere for health promotion, for the health plan itself and its dissemination. Local epidemiology structures and local health networks, we don't find budgets. We didn't find any budgets. And that's a mess, because you can't pose challenges to programs and strategic objectives without a budget. We have already raised this at the times we had to raise, at the time of the budgets, but good we will have time to talk slowly. What have we come to? First, the promotion of healthy lifestyles and the prevention of risky behaviors, through projects such as Mugiment, among others, from a multidisciplinary and comprehensive vision, with special attention to the child population and with the appropriate staff in each of the OSIs. The times of our professionals, the encouragement of our professionals, the work objectives in each health team have to respond to the health plan. Secondly, community health activities especially at the local level and create new channels of communication in coordination with municipalities, educational centres and other entities linked to community health initiatives. Do you know how much it is for the Gernika AMPAs, for example, the association of parents of the ikastolas, to have healthy activities and to make healthy paths for the children and for the children to go to the ikastola? 30 euros. The public health subsidy on local networks, which is gold chocolate, has fallen by 17%! If it's worth much less than five nuclear magnetic resonances and two linear accelerators! I am not saying that you buy it from us, I am saying that you distribute the budgets proportionally according to the strategic objectives that you set yourself, Mr. Counsellor. I'm not saying anything else. There's no money for local networks, osasun-sarea esaten da da, no. Third, inclusion in the school curriculum of contents related to healthy behaviors, healthy eating, physical activity, alcohol, tobacco, addictions, affective-sexual relationships, etc. Four, progress towards new, more modern, more effective and more efficient organizational formulas, which allow them to adapt to new health needs, avoid duplication and reduce the risk of medicalization of life, especially in the child population. If there are no health promotion strategies, if there is no proactive attitude of our professionals towards healthy people, inequalities in health, which is our problem in the first world, in Euskadi, with our level of wealth, is our problem the unequal health needs of the population. What about the breast cancer prevention health program? Why aren't 33% of women there? Because the most disadvantaged sectors have problems of cultural access. So do proactive policies. Where do you die most of cancer? On the left margin. Do proactive detection policies in these vulnerable groups. Why don't people go to PADI? Why doesn't 34% go to the Child Dental Care Plan? Who are they? For the most disadvantaged sectors, those on the verge of social exclusion. Then make proactive policies with those groups, which you know who they are. Because we have good epidemiological systems, we know who they are. Make proactive policies to the healthy or at-risk population that you know has health inequalities. He's got inequalities. What are health inequalities? That people get sick, die, have avoidable pain or disability. That's health inequalities. And I'm done. Five, promoting the culture of evaluation, orienting integrated health organizations towards continuous improvement in management and care outcomes. And finally, a matter that is in a challenge and has made me very happy: definition and development of the nursing care model. The role of our nursing professionals must be redefined, encouraged and oriented in the health centers towards the street. 72% of women in Euskadi over 65 live alone. From the socio-sanitary strategy paper presented by the lehendakari in Donostia on another day, third page: 72% of women over 65 live alone. Where are the vulnerable? We know, we have all the data, we have good information systems. Nursing, physiotherapists, family doctors have to be at home. They say, "Excuse me, J, if we don't have time, what are you doing? No time? There's no staff. Template is that we're a little..." Well, that's what we have to negotiate. Because that is guiding the health system towards people's health. Definition and development of the nursing care model in Osakidetza, which allows this group to meet the health needs of our population, current and future, and the new professional reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, come on. Well, I think it is gratifying, because we have managed to focus the debate on the agreement reached, Mr Uria. You will recognize that the inquiry and the motion subsequently raised following the inquiry into the Community activities of the OSI in Vitoria-Gasteiz was somewhat confusing. You've also made us some breaks as well. As soon as he told us about the situation of the OSI of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the situation of the nursing staff itself, as soon as he also made a somewhat nostalgic speech about that school health team established in the 1980s, in the early 1980s. And as you know, the whole issue of school health has evolved and has been adapted, thus adapting organizations to prevention, health promotion with the existing teams in primary care, family doctors, pediatricians and nurses. I believe that, Mr Uria, you must be very grateful to Mrs Red, Mrs Larrauri, Mrs Blanco and the spokesman speaking to you, because we have managed to focus the debate on the agreement finally reached. And as a guide, I have to say that this group, when making the amendment, took into account, rather than taking into account, the approaches envisaged in the Health Plan. I think it is an important document as a guide to action, in the sense that the strategic lines of health policy are set out in a sufficiently broad period of time. And it must be said that there are still things to be done, Mr Lehendakari. And in that regard, through our amendment, we have tried to introduce some important issues. Therefore, satisfaction. We believe that we have focused the debate and, in addition, we have referred to issues that really had specific relevance in relation to health prevention and promotion. That's why we talked about promoting healthy lifestyles, preventing risky behaviors, from a multidisciplinary and comprehensive definition and focusing especially on the child population. We also referred in our amendment, which was included in the agreement, to Community health activities, especially at local level, creating new channels of communication, in coordination with municipalities, educational centres and other entities linked to Community health initiatives, specific actions on health determinants at Community level. And another issue that seemed important to us and on which we believe there was still much to be done by the Department of Health of the Basque Government, was the inclusion in the school curriculum of contents related to healthy behaviors, all that has to do with healthy eating, physical activity, alcohol, tobacco, addictions and also affective-sexual relationships. We are also moving towards more modern and effective and efficient formulas to adapt to new health needs, avoiding duplication. I believe that this is something that is also clear from the agreement reached. Finally, a forecast that we also consider interesting, which comes also in the Health Plan and which we believe can also be worked on, such as promoting the culture of evaluation of policies that are being implemented and guiding integrated health organizations towards the continuous improvement of management and care outcomes. And finally, the mention of care and the nursing care model, also with the objective that with the new nursing roles can be faced the new health needs that we also have with an important dependent population and all the needs that in relation to the aging of the population occur. So, this is what there is, Mr. Uria. I think you can be happy, especially because we, the women Members I have appointed, have finally focused a debate. I hope that with the agreement reached and the specific issues mentioned, the Government will also give us news and, in this regard, promote concrete initiatives in relation to the specific areas to which we have referred. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u127	Thank you, Madame Committee, all the afternoons. To begin with, I must confess that I have had to exercise a profound exercise of the proposals which appeared in the original motion, and which at last appears in the medium we have finally signed, in order to reconcile to this interference. In this motion which Mr. Uria presented, there are several localities mentioned. On the one hand, he said, the state of the Integrated Sanitarian organization of the Araba. On the other hand, about the model of health program that was given in the schools before ESI was created, something is said. Besides, there's a reference to professional nurses. As for the proposed side, some new elements come in. In addition to a shallow problem, the chronic patients, the household work in rehab, the chronic patients, as I said, are talking about teams of masters. So after we had examined this motion, and had done the exercise which I was speaking of at the beginning, we presented a full correction with two prominent subjects. On the one hand, in order to develop the healthy habits and prevention, we introduced a point, and, on the other hand, in order to ensure the social standard, the second point. It is essential for us to reinvent the arrangement of all EYSYS. We are clear that we have to end up with the fact that they are hospitalisms and medical training, and that in every respect we must push the first attention to being understood in a more comprehensive manner. Undoubtedly, we must invest far more in our first care if we want a healthier society. As they are now, the medical center can generally provide chronic patients, because there are a lot of them, and it's a very short time for promotion and prevention. So it would take more human resources to do the work that's not done right now. And within all that reorganization of OSI, there are some programs that are already in place and that we should push, like the Mugiment program, which is a government program, and that is why we included it in our amendment and, finally, it also appears in the compromise amendment. This program, in short, agrees with the health plan. It's a plan for physical activity and the prevention of a life of life that Kulturals and Medical Departments and the Education Department had driven into each other's work. And this activity seems to us a fine idea, we share philosophy, but we also find that, when plans and enterprises are invented, we must develop. My partner, my dear Kortja, as he said this morning, is also the time to pass through the conversation. And in this case and sharing that the different zones and OSI have different rhythms, and also sharing their capacity for autonomy, we also consider that there are common lines of action for all organizations, as I have just mentioned. And for us it is interesting and convenient to promote healthy lifestyle habits between boys and girls, health education that is said, deepening the promotion of physical activity, training in issues such as sex education, information about drug use, how to deal with stress, how to deal with school harassment, for example. And the fact is that most of the jobs that have been done during the course of years is simply to put vaccination on children and teenagers, for lack of example, for lack of human resources or lack of co-ordination. So we've got to finish this job and, as I said, we have to remake it. Health, too, must be included in the process of education, because it is essential for a quality life and education. All this jacket to describe the first point of our overall correction. On the other hand, and on our second point, I will explain a little reflection. The original mutation transmits the wallet of the socio-sanitarian sonata. I know Mr. Uria doesn't share this point of view, but we find it very clear at the third point of the motion. It is true that he speaks in community terms, and I know what Mr Uria refers to, but when we talk about programmes within and outside health centres, when we talk about specific population groups, immigrant population, women or associations of older people, home rehabilitation, care for chronic or terminal patients, we assume that we want to go beyond sharing aspirin, taking stress, or making cures. We assume and understand that the aim is to give comprehensive attention to all people in different areas, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable groups for whatever causes they are, and ensuring that care, support and care networks are established. That is why, in our second point, we talked about the need to push forward the socio-health model, ensuring the human and economic resources that are needed during this process. It seemed that we were the only parliamentary group that thought this way, but Mr Uria in his first speech, the fact is that he has appointed him. And, in fact, we know that we have had a problem with Mr. Uria on this point, because each one understands it differently, but now I am completely dislocated, because you don't want to interfere in the middle, and that's what you've been talking about. So I don't understand. What I don't understand is, maybe the teams that give you a plug-in don't want to go in on purpose? Maybe they had trouble setting up our second point? We don't know, they'll have time to figure it out in their turn. And I end up like I started. I recognize that it has not been easy to amalgamate the different concepts that appeared in the motion and that have appeared in the speech, so that it is understood to translate it into an amendment to the whole, and proof of this is that the parliamentary groups have each gone on our side. We were talking about resolutions, about the Health Plan, others were talking about something else, well, a compromise amendment was finally signed. And that was easy to agree. I'm not gonna explain what appears there because you're available for what we signed. But, to be honest, we think it has little to do with the original initiative. We have a medium with but few individuals, and, after all, it's only an expression of intention, and it'll be proof in the vote. It will be unanimously allowed a point of health, which will not often happen. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u129	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Well, indeed, Mr Uria brought us to the full of control, rather he brought Mr Darpón, an inquiry which, although the title seemed quite concrete, when one read the speech that Mr Uria did, spoke after many things and expanded much more the object that that initial title proposed. Today, Mr Uria tells us that this is part of a concrete situation, of a group of concrete nurses, in a specific place, and that from there this served to deepen a little on the subject and try to shape the concern that Elkarrekin has in this case We can with the need to reorganize, to try to aim a little better in the organization that is within the structure of Osakidetza. When Mr Darpón answers that more specific part and the motion that we are debating today comes to him, it is complicated for the groups that we are not the proposers to introduce a compromise amendment because there was talk of many things and it was a little difficult for us to reach out, and from that each one, as Mrs Blanco said, we have pointed to things that are quite diverse but that you, Mr Uria, in a very generous way, have agreed to collect them all. And that is why the transaction is so complete, has so many points and talks about so many things; that I am very happy, because I think this is the first time that there is unanimity on a health issue. Therefore, Mr Uria, I think we should congratulate you that you are quite insistent with these things which sometimes seem to only understand you, but in which we are all involved. So, what I was telling Mr Darpón at the time is that the organisation you are talking about actually comes from 40 years ago, and that it has actually had to be subject to change. They do not always like everyone, as it seems that they do not like that group of people to whom he referred, but that, in fact, changes have been made to ensure service, to prioritize resources and to try to make things work. That is why I understand that you share with the Government and with all groups that things, although things can be improved, are actually being done and improved. Because when that structure was made there was no law, there were no most of the centers that we have today, there were no programs and plans that Osakidetza has been able to develop today so that Basque health is where it is. And it is true that we can talk about healthy habits by linking it to the field of education, to disease prevention policies, to the need for coordination between some departments and others, and so we could make almost a compromise amendment that was longer than that plan you mentioned to us. Therefore, I believe that today, by trying to focus, the issue was the OSI of Vitoria-Gasteiz, and what we have collected I think it covers even much more than that. I believe that, as you have said, throughout this parliamentary term, this issue will certainly be much more developed by initiatives than you present yourself, and I hope that it will be in everyone's hands to continue working with a unanimity such as that which we are going to vote on in a few minutes and we will continue to deepen on the subject. But it is true that the initiatives should be a little in line with the issue, so that those of us who have to make amendments, although it is not a duty to do so, we can attenuate and so what we approve is actually related to what we have come to talk about. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u130	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons. During the entire meeting of the 17th control of November, Mr. Uria made an interaction with the head physician of the Medical Department about the ESI of Ara, and not Gastine, or Commitarian activities. In our opinion, the chief physician was an absolute answer. But you introduced the motion again, and we're with it today. Finally, we have managed to reach an agreement. A unanimous agreement on general aspects contained in other health plans or documents and the agreement is always positive, we too welcome the agreement. And I also thank you for the availability you have shown in this matter. But as you have stated – a conclusion that we had certainly already reached – the origin of the inquiry and motion is in a discrepancy that arose as a result of a relocation that came as a result of a change in a specific health program, the school health program. A programme which, as has already been said, is a programme of the 1980s, which was even prior to the creation of Osakidetza, prior to the creation of primary care and prior to many of the health references we know today. And this programme is true that it has undergone a change, but we must not doubt that, on the one hand, labour rights have been guaranteed at all times, all people remain within the organization and for their relocation, in the event that relocation has been necessary, their preferences, the preferences of professionals and the needs that existed at those times in the organization, to the extent possible, always to the extent possible, agreeing and, of course, taking advantage of their long experience. And the organization has also adapted to the times. It has been adopted to the current needs, without diminishing in the quality of services and maintaining the sustainability of the system. And you, Mr Uria, taking advantage of that small discrepancy that arises from some people, take advantage to question the whole model and not, we do not think it is entirely correct. And in addition, that questioning of the model we understand that it should be part of another debate, not a debate that originates with this title and with that initial content. And besides, probably, it would give us for several full monographs. In any case, our group, like the Department of Health, Osakidetza and you too, I understand, bet to continue to promote and promote health prevention and promotion from a multidisciplinary perspective, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is not competence, prevention and promotion is nobody's exclusive competence. We also aim to continue to carry out community health activities in coordination with municipalities, educational centres and other entities linked to community health initiatives. The Community profile is therefore still guaranteed. And we also aim to continue to advance in new organizational formulas, more modern, effective and efficient, that allow them to adapt to new needs and that avoid unnecessary duplications. We therefore advocate an integrated health care model, in which school health is part of primary care, and is already part of it. Therefore, we defend a model that, in the end, is the one contained in the current Health Plan. And there is no doubt that the Government continues to be committed to child health, primary care and is working to strengthen primary care in particular. We insist that it cannot be called into question that, due to changes, there is a decline in services, in the quality of services or in people's work situations. And as has been said, since the Arab OSI decided a few months ago, in coordination with the Department of Education, to redefine the content and functions of the School Health Service, School Health Service that came from course 80-81, which had a specific content related to health care for schoolchildren, but that with the subsequent development of other health programs, such as the Children's Health Program and primary care teams, this content has been absorbed within that Children's Health Program. Therefore, as far as professionals are concerned, in this process of adaptation, which has been a process, which has lasted a while, professionals have always been taken into account, they have been agreed with them. Initially, that school health team had eight people and had ended up with four people because it had been understood that it was appropriate. At all times the subject has been agreed. And the team has also been framed in Primary Care, specifically in the Primary Care Unit of the Lakuabizkarra Health Centre, so there has been no impairment. And you also talk about the solution that has been given in other OSI, which has been different. Indeed, in other OSI, another solution has probably been given, because each OSI is different, because the integration solution has occurred at a different time, because the starting points of each organization are different. Neither the circumstances are the same, nor the needs are the same, nor the professionals are the same. Therefore, solutions have been given probably similar, not equal, because they cannot be equal, but there is no single reference, none is the ideal reference. Each organization assumes the right solution, which is more appropriate to it. And in any case, in most OSI, today there is no specific school health team. And the effects of evolution are understood to have been positive. And for all this, and by grouping together all the requests of the groups and understanding, moreover, that they came from documents that were contained in the health programmes, we have reached an agreement in which it is driven and followed and it is called for further deepening in aspects, in general aspects. In any case, we insist that the Arab OSI continues and will continue to guarantee the attention it pays to the school population so far, with an organizational change that prevents unnecessary duplication and inefficiencies in the system, but ensuring, at all times, that services and actions are covered. And yes, the government does have proactive health policies, Mr Uria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. After the answers, Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u133	Bakartxo Tejeria, lehendakari, compañeros and compañeras, to forgive this excess of time, is a minute. To insist on thanking political groups for achieving a diverse consensus is that if we do not respect ourselves in diversity, where do we respect ourselves? I am convinced that this Parliament will sooner or later vote on a pact in defence of Basque public health, and that has been my attitude in this and other non-law proposals or other motions that we will be presenting. Next one's on Primary Care. Next time, I am convinced that a defence pact is possible and necessary for Basque public health, political. Second. Indeed, we have been able to mix concrete problems with general problems, from particular to general, of course. If there were no specific problems that we would not have detected, we would indeed not have given more thought to the functioning of the systems, for example in this Parliament, or in Osakidetza, or in Education. It is the specific problems that make us reflect on the organization of the systems; that is what I have done. You have understood me perfectly, and that is why I reiterate my thanks. As you see, I have made a little emphasis on the importance of local health networks and extend the experience we have in Euskadi, we are not so great. If we have more than twelve municipalities with local health networks, why do we extend them? We know that it is the guarantee that health promotion strategies will impact people. Without a doubt, primary care with community orientation, with promotion orientation, gives better results in health, is more efficient, is more sustainable, is more accessible and is more equitable. And, indeed, each OSI is different. That's why it would be very interesting to do pilot experiments with the ability to extend them to the network as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The Basque Popular must not speak. From there, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u135	Out of the way. In short, the first round I said I was dislocated, and now even more. The question and the motion were somewhat in line, the amendments of the parliamentary groups spoke of different things. The speeches by the speakers and the spokesman, I think that there are few things in common at this particular point. Then, then, it gives rise to an agreement of a very broad and very acceptable thing. Well, among other things, because there are proposals for health plan resolutions that we also support in your day. How are we not going to support him! But I think it is also fair to say that it will be the last time that at least this Member signs a compromise amendment that has little to do with the original initiative or with the amendments that we are putting in the groups. That's what we're going to stick to exclusively. And well, congratulations on an agreement. Because in the end it's a deal. Rarely on a health issue, as we have said. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Red walk. And Mrs. Laruri is going to take the word? From there. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u137	From the seat, madam. Nothing. Simply share the agreement, the joy or the satisfaction of the agreement. And that we fully share with Mr Uria the health objectives, as the Basque Government's Department of Health has on numerous occasions stated. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars, EH Collectek, Sozialists, and Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-02-15.u139	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-five.
