ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the second point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "On the sideboard, in the direction of the Mines, and of the Socionomical State of the Oarso. Discipline and final resolution. You know we're on our way here. Because they're all on the side, you'll have six minutes every one of you to defend the report. The big one, the Popular Party, Monsieur Damborena, is your word for defending the report.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you all know, the last parliamentary term, in plenary on 7 May 2015, the plenary of this House adopted a compromise amendment unanimously to create a paper to study two – let us say – areas of the Basque Country, which are characterized by having much lower socio-economic indicators than the rest of the Community. It was adopted unanimously. Work has been done during the last parliamentary term and during this term. There have been more than thirty-five appearances; each of the representatives of the Left Margin, the Government, the governments, the administrations, the municipalities have given their opinions, and, as we have to divide the time, for I will start almost a bit at the beginning, reading what are those negative indicators of these two areas, of the Left Margen-Zona Minera and of Oarsoaldea. And we can say that these negative indicators, which demonstrate the actual situation in the areas, are: one, ageing population, the first in the rate of ageing and the negative vegetative balance; high unemployment rate, more than 20%, twice as much as the rest of the Autonomous Community, with the worsening of chronification, and particularly severe youth unemployment, above 40; high school failure rate, up to 30% in Ezkerraldea; low GDP per capita They are at the tail of the Autonomous Community at the level of secondary and tertiary education, with low professional qualifications of the unemployed; specialisation in low value-added jobs; low R & D activity, which logically leads to a lower technological level, compared to other regions or areas; low levels of internationalisation of enterprises working in these areas, which entails little export capacity; progressive urban degradation and hence social degradation; increase in the rate of real poverty and social aid; as is evident, as poverty increases, social aid, and expenditure on low municipal investment, mainly due to the high dependence on the collection mass of other supra-municipal bodies and the capacity of municipalities themselves to generate income which subsequently has an impact on improving services. Well, these are the conclusions of the indexes we reached in the paper. And this paper has come to some conclusions: that these imbalances... despite other previous plans, at least two, inter-agency and investments made by different administrations, and these policies driven by the result, it is clear that they have been insufficient: imbalances have not been corrected, but rather appear to be chronised. And there have been two types of actions or recommendations, which is what the paper can do, because it is clear that the paper does not govern, is neither Administration nor can take action on its own, and we have come to two types of recommendations. One, which has to be immediate, with the approach of putting in place, within three months, a shock plan, which responds primarily to the requests of the municipalities, a work training plan, and basically incentivising the Indartu plan, which increases the investments that are made. Let's just say this would be urgent in that crash plan. And then, of course, an inter-institutional strategic plan, in which all the administrations involved should participate – or what the presentation proposes is that they participate – that have something to say, such as, of course, the municipalities, the deputies, the Basque Government, the central government and the European Union, as well as economic and social actors participating in the area. And I do not want to take away from the rest of the colleagues in the paper the ideas they want to make, because I leave my speech here and, of course, as we have a unanimous agreement, because we hope that this plan or these conclusions from this paper, it would be interesting for them to be put into practice as soon as possible, and for that reason, what we are urging – in this case, the Basque Government, which is sitting here today – is that it be put in place and pulled out of the car, so that this interinstitutional plan in the end is a reality and works.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u3	Egun where you're going. Welcome to the mayors of the Left Margen and Meatzaldea. Today we finally approve a project loaded with the future for the citizens of four regions that were waiting for answers, and the first idea I want to highlight is precisely that we do so unanimously from this House. In this House we have shown, as the Socialists have been insisting, that our agenda must be that of those whom we represent: our concerns must be yours and, for my group, an agreement like today has value only for that reason. But it does because, in the answers we agree, we have put all social partners and all institutional levels online: municipalities, parliaments, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. And if something should be taken into account – and my group is not forgotten – it is that the great transformations we have seen in Euskadi have always required that joint effort. This year, in which 25 have been completed since the constitution of Bilbao Ría 2000, we recall that, without this inter-institutional collaboration, it would not have been possible for the Bilbao and Barakaldo that we know today, neither in urban planning, nor in housing, nor in transport, nor in the environment or in tourism. For the Socialists, this agreement today reflects that same spirit and does so, moreover, bearing in mind the contributions of all the people who have wanted to participate in this presentation and, among them, will allow me to remember a sociologist recognized as one of the greatest experts in the matter that we have dealt with; I mean Victor Urrutia; because, unfortunately for him, today he will not be able to see that his reflections have incorporated them into the bet by these regions. And also as socialists we want to highlight that effort. An effort that, I told you, has reflected since the work began more than three years ago. I am grateful to Iker for his initiative, who knows that, from the zero minute, he had the support of the socialists and their full involvement, and I am grateful for the work of final consensus that Joseba has managed to channel. I will not take a retrospective look at the regions, because it is well known, and in this Parliament, moreover, it has been done on several occasions, because I believe that today the look has to be towards the future, because today what we ratify is our commitment and our commitment determined by these regions and by these areas. There have been certain elements that have become more evident during the work of the paper and that we have established in the development of the conclusions as a cross-cutting axis in the development of the two instruments that we have considered necessary: the shock plan and the inter-institutional plan. Instruments that must start from the need for a minimum agreement on a shared diagnosis and priorities that mark urban, social and economic regeneration processes, which must be implemented in these regions. The perspective of the region must be complete, and must revolve around both the territory and the people, as well as the economy. The shock plan is something that is conceived as an immediate action plan, which is set at three months for its preparation and must contain, among other things, one that is essential: a plan for training and job integration, because one of the greatest challenges facing this region is the low or inadequate training of the unemployed or the unemployed in these areas. A plan which, starting from a study of retraining for reintegration into the labour market, in particular for the most difficult groups, proposes concrete actions for a proper union of supply and demand of professional profiles, so that there is a smooth transition between education and work, a proper retraining of unemployed people towards demand-driven sectors and a better orientation of training towards strategic sectors. We point out, for this purpose, a management instrument, which is essential for the socialists: the creation of an integral training centre in each region, which, from the involvement and collaboration of all the actors involved – and in this we refer both to the institutions and to the training centres, trade unions and employers – analyse, design and manage the training needs that enable these job opportunities for both unemployed and workers. For the implementation and development of this training plan, as it cannot be otherwise, it is proposed that a special interinstitutional fund be set up logically, with an extraordinary financial envelope, which must be assumed by all the competent institutions in this field (municipalities, deputies and government), so that the effort to be made is also a shared effort. And, of course, the socialists also share with the rest of the groups that the Strategic Plan for Socio-economic Reactivation of Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea, from a region perspective, must be carried out by overcoming more localistic visions, making a diagnosis that has to be participatory and cross-cutting, and designing measures that, in the medium and long term, must be implemented to correct imbalances and inequalities in these areas. A plan that, as I have told you before, must be structured around three axes: territory, people and economy. Land from the point of view of the housing stock, planning instruments, environmental improvements, territorial cohesion through transport and infrastructure; priority policies and policy actions for urban regeneration that improve the attractiveness of both the residential and the environment of these regions, that recovers the idle soils that exist there and that develops infrastructures from a healthier and sustainable perspective. The challenge of unemployment, training, education, inclusion and social and community services must also be addressed from the very centre of people's minds. We must focus our efforts on tackling the high rate of school failure, since concerted action with the educational community, which develops the care economy, not only as a source of work, but as an opportunity for intergenerational social cohesion. And also from the economy, logically, to attract industrial projects, to establish a plan to support the location of companies with own product on available soils, to support existing companies for their consolidation and improvement of activity, without forgetting, logically, something important also and that has been marked by everyone when intervening, which is that tourist potential that is linked to the industrial past, which is the real sign of identity, for example, of Ezkerraldea. Finally, many different lines of action, many different actors involved. Today we are going to approve it in this Parliament and we are going to approve it unanimously, yes. But our work doesn't end here. There is now a journey to expose and engage all the parties, a work that, since the presentation, we have committed ourselves to launch without delay, following the adoption of the opinion today. I conclude my speech by thanking everyone for their participation and efforts, and I am pleased, at last, to have a reactivation plan for these regions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together Podemos, Martínezion, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u5	Yes, good morning, thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Zorrill and Mrs. Casanova for the work I'd done. What we have in hand is the result of a month's labour, which would be impossible without the will of one's own labor. This is a fundamental agreement, a fundamental agreement, not by a crisis, but on the conclusions and proposals which have been independently punished on the left side, Meazald, and Oarsis. Our party introduced 51 contributions to the created document, among other things, by creating a particular chapter for the embassy. We think, besides what has been said, that there are other regions which require a special attention, and in this sense the proposition which arises from ponciferation must also affect them. They, too, are in great need of public politics, and we wanted to try to give it an answer from this point of view. We would have liked it to be a more ambitious document, in character or in spirit, if not binding, but binding for the rest of the administrations that have a fundamental role to play in the development of these regions, such as the municipalities themselves, the parliaments themselves, the government of the State itself and also the European Union. But, well, we hope that this document of conclusions and recommendations will serve for coordinated work by all these institutions. Our contributions –51 as I had commented – are true that some are inside, others are more unclear, but it has been a document of conclusions and recommendations with which we feel comfortable. While we and we were advocating, beyond identifying the strategic sectors to which we had to direct the economy of these regions, for a much more direct public intervention, it is true that there is a recognition of the need for the public authorities to identify the sectors that are going to be tractors for these regions and to work in that direction, and hence the contribution that we have made and that we have agreed among all the groups. A fundamental contribution that is collected – and that seems to us to be fundamental – was an independent diagnosis of the policies that had been carried out so far; because, as we have spoken in the presentation, there have been many policies and plans that have been put in place from different administrations and that we believe they have not had the effect that was expected. Therefore, that diagnosis is there, and like the periodic evaluation and also some control by this Parliament, which is true that we would have liked it to be more than that, but there remains that control by this Parliament. Also the above-mentioned institutional coordination, which Mrs Castelo has mentioned. We had proposed that specific and special authorities be set up to manage these plans. Well, we are not yet at that stage, but I believe that institutional coordination is sufficiently reflected in the outcome document, and hopefully so. The shock plan and strategic plan have already been explained by Mr Damborenea and Mrs Castelo; our proposals went beyond what is in the document, but it is clear that the bet has to be on the conversion of low-value-added sectors into high-value-added sectors, into high-tech industrial sectors, into the green economy that is well reflected in the energy transition commitment. We believe – yes – that we have lacked some ambition to face a challenge that we have, which is the dependence of the gas that we have in the Port of Bilbao, and in Euskadi in general, but identifying the Port of Bilbao as one of the elements of the region of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, and also of the future of the Petronor plant. It is also true that we had made specific mention to the tractor companies of the economy, such as La Naval, that we know how it is right now, and to ArcelorMittal of Sestao, and we believe that they had to have a specific mention, but well, we will continue to work on it as well. As regards education, the study and the fight against school failure from an area that is reflected in the socio-educational sphere has also been mentioned so far, because the solution is not only from the field of education, and exactly the same for vocational training and the specific work that Lanbide has to do in these regions, with special plans for training and, above all, for employability. Other sectors of the economy that are fundamental to the development of these regions have also been mentioned, such as urban regeneration or the care economy, and not only as a source of work, but as a source of dignity for the lives of people living in these regions and throughout our country. The goal must be nothing other than that of dignified life, and the economy of care, urban regeneration, and the regeneration of housing go in that direction. A fundamental issue that we thought had to be, such as that of local trade and the circular economy, is reflected, and also the feeling of belonging to these regions, which is achieved not only by campaigns, but also by public policies; but also by campaigns that highlight the feeling of belonging to Ezkerraldea, to Meatzaldea, to Oarsoaldea, etc., in each region and also in the others, to avoid also the depopulation and ageing of these regions. In particular, we also need to highlight the contribution that only our group had made and that is reflected, which is the cross-cutting of equality policies for both shock plans and inter-agency plans, and we believe that this is positive. And I'm concluding, as I was starting. Obviously, it is not the document that Elkarrekin Podemos would have adopted, but we are very pleased that it is a consensus document, it is a positive document, which we hope will be a document for serious work, and we hope to see a reflection of this in the Basque Government's budgets this year. In those last year, our group presented specific shock plans for these regions, which were rejected. Let us hope that this year, both in the Basque Government and in parliaments and municipalities, this work will be done so necessary, because we hope that we will not hear again that "we have lost hope, lost illusion, the problems continue to be solved", which was so much heard in Ezkerraldea. Let us hope that this document and this step that we are taking today, this adoption of today, will be the end of those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u6	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u7	Yes, good morning everyone, welcome to the left and the Mayor of Meazatz. We brought him to this legislature three years ago, and we defended him from this dysentery and with this T-shirt, and we defended him with the same T-shirt, in order to create a band of jobs around the State of the Left-hander. This original proposition was enriched by the contributions of the other parliamentary groups, and was either discussed or discussed among the countries which were to be discussed, the Mines and the Oarsians. Some things have changed these three years, and we may say that the general economic situation has improved a little, and that this has also been felt in these regions. But unfortunately, just a little. During these three years we have also seen some of the most important corporations in these parts have passed through a very delicate situation, and some have even come to close it. We need to name the Cell Company, ACB, La Naval, Productos Tubulus, General Electric... We can say that all the main companies have been passed through the problem. And that's not a coincidence. It's not a coincidence! After all, this leads us to a reflection, which was the reflection that led us to set this power on. The problem is not superficial. There's no such thing as real problems. Problems are not only quantum problems, but there is a deep problem that corresponds to productive pattern. We have often said that we have an historic debt to these regions, because a great part of the wealth of the Basque Country was founded in these parts. These regions were formed, too, in answer to the necessities of a productive model, and this productive model was of the heaviest industry, especially of steel and fleets. When this kind of industry has disappeared, these regions have been stripped of productive patterns, and we believe that our main challenge is to build a new productive pattern. We are critical of the treatment that has been given from the institutions to these Skualdes Throughout the work of this paper, it has been underlined the existence of a multitude of plans that sought to alleviate precisely the disappearance of the traditional production model in these regions. We may disagree on whether these plans are well or poorly focused, but on what there is a consensus that these plans have not been enough and therefore we are under an obligation to make further contributions in that direction. And precisely this opinion, the opinion of the presentation, is the contribution that we make from this Parliament to the construction, design and commitment of a new productive model for the Left Margin, the Mining Zone and Oarsoaldea. If I had to recapitulate all the recommendations and ideas here expressed in four words or four axes, I should mention: the former, as I have said, a productive pattern, the second an advanced industry, the third an engagement between institutions, and the fourth a social participation. I believe that these four are the main axes on which this contribution from Parliament is centered: advanced industry, a new productive model, interinstitutional commitment and social participation, in order to tackle, in an integral way, the problems of regions that are really in line with the socio-economic indicators in this country. We understand that it is important – and that is why I am not going to mention concrete proposals for reactivation today – to articulate a process of participation so that all the socio-economic agents in the regions involved can make and contribute their vision, because it is not just a question of sharing an analysis, but it is also a question of placing those agents to be protagonists of the solution. Because we bet on endogenous development, and endogenous development cannot be carried forward without input, participation and the role of the actors involved. Previously there was a mention of a song by Eskorbuto; I'm also going to mention La Polla Records – if not less – when it said, "You made our houses next to your factories." It is true that there are things that have changed in these escualdes escualdes continuum You can hang your clothes on the balconies without picking it up dirtier than it used to be, filled with soot or steel particles emitting the multitude of factories that, as I said, were glimpsed with houses... There have indeed been things that have changed for the better, but we still have a structural problem: we still lack a productive model that will bring about the socio-economic activity of these regions and allow the hundreds of thousands of people living in them to have a dignified future and to have jobs and lives, from a material point of view, of higher quality and with greater resources. We make a contribution, and now we pass the witness to other operators. We'll continue to continue, we'll continue our work, we'll continue to push these processes, and as far as we're from being so-called and sociolyptic agents, we'll be able to participate in those parts of action that are going on. But now we pass the witness to other institutions in order that they may complete their role. We hope so. We hope, as soon as possible, that the impact plan is still in effect, and we hope that we can design the strategic plan by putting the integral and transversal process on immediately. That's our contribution, and we think the Leftlands, the Meazalds, and the Oarsolds are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u8	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u9	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. I'd like to welcome the mayor and ladies who are here today. Good morning and welcome again. Firstly, I would like to highlight the work done during these years and, above all, the consensus reached in this paper. I would not dare to say that we have never, but we have rarely so far agreed all political groups on a problem that has dragged on since the 1980s, in the last century, mainly the result of the strong deindustrialisation of these areas. Which we consider very positive. As was said, following the passage by the parliamentary presentation of more than 40 representatives, representatives of institutions, associations and the educational and trade union sphere, we have been able to all parliamentary groups to agree conclusions and recommendations to try to deal adequately with this problem. In terms of methodology, we were initially asked whether to make two plans, one for Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, and one for Oarsoaldea; in the end, we chose to make a framework plan for disadvantaged areas, which could even be useful. for export to other Skualdes The findings have been shared by almost all those present and are based on objective data. Despite the fact that there is an unbeatable geographical situation, that it is equipped with important infrastructures and with all the policies promoted in recent decades by the administrations, aimed at improving the situation of people living in these areas, it is true that important problems are detected today, which are found through a series of negative indicators that demonstrate the actual situation of the areas under analysis, which Mr Damborenea has mentioned. In conclusion, we are faced with the most disadvantaged environments in the Basque Autonomous Community, as the European Union has also declared, without forgetting Enkarterri. It is therefore necessary and vital to continue to take coordinated measures, from all institutions, to try to permanently curb and reverse the trend of this situation. So the South, the Meander, and the Oarsoian regions must also be attended with urgent attention to the Election of Election, and all the institutions must maintain and increase their will. We have to take back the regions we're talking about, socially and economically. These are areas where important urban, economic and social regeneration processes are required, and we believe that a minimum agreement on the shared vision of diagnosis and, above all, the priorities of each of these areas is necessary and vital. Eta eskualde-planteamendu horretatik abiatuta, beharrezkoa iruditzen zaigu bi jarduera mota Egypta, mentioned earlier: a shock plan to urgently meet the current needs, which must be coordinated with social policies, and, within a year, an interinstitutional strategic plan for socio-economic recovery, participatory plan, with the institutions, respecting, logically, their institutional areas, and where economic or social actors are located, and cross-cutting – I believe it is a matter that has remained a little..., and I will emphasize it – because, although the main axis must be industry and employment, it is also necessary to take measures in the areas of social policies, education, training, housing, rehabilitation or urban regeneration, heritage, infrastructure, tourism, trade, transport, culture, etc. And following the agreement adopted by this House in the last legislature, and reaffirmed in the present, under the heading of recommendations, a set of minimum guidelines and objectives to be taken into account in the design of these inter-institutional strategic plans, which we could summarise in the following points: As we said before, on cross-cutting, the plan must have a comprehensive perspective and cover the main socio-economic aspects. Secondly, the need for training as a axis of the future is essential, relying on the qualification and retraining of groups with greater difficulties of integration, dual training, talent and entrepreneurship. Thirdly, one of the main axes, as we said, must be reindustrialisation, continuing with the development of the industrial land already developed and with the work for the attraction and implementation of new industries, preferably advanced industries, thus giving an impetus to R & D+i, which exert a tractor effect on new industries. In this line, we can mention the strategic project of the Technology Park of Ezkerraldea or yesterday the presentation in the port of Bilbao of the wind energy company Haizea Wind. This is combined with measures to help modernise declining industries, to make them more competitive and to promote their internationalization. Fourthly, it has also been mentioned here: promoting its undisputed tourism potential and trade. And finally, policies for urban regeneration, to improve the environment and attractiveness for both economic and residential activity; that is, to make cities more friendly and friendly, eliminating infra-housing and regenerating degraded areas, developing new local and regional infrastructures that respond to their needs, and promoting public policy lines of rent for young people and public housing supply. As you can see, many of these proposals are already being implemented. Councils, parliaments, the Basque Government continue to work, because they are aware of the reality that is lived in these regions, despite the criticisms of Mr Casanova. Even in Oarsoaldea, I believe that a consensus-based master plan is already under way by all the parties involved in it. In order to achieve this, we need basically three ingredients: firstly, political will, which I believe we are showing here today that we share it at this time and now all the parliamentary groups, and with the added value that in addition all these parliamentary groups present here have representation in all the institutional areas mentioned; secondly, time, the measures of the plan, we understand that they must be sustained in time, and thirdly, economic resources, this is reflected and will be concrete in the different budgets of all these institutions. That political will will therefore require more sacrifice and effort on the part of the institutions, but it must also be shared by all the political groups that support this plan today, and show the same support when necessary. I would like to conclude my speech, of course, by thanking all the people who have contributed their point of view and their proposals for improvement in this parliamentary presentation, which has been delayed over time, but which we hope will be productive and mark the beginning of a before and after in the regions analysed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u10	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the power report. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u11	So, unanimously, the power report has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Modélo Barrio Barroja, member of the Populale team, with regard to the projects of the book, book stores, and readings, and the prospects of the Euskés. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u12	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we have signed a compromise amendment to the five parliamentary groups, which, with this removal of the second item on the agenda, will surely be distributed. [[He looks at the head of the table.]] ; but, well, the spokespersons, everyone knows the agreement we have reached, and it is unanimous, so, in that sense, I think this debate has taken place well. As you will recall, we called on the Councillor for Culture and Linguistic Policy at the last plenary session, in connection with the support and promotion of the book, bookstores and reading. It was an initiative that connected with some identification of plans and programmes, which experts and distributors, entrepreneurs, who worked in the world of the book, had identified as necessary. We have reached an agreement, and I will be brief, because I think the fundamental thing is to understand that we have to... that the Government is working on the development of a plan to promote reading and the book. And in this regard, we have reached the agreement to urge the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government to draw up and present in this Parliament and society a plan to support and promote reading and the book, financed – it was the government's demand – from the 2019 budget – it is clear that 2019 will finance it – but the work is beginning, logically, in what are the key elements of this plan of reading and supporting the book, with reference to all the elements that affect the generation and increase of reading habits, book consumption, which is based on..., because the counselor spoke of 13 aspects in relation to the impact of promoting reading, of promoting the book, which I will briefly recall, in his speech of 11 May 2018. He talked about these 13 guidelines, 13 aspects that influenced – which we thought was interesting, and they picked it up in a more general context; in addition to those 13 aspects there will surely be some more to work on – but they were interesting. as a key element of a plan to support reading and the book. We also say, in the compromise amendment, that the content of this plan must be a general content, open to all that is to analyze the situation of reading, the situation of the book, the identification of problems, the modes of cultural consumption in this area, and then, take action. But there are some issues that certainly need special work, and that is why we say... and on a proposal in addition to the parliamentary groups that have amended the original initiative, the motion that this parliamentarian presented in an absolutely constructive way, which has greatly facilitated the agreement..., because it was also said and specified that, in the content of the plan, we would have to take into account the impulse to an attractive and quality content supply, to all segments of the Basque citizenship; participation of the book-related sector and reading, a fundamental element. We founded the question to the Councilman on a document also, on a plan to promote books and reading, which had been drawn up by the Euskadi Book House, which grouped together bookstores, distributors, publishers, graphic arts specialized in the production of books. That is, in that sense, we connect issues that already exist, issues that private initiative or that bookstores and people who are dedicated to that world of reading work with what is public initiative. And in that sense, it was well that participation, which has to be of the plan, with the people who know that world as well. That is, we also know that there is a connection, we know that indeed... because we have recently also been meeting with the Chamber of the Book, and we have seen that the good thing is that there is an interconnection between public institutions and these private initiatives which, of course, are essential in a cultural activity, which is perhaps the most powerful, that of the book, that of reading, because it covers, of course, all the orders of life, as we recalled, the other day: cultural, educational, professional... I mean, in that sense I think it's fit. In other words, such participation by the sector is important. But it is also important, as we have acknowledged, to encourage reading in Basque and the special support for the book published in Basque and here in the Basque Country, to promote the social work of dynamic reading, as it was recalled, as well as to strengthen the services and resources of the Basque library network, to guarantee the rights of people with difficulties in reading and writing; that is, we must also bear in mind that there are these difficulties, that there are these problems and that the plan will have to take into account, and of course, as I recalled, the strengthening of the services and resources of the Basque library network as services closer and more accessible to citizens. Well, they're elements that are there. As I said, the plan for the promotion of the book and the reading that had been drafted by the Chamber of the Book of Euskadi said that it made this plan of its own, from its scope, available to society in the Basque Country and, of course, we picked it up in the inquiry that we put to the councillor, and now the Chamber is collecting it, urging the Government to a plan of its own, based also on actions. Things are actually being done: there are budgets for the promotion of reading; there are budgets for the promotion of editorials or literary production. Now we are going to make a plan, which will, of course, form a joint activity of all this, right? In other words, there are new paradigms in relation to reading and the book: not only the emergence of new technologies, but also the digital environment, aspects such as consumption habits. That is, there are social and cultural changes; there are a number of issues that are good to evaluate, good to see, to continue encouraging. Reading is the basic element of culture, of course, in our society, and the generation of these reading habits must continue to encourage it. Reading habits that have to do with the purchase of the book, with the consumption of books, with the promotion of book trade, with the support of booksellers and bookstores; that is, it is there. There are things, of course there are things. Apart from the private initiatives I was commenting on, there is an Euskadi Reader Plan, located in education. Logically, the plan we are talking about has to be a plan for society as a whole; there are important reports from the book sector, the Reading Observatory and the Book, a tool within the Reading Development Plan 2017-2020. That, I mean, at state level... But well, we have to do a job too, we have issues to walk on. The other day the counselor spoke... and that is why we gave importance to that and we have included it within the initiative, the motion, importance to a number of aspects, to a series of guidelines. He was talking about 13, probably they could be more, but in any case, it was framed, apart from education, the educational system, apart from training, for example, in relation to these issues that have to do with the reading habits of the teacher, because there are many other issues that have to do with the importance of digital content, with support for graphic literature, a very important element, support for writers, creation and editing, – well, that we have already said, is part of the priorities –; the Euskadi literary awards; the essential support for fairs – throughout our geography there are fairs around the book and reading and, of course, it is good to keep them, to guide and stimulate them and support them–; as we said before, the Euskadi network of libraries is a basic element; the analysis of the external markets and how they affect us, and the tools that have been put in place during all these years (eLiburutegia, Liburuklik, the Basque Digital Library) and, of course, all this framed in a permanent analysis. That is, that the plan to promote reading is something active, something alive, something that does not simply die with a plan of certain orientations or measures, but rather something dynamic and alive, and it is a plan of continuity of all this. That is to say, the document that was presented (which the Basque Book Chamber called the Basque Plan for the Promotion of the Book and Reading) spoke of many things: it spoke of many initiatives, of many support measures, of the book and of reading, of measures to support the promotion of reading; it also spoke of others that escape the field that is... of the fiscal sphere, for example, of measures to support publishing in the field of intellectual property, of anti-piracy measures – logically because other institutions are also affected – of measures to promote production and marketing, of measures to support bookstores... In other words, much can be done, work can be done; we have received and have seen that the Government is prepared to address this analysis: a plan to promote and support books and reading is needed; society and experts have noted this, and in this regard, we are satisfied with the agreement reached on this two-point compromise amendment. The agreement has been easy, and I thank the other groups for their positive contribution to this agreement in favour of the key cultural element in our society, which are reading and the book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun where we're supposed to be. As Mr Barrio has explained, it is up to us today to discuss a proposal from the People's Group on reading habits and the need for a plan from the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy to encourage and support the reading and consumption of books in our Community. A strategic plan that ensures equal access to culture for all citizens in the face of a new reality and adapts to both technological transformations and new needs and demands. The social and cultural changes in which the current Basque society is immersed draw us a new reality, which affects not only the productive processes, the media of publishing and reading, the distribution and sale of books, but also the profile of the cultural user, with new habits and ways of consuming culture. To deal with this new situation, from Elkarrekin We understand the need and urgency of a plan to promote book and reading, which is able to lay the foundations from interdepartmental collaboration and inter-institutional coordination, so that we are a formed society that values culture in its different forms of expression. It is essential that, in this plan, the different agents of the book sector, from graphic producers, publishers and distributors, to librarians, librarians and creators, cooperate and participate, with the aim of increasing reading habits and strengthening new marketing and consumer channels, which will lead to an increase in the number of readers in Euskadi. Reading is a basic tool in the learning and integral training of people; it is one of the cornerstones for the acquisition of knowledge. Reading, reading, is one of the best skills we can acquire; it will accompany us throughout our lives and allow us to acquire knowledge and understand the world and everything around us. Also that we can travel anywhere without moving anywhere or that we can be the person we want to be for a moment, and that is that reading opens doors to us, opens the doors of knowledge and gives wings to our inspiration and imagination. All that surrounds us is reading. Reading is communication, reading is essential to being connected to the world and to people. Without reading, we wouldn't know, we wouldn't have information and it would cost us more to imagine. Reading is essential and it is something that we must feed throughout our lives. Reading keeps us alive and connected; it makes us free and we can feel its benefits in multiple ways. Maria Moliner, in 1937, through a letter to rural librarians spoke of the capacity for spiritual improvement of people through the promotion of reading, and she was not lacking in reason. But what the librarian also did not know was that those same habits had such a healthy effect on the mind as on the physical. A study conducted at Yale University for 12 years with people over 50 years of age led to the conclusion that sitting in front of a book for at least half an hour a day gave a substantial survival advantage over those who didn't do it for a minute. More than three and a half hours of reading a week gave 23% less chances of dying; weighty argument to take seriously opening a book. There are neurological experiments that show that the simple fact of reading activates a recreation of what contains the pages: the most reader generates more connections because he has a greater number of virtual experiences. The contents of the pages do not cease to be social relationships between individuals, which in the long run one can find and which in their day will serve to detect and resolve a conflict more easily, to increase empathy and, above all, to fill us with experience. The freedom of the individual depends, to a large extent, on the possibilities of building new vital alternatives. To transform our sensitivity and thought, there is certainly no more suitable tool than reading. For this reason, we understand that the future Plan for the Support and Promotion of Reading and the Book must have as its main objective the increase of the reader demand through the promotion, extension and consolidation of the habit of reading. The book is an indispensable tool to transmit the set of human knowledge, to provide the citizens with the resources necessary for their personal development, to broaden their reality and transform it, and to increase their capacity for reflection, compression and criticism. In short, reading makes us more free. We therefore welcome the fact that we have reached the consensus of this House, with the compromise amendment that we have signed, so that the department headed by Mr Zupiria can present a plan which, after making a diagnosis of the situation in the book sector in our Community, focuses on the strategic axes on which the transformations in the book sector and bookstores are based, and can propose lines of action that guide the policies affecting the sector from different and complementary perspectives, such as cultural, educational or industrial. To this end, it is important that, in order to provide it with resources, its funding is included – and the amendment specifies this – in the 2019 budgets, as well as that of all the elements that form part of the plan. Of the 13 guidelines as fundamental axes of this plan described by Mr Zupiria on 11 May in the plenary session, we highlight a number of issues. For Elkarrekin We can, within this plan, the role of libraries is important, and it is necessary to activate the modernization and dynamism of the library network in a coordinated way, with its social fabric of proximity, including the updating of funds and the expansion of digital content, technological renewal, the training and development of library staff or the diversification of cultural and mediation activities programs. In addition, measures should be promoted to facilitate network coordination and access, as well as the creation of an open source public platform for the management of e-book lending and the creation of a single booklet for the whole network of public libraries in Euskadi. On the other hand, we also believe that support for bookstores and the creation of a label of cultural reference bookstores should be taken into account in order to contribute to the survival of this fundamental link in the book value chain, crucial in dealing with the reader and in preserving editorial diversity in the face of the monopolistic trend of large digital platforms; supporting small local commerce with the opening and reallocation of bookstores, incentives for investment, modernization of the sector, and prioritizing sales to public institutions; and including easy-to-read spaces in all public libraries to facilitate access to reading for all. In the latter part of our speech, we would also like to mention the importance of the gender perspective in the new plan to support and promote reading and books in the Basque Country. The world of book and reading is a very feminized sector. Internal data from companies show that the presence of women is up to 10% higher than that of men. However, again, 80% of top business positions are male. The gap must be eliminated, requiring wage transparency and equality in access to positions of responsibility, as well as equal participation in platforms for the dissemination and promotion of literature, since women earn only 20% of literary prizes, for example. Within the precariousness of the sector, women are the ones who suffer the most, because they graduate more than they do and enter to work in worse conditions. It's a profession that's feminizing and that's why young people are more women and are paid worse than before. To this end, we must count on the different groups working to eradicate inequality in the book sector, such as, for example, events, fairs and festivals where there are no women authors or interviewers and where, of course, the authors are given greater importance. For all this, and ultimately, culture and reading are a right that we have to guarantee to all people. We urge the department to present the plan to us in the coming months, so that, in Basquedi, reading and the book are educational and learning tools that lead us to inclusion, social cohesion, information and the transmission of information and knowledge, and support and promote their access, creation, distribution and consumption to strengthen our social and cultural diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Aguirre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u16	Eskerrik asko... Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Let me ask you something. there is no answer, but I think it may serve for reflection. And the question is: How many of you, at this moment, are you reading a book in eucalyptus? You don't have to answer that. But just listen a minute, okay? Well, me, I must confess, no. Last time I read, Eider Rodriguez's heart was too big. And if what the polls say is true, though we have the custom of reading from ten to seven of us, there is only one ten of them who reads it. That's reality, what different polls have made for each other, and what the Sociometers have done for the Cultural Department are about to teach. Brought to this parliament, according to my calculation, it's only eight of us, or we don't read it out, and if we don't read it regularly, of course, in this case, it's not for fun. It's a shame that the chief of the Cultural department isn't in education or economics. But, Mr. Erkoreka will pass the dump. We don't have any complaints this time. It's not your fault. I don't know if it's a question of guilt, but I know why. And if we do not read of the rest, there are so many reasons, and there will be so many solutions. We've just heard about these repairs from the Cultural Department, registered on 13 axiss, about the work that's been making fun of me. We must confess that the work is well done. The Basque People are therefore to be added to that which we bring from the gathering: it is that which has been received from those who love to read, and from those who love to read. And besides, we're not coming back, we're on the contrary: we have everything to win. There is nothing to be lost in this struggle, unfortunately or luckily we know it about! We think, therefore, that the Popular and EAJ proposes this plan for 2019, and we believe it agrees with the exact propositions we have brought here. We believe that among these proposals, the Library, for instance, the Digital Network, would have to be built together by the Books and School Library, in order that all books may be available to us. On the other hand, we believe that in the schoolculum, we should be able to read it, and give it a great deal of room. The professor has to be prepared all over the process of reading, starting from the magister school. Besides, even if it's an important school, to attract a taste for reading, especially an out-of-the-school... it is necessary to cultivate it, to cultivate the leisure of children: to read, as in sport, to show it to be diverting and amusing. it is necessary for the children not to be necessarily at the school. The book needs preparation, and we need campaigns that will take place in time: The book must be present in the media, as well as in the session received, but also in the digestives. The founders, of course, must be protected, and the publishing houses, but they must be encouraged, open, and revealed to the reader the work they do. The bookstores must be prepared, and our proposal is to create a stamp representing the quality of the drone. We must begin with all sorts of artifices to create and attract the readers, and now the Erkoek has also gone... I don't know who, you know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know. We think for the book is an industry, and requires a kind of treatment like any other industry. But we also believe that we must take care of the social area, because there is also a right to read. Many people have difficulty reading, for instance, those who have not been able to learn, those who have dislexia, the Down syndrome, and those who have mental illnesses, the immigrants who do not succeed in language. But these men, difficulty in reading, themselves love reading. And by the books published in easy reading parameters, this pleasure may be enjoyed. And more and more are the groups that unite to read books made in such parameters. For example, in Biscaia, in Araban and Gipuzia, there are already a group of 140; there are only eight books published in this format in eucalyptus, and only two for the children, and eight books are read soon. If we want to be the people who care for their associates, the Administration has to do this effort: More books have to be created and published in easy reading format, and here it belongs to the Administration to protect both the creators and the publishing houses, because they can't be otherwise. So there's something to be better, there's something to gain, and there's a lot of need for it. We shall be careful whether what has been agreed to happen to us today or not. Administration, as I have already observed, has a great interest in it, but it is also the duty of political parties, societies, families, and individuals. It's political, but it's personal. He said that promoting reading is a political commitment, but also personal, very personal, and as he said the other day in an interview Joseba Sarrionandia: "Sleep with a good book and, if not, with someone who has read it".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I share Mrs Agirre's quote and, in addition, part of the criticism, but not only the government is missing, but also many and many parliamentarians as soon as this point has begun. I do not know if it is only the habit of reading and reading, but, in general, how many of the people who share with me commission, culture, in general, despite what comes out later in the sociometers. I will not repeat what the conclusions have been, what the compromise amendment is. Indeed, it has been common for us to ask for a plan, a plan – I think that was also said by the spokesman for Podemos – to respond to all these social and cultural changes – as Mr Barrio also mentioned – and to focus on these new habits of reading consumption, in all the actions that we know must comply with a plan to promote reading, no. There is talk, and there is talk, and there is talk in the question to the counselor, about the strategies in favor of reading that must be taken into account, and that affect the bookstore, the bookstore, to give them support. There is also talk of promoting reading in education. We also talk about promoting reading in our homes and promoting reading in the political forces to which we belong, giving importance to an essential pillar such as culture. We also refer, in the compromise amendment, to those new paradigms and vertices that have been pointed out. School. Exquisite compliance with educational standards is necessary in order to lead to daily reading: this is basic in a promotion plan and must be fulfilled in Basque schools. The libraries. We must strengthen the resources and services of Basque libraries and, in addition, enable these resource centres in smaller municipalities that do not have a library. And finally, we have to make reference to the cloud; of course we will make reference to the cloud, but let us not fail to make reference, as Mrs Agirre said, to the personal, the family, the education of parents, mothers, cousins, friends, friends, to encourage reading. We want a Basque plan – then it will develop; we will all have the opportunity to study it and detail it – in accordance with these new paradigms, but let me point out some of the issues that, as a socialist, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to highlight: I've already said that, but I'm going to say it again on the subject of education. Not only must it be placed in the reader's plan, it must be complied with in schools and in the ikastolas, the compliance with the educational norms that establish the obligation to read daily, the impulse to read daily in both languages, and also the promotion, in particular, of the Basque language. Orientated and ordered access to books: access for children in our country must be equal in all municipalities, be more or less small, and in both languages. We must allow this access, as the spokesman for Podemos said, from citizenship on equal terms to books, in order to enjoy them. Then we talk – and we hope that this plan will deal with this – about cross-cutting measures in support of the book sector, in support of book publishing and in support of intellectual property and its protection, and also of bookstores, and here let me also make a mention made by Mrs Agirre: The libraries in the old format must support them so that such important training and consultation centres can be maintained always, but we also have to work on a new concept of bookstore, such as cultural space, of vision of culture, accessibility, of cultural agent of first order, that reaches not only some specific places, but also the streets where our young people, our young people and where all those people who have struggled to get close to the book and the habit of reading are moving. It's not just an economic space, a bookstore. A bookstore eventually becomes an element close to citizenship to get visibility and share that culture. Not only will you sell books, you will share culture and reading, both with the bookstore or bookstore as well as people, customers, customers there, the authors themselves now. That is why we believe that the plan to support bookshops and the measures that are set up are not only to support economically those who are experiencing difficulties – which are also – but that new concept, that new concept of bookshop. Yesterday Adolfo López Chocarro said it in El Diario Vasco In short, bookstores where not only books are sold, but they are known, shared and learned to enjoy the books. Many people say that this society is overstimulated. We have iPad, iPod, TV jet programs – with everyone's permission, there are them – or the telebassura call, and then we have the mobile phone that looks like a souvenir shop Do you really think that boys and girls, our young people, look attractive to read? Well, unfortunately, no. But neither children nor those who have ceased to be children. How do you want, how do we want – I will include – our children to read, if they have never seen us with a book in their hands and always with the mobile? If we want a future with people who have a reasonable cultural level, who are able to create, have their own ideas, to argue, to persuade, to be imaginative, to have their own thinking, please encourage reading. Both parents and educators have an obligation and responsibility to educate, not only in values, but in healthy behaviors for our children. Do not understand my intervention as a misunderstanding or a war against these technological advances. I believe that everyone has his or her role within the current society that we now enjoy; but, of all these advances, for me, none can afford the benefits of reading. Books help change attitudes, to dream, to travel, to create and to think, even to laugh, because there are also books that make you laugh. Reading is also related to trust, self-esteem and security. People with a cultural baggage are more prone to dialogue, understanding and listening, because it provides security, improves relationships and is a source of personal well-being. Therefore, apart from that plan, which I share, and the agreement reached, in which I thank the Mr Barrio's initiative, and then the contributions and generosity of the other groups. In addition, to engage children and elders in reading, let's talk about reading in positive terms, let's talk about the books we read, the stories of the characters, the intrigue or the love. Let's inculcate the habit of always reading and, above all, let us and we make the effort to read. I'm going to tell you one thing: there's nothing sadder than going into a house and not seeing a book. These houses depress me personally. It's one of the first things I look at and, besides, I tend immediately, when I see books, to touch them, to look at them and to admire the back. I love houses with books and I love places that give rise to it, all citizenship on equal terms, reading books, because I love reading and everything that gives me reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. FRAMEUR-ESECDERIO ISUSI I'm sure it's one of the goals of reading, along with the rentals and corporations. To do this, the creation of the contents of the reading, the rights of the intellectual property, and the electric firm must be protected. When we talk about reading, we must understand that we are not simply talking about the healthy, intellectual function of reading a book, of having a book in our hands, but we are also talking about everything behind the book; that is, the employment generated by the book, the companies behind it, the rights of the author, the designer, the bookstores, the printing press... A very important sector in Euskadi. That is to say, we are talking not only about how beautiful it is to read and how advisable it is to read, but also about an important sector that generates a lot of employment and is always behind it. I, as we are in full agreement between the five parties on this motion by Mr Barrio, am not going to talk about the 13 points of the Sailburu And it is also very good to remember it; that is, it is very good that we talk about a reading plan but it is also very good that we say how that reading incentive plan is now. There are also other elements as Rafi Romero said, perhaps more spiritual than material, rather than subsidies, but I think that, when the publishing sector and the book sector touches the door to the government, it asks little spiritual help and asks for enough material help, which is obviously what they want and what I am going to highlight now, so that we can see how, although we do not now have an indicative plan to promote reading, there is a very great activity on the part of the Council for Culture and Linguistic Policy when it comes to subsidizing all kinds of elements that are related to the book. On 2 May, an Order was adopted in the Governing Council regulating the granting of grants for the endowment and renovation of library funds integrated into the public reading network of Euskadi, which regulates for the year 18 the granting of grants for the endowment or renovation of library funds integrated into the public reading network in Euskadi, for an amount of EUR 670,000. Mention should also be made of the line of grants for the implementation and development of new technologies in public libraries, with a total of 350,000 euros. There are also grants for the promotion of the reading and use of public library services, worth 258,000 euros. Within the Basque Public Reading Network, in addition to the amounts we have mentioned above, 55,000 euros have also been addressed in terms of the purchase of licenses in 2017. Within the public network, the municipalities that form part of it, have contributed, for the renewal of funds, 2,320,000 euros: 618,000 for the implementation and development of the new technologies, and 4,021,000 euros for the promotion of reading. Therefore, the public reading network allocates more than 5 million annually to the promotion of reading and, by extension, to the book, edition, bookstores and the entire business world hanging from the book. From the Directorate for the Promotion of Culture, mention should be made of two lines: the subvention to literary editorial production, with a endowment in 2018 of 626,000 euros, and the literary prizes of Euskadi, which, as we know, have seven modalities: literature in Basque, literature in Spanish, children's and youth's literature in Basque, literary translation in Basque, illustration of literary works, essay in Basque and essay in Spanish, for an amount of 150,000 euros. It should also be noted that there is a call for aid for graphic creation for comics and illustrations, which in 2018 and 2019 represents an amount of 105,000 euros. Euro 110,000 is also given to the association of the Euskadi Chamber of Book, Euro 102,000 to the Euskadi Editors' Guild; the Euskadi Illustrators' Professional Association also has a grant of Euro 40,000, and also Euro 25,000 annually to the Euskadi Writers' Association. The Association of Editors in Basque Language has 60,000 euros per year, the Association of Writers in Basque Language has another 62,000, and also the Bilbao Risa Festival, which is also literary, has 75,000. Finally, we have the Azoka Duranguesa, which has a grant of 150.000 euros, and also from the Etxepare Institute there is a call for aid for literary translation of 39,000 euros and another for participation. in markets, trade fairs and professional events, of 90,000 euros, destined for audiovisual, music, performing arts and books. With this I want to demonstrate that, above and beyond the agreement that we have to make a plan to encourage reading, there is a reality, and that reality, of course, we cannot disregard it. I mean, we may not have a promotion plan, which is what the Culture Council has been asked to do, with the 13 points described by the Sailburu And I would be left with the last paragraph of the amendment we have had between the five parties, which I think is very interesting, when it speaks of the "fostering of social work to boost reading, as well as the guarantee of people with difficulties in reading and writing, and the reinforcement of the services and resources of the Basque Library Network, as services closer and more accessible to citizens". That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Is there someone who wants to participate in answering? Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote at the Basque Popular, together with Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, the middle-class correction that the Eucobertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u21	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parliamentary Group, in relation to the agreement given by the General Presidency of the State 2018. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Troubleon, representative of the EH Group, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. At the first meeting of this law, EAJ's candidate, Mr. Urkullu, made the values of President Aguirre for the new settlement. In his own words, he governed him by a strong program, and by the way of agreement, with a man on the axis: commitment to society. Yesterday to the popular Party of Madrid, Ciudadnos, PNV, UPN, Foro Asturias, Coalicion Canaria, and the budget supported by Nueva Canariah, are contrary to all these values: they are not strong to our people; they have no consent here, and are protected by a minority, who send men to a secondary level, and strengthen the balance of society. Dammage to Spain, no doubt, but also to this people. Yesterday EAJ supported the budgets of PP and Ciudadans in Madrid, although they were wanted here by a minority, although they had to eat everything they said, even though their candidates had to go against everything he had defended at the first meeting of the law. Let's take a look at the parts. The first axis here presented itself was to offer human development, socialization, equality, and public services. Quality services, limited public expense to 38%? This is lower than the European 5,4 points and social expense is even lower than 3.2 points. These are the budgets that do not guarantee the state of well-being, rights such as dependency or that of present and future pensioners. They continue to stifle the autonomy and social spending of local entities, and further impoverish the most disadvantaged. However, the Defence budget continues to increase: more than 10% in 2018. The budget for secret services also rises by 8%, and the budget for the Royal House increases for the second consecutive year. And I'm commenting, because approving that climb also means increasing your contribution via quota. He was telling us about the PNV on health infrastructure that day, and this week the counselor was demanding ownership of floors and buildings in several hospitals, but there's nothing like that about what they approved yesterday. The PNV spoke to us about scientific and research policy that day. Months ago we reminded Mr Urkullu that since 2012, since he is lehendakari, the percentage of R & D investment in this country, in relation to GDP, continued to fall, far from the 3% target. And one of those reasons is also in the budgets they approved yesterday in Madrid, because of what they approved last year only the 22% of the 453 million, to be used through the CDTI (the Centre for Industrial Technological Development). 5% of the EUR 1.2 billion for the fund for scientific research and technological development and the non-implementation of the heading of financial appropriations for research. For the sake of competition, those are figures that have an impact on us. We have a negative impact on universities, companies and R & D centres in this country. Madrid's budgets are always inflated and not implemented in items that also affect us. Of last year's R & D that you approved only 29,7 % was executed. We were also told that day by the PNV to demand the full management of benefits and social policies, as well as the management and competence of all benefits, allowances and non-contributory pensions managed by the State. But there's nothing they approved of yesterday, either. The interest of PP and EAJ to save the investments in Madrid was added, even as if the pensioner were an election trader, and as associated with the increase of the prices for the Consultum, as a matter of pension. It might be enough for a few people. We'll see. We'll see if that climb is enough, and we'll see if it will take the next few days. And thus even by these motives these few were obtained, not merely by the political will. We know that in the Basque Country, or very few, think that climb is enough, and we in the Basque Country know we'll see on Saturday what our pensioners really think about promotion, remembering also that in the other month. That's 10 euros more, including the other one. Twenty-seven thousand euscal pensioners who charge below 700 euros. And this is very rare! The proclamation of the platform of the pensioners here is clear: 1 080 euros. This yesterday didn't come to Madrid, and we'll tell EAJ again that there are conditions here to develop it, and that you've got EH Collect's hand open to you. If the PNV wants to be credible with pensions, let's agree here to shield those minimum pensions of 1,080 euros. And the way to get it is also simple: let's raise incomes. We also agree on a minimum salary of 1,200 euros, as set out in the Charter of Social Rights; because, according to our wealth data, if we look at our GDP data per capita Did you approve yesterday of the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage or the possibility of doing so here, where other conditions are given? No, right? Yesterday's budgets are anti-social ones, which point to the devaluation of wages and the precariousness of working conditions, and not to the budgets that this society does not deserve or want. We were also told that day about the PNV of a social pact for immigration, but yesterday they approved increases for the internment of migrants in transit and reduced resettlement and resettlement programmes for refugees. In the face of the humanitarian crisis that we are experiencing, that is the response that they approved and that, of course, also affects us. The second axis they presented that day was employment, economic recovery and sustainability. And it posed to us the PNV responsibility and fulfilment of the objective of public deficit, fiscal and financial policy in the service of growth and solidarity. Well, the basis of these budgets is the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, born from the counter-reform of article 135 of the Constitution. And I say counter-reform, because it is, of course, an instrument to govern against people and it involves a cut in rights to save the financial system. This year what they have approved establishes a 0% deficit for our municipalities, for all municipalities. Is it necessary to remember what the municipalities said already? Is it necessary to remember Eudel's report? The approved yesterday again supposes a twist of nut against them, and despite the shielding that may have assumed the Local Entities Act that we jointly approved, they know that it is not enough. Yesterday what was prioritized, of course, was not the interests of the citizens of this country. It is well known that the priority for the PNV is the high speed train and the completion of the "Y" Basque. What they approved yesterday raises an increase in investment in the high-speed train; but, if we look at the data for the 2017 financial year, also of the 400 million investments advertised by public enterprises for the Autonomous Community and Nafarroa, barely half were executed. Moreover, in the case of the high-speed train, the data is even more striking if it fits, because it does not run 57%. We were also told about the PNV on improving rail transport. And what have been the results of the budgets that you approved in 2017? What has happened to the plan to improve proximity, which obviously also affects us, when what is actually spent is very different from what was planned? We were also told that day the PNV of the integral and coordinated performance in ports and airports. But the possibility of establishing a coordinated and complementary management model for the airports of Loiu, Foronda and Hondarribia, as well as the transfer of ports, also had no place yesterday. We were asked by the PNV to promote a competitive low-carbon economy. In these budgets they do not bet on an energy transition either. They do not reach 6 % of the corresponding chapter. Keeps the sun tax By the way, the savings announced for companies in the electricity bill, which also agreed last year, did not occur either. The order that was published in December of electric tariffs, of course, was published without being eliminated, which was the way in which savings were to be produced for Basque companies. I guess this time you do, this time, what you're coming back to last year, the second time you buy, it's going to happen. I wish it did! One more fact: not only is the announcement not being fulfilled, but the expenditure which the Government plans to spend in the Community is still below what we have provided via quota. At that moment, too, the third axis which EAJ planned was to encourage human rights, and on this axis there is a policy of imprisonment. To protect the preliminarys, U.N. has insisted on keeping the current prison policy, and Rajoy has been engaged not to negotiate with the Basques and the Navarre Government. During this month, the government of the Basque and Navarre had proposed to the government of Spain to promote a series of laborers in prison policy, where the prisoners were the closest to their homes, or to apply legal orders to the sick prisoners with a humanitarian criteria. And in yesterday's budget, EAJ protected the agreement that shuts the door of the government's offer in the Basque and Navarre. I don't really know where she did that in the name of society. On this axis there was also memory: there is no money for memory in the budgets they received yesterday. Laugarren ardatza, Euskadirentzat self-government gehiago eta hobea lortzea, "more and better self-government," they told us. And the PNV proposed to us the completion of the outstanding transfers of the Statute of Gernika. We were told by the PNV not to negotiate budgets while 155 was maintained. Well, they've been negotiated; they've been voted on. We are told that they have voted for fear of what Citizens may suppose. But they voted in favour of the same policies that we supposedly have to fear. They said that voting yesterday was the best way for 155 to have an expiry date. I do not know if you have read the newspaper today, but today we have risen with a new attack on Catalonia. Because yesterday the PNV voted that the better way to avoid the policies of the People's Party and Citizens, against which we defend the right to decide, is to vote with the PP and Citizens to develop those same policies. This, of course, requires a master's degree in Metaphysics, as well as Cifuentes. There are two issues. One, to see how the PNV is going to explain the adoption of budgets that are not the ones that the Basque society needs or those that demand, how they approve as a party what that same party then denounces from the Basque institutions, subjected to a ceiling of expenditure imposed from Madrid, to a law of budgetary stability widely answered, to the limitation of the municipal autonomy implemented through the Law of Rationalization, which prevents them from responding to social needs, and that does not take into account a much healthier economic situation and prepared to assume the necessary greater investment in social spending. Yesterday's approval of these budgets has the support of a minority in this country: today they are going to remain in minority again, when they had the opportunity here to articulate large majorities, when they had the opportunity there to articulate large majorities in favour of those rights that we were told to defend in that first plenary. But I think it has become clear that these are bad and, moreover, unbelievable budgets. They are well aware that they ignore the recommendations of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. They know that they have an income forecast that is not going to happen, and they know that they have expenses that are not going to be implemented; therefore, their agreements are not credible either. Although this time, to be unbelievable, the PNV has taken its palm. The centralizing intentions of the People's and Citizens' Party are clear and diaphanous, as are their anti-democratic intentions with all those who defend the right to decide; the same as are clear and diaphanous their agreements with UPN so as not to change the revenge policies they have at the moment. What credibility does the PNV have right now? We will not negotiate with 155 in force; they have not deceived them to vote, they have not withdrawn them to vote. They said their vote is the best way to disable it and it's also going to be no, because today there's a new twist of nut. They say it's a good deal for pensioners: we'll also see what the pensioners and pensioners are saying this Saturday. The Lehendakari also said that the agreements with the People's Party have been good and that there will be more. He says he values stability, and they call for stability to austereicide, to increase inequality. They have given a white letter to a government that respects the current division of powers only when it interests it and that, far from maintaining an equal relationship with our institutions, it invades its powers by means of resources to the Constitutional Court, taking away from us what is ours, for then, through negotiation and when parliamentary arithmetic is not favorable to it, always returning a small It's part of what they've taken away from us, and it's also about marketing it. You answered yesterday the question of what type of Spanish state you are helping to set up. But there is another question, and it is: And here, what kind of town do we want here? Why have you accepted some funds that bring us but little, which diminish the rights of our townhouses, which are antisocial, which will not be filled? Is it worth while to lose credit for that, to say one thing and do another? Why have you turned your back here to change things? Here, there could have been opportunities to give this discussion and go on together, along the path we're doing in the Autogony, in memory and co-exist. Here are options to guarantee the pensions of $1,200. Here, there are options to decide. We have also the Presidents who have taken steps in this way: Aguirre, the high house, I'm sure. It's all right to take the yellow lacquer, but it's better not to take it because it's what it wants to be in Catalan. Yesterday, you chose Rajoy's route, not Aguirre's, if you know you're in the minority here today, it's a sad day, unfortunately, after many others.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u24	Thank you. Well, the charade is over. Yesterday, 23 May, Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party were pletorical, while the Euzkadi Buru Batzar defended the indefensible and lacked his word. Yesterday the People's Party and the PNV adopted general anti-social state budgets, which harm the social majority in Euskadi and throughout the state. The Basque Nationalist Party, I have already said, passed the election campaign telling us that it was far from this People's Party, that it was neither possible nor easy to understand with them. We were told that the People's Party was in a re-centralizing drift. Has the People's Party changed its drift, its policies? Once installed in the Basque Government, the idyll began, and has remained constant in what we are in the legislature. For the second consecutive year, the Basque Nationalist Party has supported the People's Party to implement its policies through general State budgets. This year, moreover, they do so by failing to take the floor not to support those budgets while the famous 155 was in force. It was his red line. And either I'm daltonic or the line wasn't so red. For our coalition, Mariano Rajoy's budgets were not acceptable either with 155 or without 155, because they are antisocial budgets that keep all the parameters emanating from neoliberal recipes at the service of capital. The 2017 budgets, also approved by the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, resulted in a drastic reduction of the deficit, at the cost of public services and social rights. The state, in the hands of the People's Party government, has been the champion of the European Union's fiscal and budgetary adjustment over the past few years, something that was not an exception in 2017 and will not be an exception in 2018. The Government of the People's Party focuses on reducing public deficits based on cutting, devaluing working conditions and dismantling the public: the prescriptions of capital. With the budgets for 2018, the government is once again reaffirming itself on the same political priorities, and I said this also in this plenary: who supports them, collaborates with these recipes. The erosion of the so-called welfare state resulting from cuts in the State's General Budgets over the past few years largely explains the current situation. According to the most recent Eurostat data, the State maintains a structural deficit with the eurozone in social protection close to 5% of GDP, and another year, the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party approve budgets that, far from reversing this situation, will further deepen it. With regard to public pension system benefits, the automatic and permanent non-indexing of updates to the CPI is consolidated; the loss of purchasing power from past years is not recovered, and 16,000 pensioners remain below the poverty line in Euskadi, while ignoring the causes of the problems of the public pension system, such as precarious work or low social security contributions, among others. Last year, the approval of the budgets of the People's Party was only possible thanks to the support of the PNV to them, something that the jeltzales had been denying would happen, and as I said once, there is the hemeroteca to check. The PNV not only ended up understanding the People's Party, but ended up being the assisted breathing that Mariano Rajoy's Executive needed so much to resist at a time when, without a sufficient majority in Congress and devastated by the brutal corruption of his party, he could not have resisted much more. A year later, we are faced with the same situation, with the worsening lack of the word given by the Basque Nationalist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party has bombed us with nothing to support the PP's budgets as long as 155 remains in force. It was his red line, a line that leaped into a red carpet to the Rajoys, Montoro, Cospedal and other figures. We asked you a few weeks ago in this House, the Basque Nationalist Party, what you would do once Article 155 on Catalan self-government ceased to apply. We ask him whether the application of Article 155, by abducting the Catalan self-government, was the only reason why the General Budgets of the State should be rejected, because, for our group, we already told him, of course, it was not the only reason. To us and most of Basque society, it seems to us that it was not the only reason: the antisocial policies of the People's Party seem to us to be reason enough to say no to those budgets. To our group, the application of the 155 also seemed to us to be a real misconception – we have said it on many occasions – but did the absence of the application of that article make the budgets of the People's Party better and could be supported? But it is that, finally, the Basque Nationalist Party has not had the dignity to reject them, even if it is simply to do his word. They've been approved with 155 on the move. They would have approved them with or without 155, because it was only an excuse to be able to justify their support, if the application of it were withdrawn. The truth, in our opinion, is that the PNV supports the budgets of the PP because they share an economic and social model. We ask you to tell the citizens of Euskadi openly. You share an economic and social model with the People's Party; it's okay: you support that model. What is not right to us is that you then victimize the attacks of the People's Party also on our society, attacks that you continually endorse. You are supporting the 37.5 hours of public administration workers and workers collected from those budgets, and then you tell the unions that the fault of not being able to respect the 35-hour agreements in Euskadi is exclusively from Madrid, which has nothing to do with this with you. You are accomplices to those issues and then you make the victims. That is, one of the spending policies that is significantly increasing in these budgets is, again, that of defence spending, and you are also complicit in those policies. The equalization of retirement for women domestic workers is delayed, a measure which they will also be complicit in and which runs counter to what we usually say here, the need for real equality between men and women as well. Moreover, it has already been said: of course, they are budgets that increase the endowments for the monarchy, for the Church, etc. The consequences of all these decisions on the living conditions of most of the population are, in our view, dramatic and supporting those budgets is to support those decisions. The Basque Nationalist Party knows that the people's second concern at the moment remains corruption, a non-exclusive mark of the People's Party, but that they seem to have patented them, the party that designs these budgets. And you don't even have to refer to Eduardo Zaplana. The current number two of Montoro, the number two in the design precisely of these budgets, has just been called upon to declare as investigated by alleged crimes of continued prevarication, misappropriation of public flows, coedho and traffic in influences. To support these budgets is to support these people. We believe that we should reject from the Basque Parliament budgets for the benefit of the elites, budgets against the working class and against pensioners. We think that this is the majority will of Basque citizens, and that is why we think that this should be included in this plenary, with today's vote. We say to the Basque Nationalist Party: you continue to support the People's Party; it is your legitimate decision, but then you do not sell our people a false confrontation with Mariano Rajoy's. Tell him clearly that they share the same socio-economic model, perhaps with different flags, but the same socio-economic model. That is why we think that, in fact, it has not cost you anything to reach an agreement, and that is why we think precisely that, even without having withdrawn the application of Article 155, you support the budgets because it was the only option that you valued, because they are budgets that you do well with, because they serve you to apply a socio-economic model that you share in the whole state and also in Euskadi, and because they also serve you to approve in Madrid cuts that you then sell here as you come alone from Madrid, with which you have nothing to do with and therefore tell Basque society that you are not to blame for the cuts that apply in Euskadi. You are complicit in all these policies, and it seems to us very good that the Basque Parliament clearly says that these general state budgets are bad for the whole state and are bad for Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u26	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today the socialists reiterate the position that we maintained and expressed a month ago, of rejection of general accounts of the State for 2018, accounts that consolidate inequality, because they do not reverse the reforms that have caused the impoverishment of a large part of the population, and that they also renounce to promote measures that guarantee the quality of employment, the shielding of public services and social rights and also renounce a new economic model. We reject the General Budgets of the State, also out of consistency with the agreement, here endorsed today a year and seven days ago, regarding the General Budgets of the State for 2017, an agreement defended by the socialists and which obtained the majority support of this House. Today we are going to talk about the budgetary content and the reasons for our rejection of those budgets. After listening to the spokesman of EH Bildu, we can confirm that. For some groups, the justification for this debate was not so much the budgetary content but the reproach for agreements that the parties adopt between them, agreements that from the discrepancy we must accept because they are legitimate. It is not uncommon here that the proponent group today of the Pact initiative in this House with the People's Party certain matters, and it is also not uncommon that the proponent group of today's Pact initiative with the PNV positions of maximum nationalists. And in one case or another, there are always arguments, always there are arguments to explain these agreements. And now, we will not fail to remember that two years ago in Madrid there was an opportunity to open the way for an alternative project to govern Spain, and that, with the exception of the Socialist Group, all the parties represented here decided in the Congress of Deputies not to venture into these changes and preferred to maintain the already known path of Rajoy. There are those who have publicly acknowledged that this was a mistake, and it is not a matter of anyone here today getting flagged, but let us socialists say that "of those dusts these muds". And today's debate, that of the rejection of the Rajoy government's budget project for 2018, is also a consequence of that decision and of all the Basque parliamentary groups that we have positioned ourselves in the debate – some before others, it is true – and that ended yesterday. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has maintained its position to amend the entire budget for 2018, taking into account exclusively the common interest of all Spanish citizens, against those who have wanted to set a rejection according to the interests of Catalan independenceists. Before and after Torra, his appointment and his decisions, the Socialist Party has opposed accounts that blackmail and humiliate pensioners because they have been used as a commodity in political negotiation. It has opposed the commitments made to women in the State Pact against Gender Violence, and because they are accounts that are forgotten about the social recovery of the country, without which we will never be able to consider that we have emerged from the crisis. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Basque Socialists defend, from respect for singularities, solidarity with the rest of the territories of the State. The Basque Socialists and the Basque Socialists do not understand the progress of Euskadi, without sharing it with the progress of other peoples: each autonomous community with its uniqueness but with the shared objective of a common project. And these budgets are detrimental to that common project, because they do not promote a solidarity system, which welcomes the way in which we have decided to organize ourselves in the plurality of the State. A common project that needs, in addition to a recovery, without further delay, of the great pacts on which a social state is based. It needs to recover the labour rights that were abolished seven years ago; it needs to re-guarante the right to universal health, which was laminated with medicine six years ago; it needs to recover the large consensus on the public pension system that was repealed by decree five years ago; it needs to put women, their full freedom, their equality, at the forefront, after being gradually relegated with different rules imposed at the time of the absolute majority. We have accumulated the reasons for rejecting these budgets, also as Basques and Basques, because we feel directly concerned and we also feel blackmailed. In recent months, it has been found that the Rajoy government has kidnapped the demand of 9 million pensioners in Spain, and half a million pensioners in Euskadi, claiming lack of resources: a lack of resources of 1.5 billion euros to update pensions in 2018 and 1.8 billion euros to update them in 2019, which magically – by magic – tell us now that these resources will be available. Although, with the usual transparency of the People's Party, no one explains to either the pensioners or the citizens where these resources are going to be obtained, because, with the taxation of large technology companies that seem to be what the People's Party is proposing to obtain resources in the Toledo Pact, 1.2 billion euros are still missing and they also have... They have been hit by the European Commission which exceeds the deficit limit. No one has explained how, all of a sudden, what was previously impossible was possible, in response to the demand of society and the majority of the Congress of Deputies. But the most serious thing for socialists is not that the PP is not created or not created in the public pension system, the worst thing is that it strives to prove it, it strives to prove it, and it shows it on any occasion that the article 50 of the Spanish Constitution on the economic sufficiency of the elderly is third and jumps to the torera. And so, we repeat: the future of the public pension system in Spain does not depend on the future of Rajoy's general budgets or future; the future of the public pension system in Spain depends on the repeal of the law imposed in 2013 by the absolute majority of the People's Party. Because, if the regulatory framework is maintained, by 2023 pensioners will lose 11% of their purchasing power. The future of decent pensions depends on repealing the discounting of increases by 0.25 % forever, not in two years, and linking them to the CPI, which was originally established by law, a law that had been agreed between different parties at the previous stage. The future of decent pensions depends on the repeal of the sustainability factor invented to burden the public pension system and thus favour a private savings system, which leads us to the dual retirement system: that of pensioners, in their minority, with potential and pensioners, mostly poor. These budgets leave Spain as the most unequal country in Europe, a country where 20% with more income has seven times more than the EU average. 20% less income has. It wants Spain to be 38%, Spain where social and productive expenditure is falling to 38%. The budgets do not entail any derogation, change or modification of labour reform. They propose a jibarized social state, and we reject these budgets also for solidarity with other peoples of Spain, whose self-government does not allow them to carry out actions such as those that we have established in Euskadi, when we take care to compensate for the medication, when we take care to guarantee the right to housing, when we take care to guarantee a social protection network for those without income. In Euskadi, we assume our responsibilities by fulfilling our competence. It is a matter of the Rajoy Government assuming its own at once, and in these budgets it does not. And it doesn't because it has never been believed about the state of well-being, and in fact, we referred to the tests: they had a plan to dismantle one of the pillars of the state of well-being, that of public health. But also public education, social services and social security, mainly public pensions. And neither do they have a future project as evidenced by their scarring with investments in research and innovation. And the Socialists understand that this strategy against the state of well-being and the lack of a future project is what reflects these accounts that we reject today. And that is the reason for this rejection, that none of the economic improvements that advertise us translates into improvements for the majority of the population. Socialists are convinced that the times of greatest progress for Spain and for Euskadi have taken place when economic growth has been boosted, but there has also been a fair sharing of that economic growth at the same time. And since we believe that this does not happen with the General Budgets of the State, that is why we do not support them. This is a position, that of the PSOE and that of the Basque Socialists, a position we had before Montoro announced the budgets for 2018. Mr Rajoy's Government, the People's Party Government, has not given us socialists a single reason to change that position. And it's a decision we made without having to wait for Mr. Puigdemont to decide. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Passing to the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not know whether this is an absurd debate or not; but, by reminding you: the budgets you approved yesterday. Let them come and tell us that you voted against or disagreed, we already knew that. I can understand that the spokesmen who preceded me did not like the intervention of their spokesmen in Congress, think that they could have done better and then bring us this point today to finally show us why they were opposed to the approval of these budgets. Anyway, I do mean a few little things. The budgets that were approved yesterday respond to two variables: negotiation and economic recovery, achieved despite the three groups that have intervened before in this forum. And these are budgets that have called them antisocial, I suppose because it makes them ashamed to talk about what is coming in the budgets, which are the most social that a Spanish government has ever had, Mrs Corcuera; which are budgets that improve pensions, that extend paternity leave for officials, that improve salaries, that increase the funding of the autonomous communities, those where you govern, and I have not heard them say anything, and that increase investments by 17%. And it is a budget that responds, I said, to agreements. It responds to the agreement with social partners and civil servants' unions, and collects the increases that were agreed there. It collects the agreement of the state pact with all these groups that so much say they are antisocial, true, and equips against gender-based violence in more than 200 million planned, more, Mrs Corcuera, more than 200 million expected in that... Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm telling you because you keep repeating that money's missing... More than 200 million planned! It responds to the pact with the autonomous communities where PSOE, Podemos and Citizens govern. And the financing of the autonomous communities is increased by more than €4 billion, which is not a small amount. And it responds to a political pact between seven different political parties. It is therefore a budget in which many people have worked, and it is a budget in which more than 260 amendments have been adopted in the process of amendments to the Congress of Deputies, of many groups. It is a budget that responds to agreements, which, by the way, shows that Mr Rajoy has enough waist to negotiate with trade unions, with all the groups in Congress, with the autonomous communities and with six other parties. Something, I say it will have done well enough. So, Mrs. Corcuera, you tell us, "Don't reverse the reforms." Let's see, budget laws are laws for a year, in some cases with spending forecasts... You present the modification of the reforms you want in the Congress of Deputies: you can do so. "Doesn't change the pattern of economic growth." What do you mean, it doesn't change it? Not this Budget Act, not all previous reforms, yes. Or do you not remember what the growth model was at the time of the Socialist Party? Wasn't that the one from the house? Wasn't that Spain's growth model, that of housing? Isn't that exactly why everything went to waste? What is the growth model of Spain in the Last few years? No, no... What is it, the one in the house? No, no... It's the one about exports. The one about exports. See if the growth model has changed, and see if jobs have been created. And if we follow a little longer, a few more years, we will exceed 20 million workers. And he says, "And women relegated." Hey, you: there have never been as many women working as they are today, randomly ruling the People's Party, not the Socialist Party. What do you want me to say? It's data. It's data! And, man, I understand that he's very upset about pensions: "It's that pensions go up, but it's a deception to pensions and they don't tell us where the money comes from." And I'm sorry, because, if you had been in the Congress of Deputies, perhaps you would have listened, or not, to Mr Montoro, when he gave this data on Monday, last Monday. And what did Mr. Montoro tell all the groups that were there? That, when the expenditure ceiling was approved last year, the collection forecast was 6% higher, than in April, although the data were not official, but were already ahead of you, the collection was increasing by more than 6.7%, and that, as you can see, the tax inspection works so well, that the increase was 15% in the first four months of this year. What do you mean, concealing the accounts and not explaining where the money comes from? Yes, it does, but you have to want to listen, listen, see the numbers, do them... And, man, the pensioners and the purchasing power... Look, the pensioners in Spain have only lost purchasing power once, ruling the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which froze the pensions having the fund full, and it was a political decision, to square with the pension money other expenses. Yes, yes... Yes, yes... because, since governing the People's Party, they have not lost a single year of purchasing power, it has increased. And now he's gonna... I'm sorry, I'm sorry it bothers you, I feel it bothers you, because I already know that there are games here that they would like the worse things were, the better for them. I'm sorry to bother you that the lower pensions are going to rise by 3%. I'm sorry that it bothers you so much that widows' pensions are up 7.7%, I'm sorry, because I know you would have preferred nothing to go up, so that you could face the People's Party with what it does. Well, look, we're doing the opposite of what you did, you see: you go up pensions, you're guaranteed, you work more people, and probably next year you're starting to overwrite the pension system, if things keep going the way they're going. And then it comes to us saying that we had a plan to dismantle the state of social welfare, health, education... I don't know where you read that plan, but casually it has never been spent in Spain so much on health, it has never been spent so much on education. The People's Party is the only one that guarantees the state of social welfare in Spain. And you know what I'm saying? That the Spaniards know, because every time you rule and take the country to the brink of ruin, you call the People's Party to solve it. And it happened with Felipe González and it happened with Mr Zapatero, because they know who manages well and who pulls the chestnuts out of the fire, and who are a handful, I think he came to call them at some point Mr Montoro, that little boy who apparently hides the data and who explains it to you in the Congress of Deputies and you don't know, but you could pay a little attention to him, because maybe that's how you learned something. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but the officials are going to charge more. I know you'd like to freeze the rise in civil servants' salaries... You are going to be able to charge more, Mrs Corcuera, and you are going to be able to pay more because I believe that you are ruling in the Basque Government, although I do not see any of the socialist advisers, right. They will be able to apply this salary increase to the officials of the Basque Country, because there are these budgets. Because, if not, they couldn't do it, and you should be happy. Man, there is a paradox here: that those who vote against are actually happy that there are budgets, and some of those who voted in favour, I saw them leaving Congress yesterday and they had a face that looked like a funeral, but well, they are the paradoxes that politics is producing these days, no, and we see strange, rare, counterposed agreements and we are at an economic moment, coming out, little by little, of the crisis we were in. We are doing well, Spain and the Basque Country, but we run risks, because stability, stability, in addition to budget, has to be political, because, if there is no political stability, in the end there is no stability of any kind, and investments obviously suffer. And it is very good to support the Budgets of the Government of Spain because they are good for the Spaniards and the Basques, but nevertheless, they put at risk the growth model and stability other agreements that take place in this Parliament, in particular in a presentation called self-government, which obviously light all the red lights, like the one that has turned on me now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u29	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u30	Good morning, everyone. After reading the other proposal as a April 27th, one apprehends the intention, the right intention. And if that were not a small one today, that corridor-bound media confirmed it: the impression and intention. I mean, we're talking about state budgets, there's no propos against purpose, there's no... I know that human rights, social rights, and pensions affect us, but it is a matter of its own, I mean, which either you place in a country or in a jurisdiction. It's gone! And there's no yellow whip on the proposition, because it's your intention to get a signature on that one that protects 155, the socialist. In fact, that's the game. It's so simple. Why does it disappear? There is no mention here, no Catalonia, no 155; nothing is mentioned. Why? Because you need Socialists' vote, you need a beating right away, and you're gonna give it to M.M. or the P.V. That's the intention. Which obliges you to write a debate in very Spanish records. Marian Beitilian did the same thing yesterday; it was the forum. Now, if PNV is to be criticised, it is politically that he has not kept his promise, and we may discuss these matters, well, but we may not bring the debate here. And don't use it here to kick the shit out of me. The Socialists' position is about 155. I don't know what he's talking to me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u31	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u32	But what I see is there's such a disease. I don't know how to call it a disease, but there's a PNV independence at the time of making a policy. And be free, free, free proposition, whatever you like, but continuing PNV's track is not always bad, but the prosecution of PNV every hour, every day, every day, show you can do something else, even in politics. Why, I say so, I say yes, and by autocritics, we have not kept our promise. It's true. We forced ourselves, we did, until 155 wasn't turned off, we wouldn't have approved any budget. That was publicly and loudly said. No one else has. You didn't do it. And the Podemos are even less. PNV has assigned himself this condition: As long as he doesn't turn off, we won't protect the bets. And that's where we've been. It's been an effort. Total effort, limited power. We didn't make it, we didn't get it off. I don't know when. Some people say it's going to turn off immediately, but we didn't. And we conditioned ourselves. If it is necessary to confess it, we confess it. That's our sin. That's our fault. But no one else has, no one else has... Can it be explained? Can it be just? I think so, because there were reasons and there are. And you will remember that at the time when the corrections of the whole were to be discussed, E.g. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. One. How many did you get? Half of it? Four? Or five? One of them, to KPI, was to be introduced, and the Popular Party accepted, and the debate began. Our fault, what was it? Now, when you start to negotiate, the negotiation is going on, and because the other variable is not properly measured, or because our forces are not as much as we think, as our efforts are limited but our power. And that's politics. And we must explain it. But it may be a way of explaining, for I have spoken to other people in the country, and, well, I'll talk to them on the side. When the treaty is known, we shall see, when it is 155, when it is considered, what I would have done, the proposition will follow, whether games which have been won by parts, lands, or villages, nominals, or non-nominals, at the first point on the left bank, we have discussed economic commitments, in the townships, in the townships, or in the principal assemblies of the country... We will either bring them to this law, or we will bring them to the law. You didn't say much about it. So let's figure out what's done, so that people can say: "Hey, from the pension, hey, what you got is no good." Why look at the changes that can be made from the resurrection of KPI that the minimum pension must be brought back to 1.080 at this moment. We argued that, but what did we decide on the 1st of March? PNV put it on the table. Therefore, when I say that we have not kept our promise, we have not measured [it] according to rights, when no one forced us. Nobody! The Catalan themselves told us and they tell us to keep on working last night. They do not see our decision or whatever it may be as treason. And we confess that we have made all our efforts, and that we have not attained them, and perhaps we might have done so much as few or few of those which we have acquired by division or step by step, either by the side of the road, or by any means attained or brought nothing, or whatever. But we tried. Then it's a different thing with which to deal. The Popular Party wasn't chosen by us, e. Popular Party and other Rajoy voted, we voted against it. And that an alternative was possible, you know better than I, and that the calculations of the Podemos and the strategicities produced it, and that we have always been able to defend ourselves from the Basque institutions, from institutions, from institutions, from associations, for those who demonstrate their path from associations. PNV negotiates nothing for him. From the hands of such proposals as this legislature solves, and from the rest of the institutions, he works these proposals which are almost possible to be true. The rest, too, as has been mentioned, prison policy, when it comes to it, otherwise we have a perspective and we like to be nice about these matters. How easy it would be to say in reply: "Hey, you open the door and I'll go after you." The Jéltarian Party doesn't tell anyone to do that. If he can, he tries to open those doors and change politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. problemon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u34	Yes, thank you. Mr Damborenea, I, when you go out, take notes in addition, especially in the part that has to do with the permanent threats or warnings that you dedicate here to the Basque Nationalist Party. I even remember – and it's not you anymore – when Mr. Joseba Egibar here was also talking about not going to approve the budgets with 155 and the warning he gave Alfonso Alonso. In this case, it was not a threat, but at the time. Time, of course, has given Mr Alfonso Alonso the reason. Things like they are! However, in the People's Party there is also a big difference between what it says – and, from Then, it doesn't meet the budgets it says – and what it does. Today we have just heard that the People's Party has just been involved, in a lucrative way, in Box B, with the condemnation of Mr Bárcenas, 30 years old. That's what you guys do, too. Mr. Egibar, confessing you didn't keep your word... In a word it is like gravity: a thing which is self-evident. It's kind of nice, but it's efficient. If you've arranged not to negotiate when 155 was in force, it's obvious you haven't done it. Well, it's kind of nice of you to admit it, but it was pretty obvious. And you said that almost more important thing about us than anything else is that you put it up as a condition and that that's a value. Well, there's a value if it's on condition and it's done. It's worth a little while when it's not loaded, don't you think? And it's very important that you keep your word. I don't have a long career in politics, and then maybe it's easier to say what I'm going to say, but I think I should keep my word. We kept our word for the Gasteo. We agreed that we would do everything we could to remove the popular Party from the Gasteize City Hall, and we didn't choose the popular Party either. And that's why you asked for mayorhood with the third force? We did. I think it's very interesting to obey the word, and I also believe that we did a journey here and there, too, requires you to do this day: for us the politics of the Popula are hurtful to us, and because we have it so clearly that we have offered to work together again and again. It's very interesting to put the conditions together, when they're filled up, not to be wasted. Porque la cuestion es a qué se le prerency: a cumplior la palabra o a no hacerlo. You have also said here that you are going to tell people everything you have achieved. And you're gonna tell them everything they haven't gotten, too? Are you going to tell them both? Because precisely here in the 15 minutes I have had of exposure, I have compared precisely what the PNV said for this legislature – not for others – and everything that has not been achieved in that PNV agreement yesterday. Anything you don't. Porque cuando thought that the tambiés will not be affected here. That's right... With that I was astonished: that is to say, not to see the water at any time, because the fish are in the water. Really, the Spanish budget doesn't affect us? Bale, just like gaizki-ulertzea izan da, batha... Balle, balle. Gaizki-ulertzea baldin bada, azaltzeko aukera izango duzu. Ez went horretan... Ez of the Egyptian demagogy. Just as gaizki-ulertze kontua izan da; bath, jakina, han erabakitzen den guztiak eragin zuzena daukala. I mean, spending ceiling, interprofessional minimum wage, social security conditions... I mean... That they don't affect us? Okay. He will, of course, explain what he meant by that. You also said that Catalan told you to follow what you're doing. Well, some of you have been told that, some of you might be different... what he had. Of course we should keep going. For I don't know whether we'll doubt it because 155a, desde luego, no un unexustiv de menor trascendencia, y en eso creo que statusos de auerdo. It is something that the People's Party has done with the agreement of Citizens and the PSOE, and also with the complicity of certain State apparatuses. It marks a whole state strategy that will go against us: suppress autonomy; suppress a legitimately elected and constituted government and parliament; intervene and dominate budgets; eliminate policies and projects... What's the cost going to be, too? Because, when we're talking here about going people to people to tell what they've achieved, are they going to give them a calculus of what 155 is assuming to Catalonia? Are we also going to do a calculation of the effect that 155 is having on us? And that's the part we came to tell here. When you have approved budgets that are bad, when you say you have achieved things, there is a part that the state necessarily has to give to all the autonomous communities. And as far as we're concerned, there's a part of infrastructure, there's a part of R & D+i, there's a part that we're responsible for: getting it isn't something that's being negotiated; it's something that has to be de facto. And you come back to a minority agreement, here is a minority what you two represent, a minority, moreover, with a party that is a permanent threat to everything we want to develop here. And of course, and to conclude, when you have raised, as I have put it, what this Government, the Basque Government, together with the Government of Nafarroa, had proposed to the Government of Madrid and you know that you are voting yesterday to leave it out, I am telling you what you have proposed not what we have told you anyone, but what in Bertiz the lehendakari Urkullu, along with the lehendakari Uxue Barkos, said that it wanted to be done. And what they have said is what you voted for, when you shut the door on him. That's what I told you: that's the condition I had put UPN for budgets; your vote with UPN is to support Rajoy does not do anything at all. They're in a minority, it's a bad deal, they don't keep the word: that's yesterday's result.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u36	General State budgets, which obviously affect us. And in what way, we have already said it once, we have already told the Basque Nationalist Party once: the General Budgets of the State, we like it more or less, are Basque agendas. And what is not worth telling us at the same time, to the citizens of Euskadi, that you approve budgets because you supposedly bring good things for Euskadi that the Basque Nationalist Party has achieved in a negotiation, of which it will already teach us point by point and of which Mr Egibar until just now, when we agreed on the radio, told me that there was no negotiation. And at the same time, tell us that that's a Madrid thing, that it's not strictly Basque. There is a contradiction there. We continue to argue that the General Budgets of the State are also a Basque agenda. And what do we care about them? That affect us the citizens of Euskadi. And we are also concerned about how they affect the citizens of other peoples and nations of the Spanish State. We're worried! And it's true. I believe that Mr Damborenea said that some groups have taken advantage of the debate to make criticisms – or no, Mrs Corcuera said, if I do not I am mistaken – about the agreements that have been reached. Of course, if we do not agree with those budgets and they seem to us, as we have said, antisocial and they seem to us to be negative, and they have been possible on the basis of agreements, we come here to criticize those agreements. And more so when, in these agreements signed with the People's Party, one of the signatories is the main party of the Basque Government and the Basque party with the highest number of votes, with the highest presence in this House. Of course we come to reproach them for that, of course we do. Because to us, as I have already said on more than one occasion, it seems absolutely legitimate for this House to stand on these kinds of issues and to endorse what we believe is the majority opinion of Basque society, which rejects this agreement, because it makes it possible for the general budgets of the State with which we mostly disagree. Mr Egibar said that Elkarrekin Podemos has not even raised his objection to the budgets on the basis that 155 was in operation. Of course not, it's just that we went more there. We said that we were not going to support those budgets, and we said that from the beginning, neither with 155 nor without 155. We have never agreed to the application of 155, and you know it well. But what we have said, and constantly in this House too, is that we do not like the budgets of the People's Party, we do not agree with them, they are anti-social and, therefore, we think that they should be rejected, that 155 is in place or that it is not in place. And we sincerely believe that the subject of raising pensions to the CPI in two years is a real deception for society, and I do not want to go out with the agreement of 1 March where one of the points, in fact, was that pensions were updated according to the CPI, because that is what you and they have used to climb them two years and tell the people that we have already fulfilled, and also with other elements. And, therefore, to us that seems quite wrong, and that is a deception to the people and, moreover, it will surely imply something else, which also implies a breach of that agreement of 1 March: what will happen to the reserve fund? Because that agreement of 1 March also referred to the fact that the use of the reserve fund in the terms on which it is being used should be terminated. Therefore, it seems to us, as I said before, that the Basque Nationalist Party supports these budgets because they give them political revenues, or he believes they will give him political revenues, not because he will get something for him in the sense that they will give something to the Basque Nationalist Party. We already know that they will not fix the facade of the headquarters in Bilbao, because, moreover, they certainly do not need it. But we think that this allows you, first of all, as I said, to adopt budgets that go to a socio-economic model that you share and, therefore, that for you there is no problem or contradiction. Secondly, it allows a number of cuts and limitations to continue to be implemented through the General Budgets of the State, which will then affect us in Euskadi and which, when you come here, you will say and tell, for example, the unions, that it is Madrid's fault, that it is the Spanish State's fault. All right, tell them too that you are responsible for those limitations that are approved throughout the State, which are approved in the Congress of Deputies. I set the example of 37.5 hours, because yesterday we saw it in committee and it came from the LAB union, and I said to them, "Now, this is going to be approved again this afternoon in the State General Budgets, and the Basque Nationalist Party is going to approve it; it has not tabled any amendments, we do present one." And then they will tell the unions, when they come to appear, as they have already done on more than one occasion, that they cannot comply with the 35-hour agreement, because Madrid and the People's Party are preventing it. And it is true, Madrid and the People's Party prevent it, but with their support and collaboration. And the same thing happens... They will tell the same thing to women domestic workers, when they come to the committee to tell what has happened with the equalization of pensions, that it will be extended five years later in time. And you will tell us, and the incumbent parliamentarian who touches the Basque Nationalist Party in this debate will tell us that this is a debate that you do not have to bring to this House, because it is a thing of Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u37	Finish up, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u38	For that seems to us to be a part of those policies. And that is why we believe it is good for Parliament to reject it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Corcuera, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u40	Yes, thank you, President. Why do we Socialists reject the General Budgets of the State and believe that it is also good to do so in this House because we are Basque and Spanish citizens too, Mr Damborenea? And we are against pensions being one of the goods in political negotiation. Look, Mr Rajoy said on May 10 of this year, 2018: "In 2013 we said that pensions should not go up according to the CPI" and I believe so, and I believe so. And you, Mr Damborenea, are cheating, because you know perfectly well that in the matter of pensions and their revaluation and updating, the data you have given are not certain. See, between 2004 and September 2011, the minimum retirement pension at age 65 was increased by 50.8% for dependent spouses, forgiveness, dependent spouses, and by 36% for those who did not. In that period, inflation accumulated was 22.8. That means: minimum pensions gained purchasing power and exceeded 28 and 13 percentage points, respectively, to the price index. In the period prior to 2004, during Aznar's two terms, minimum retirement pensions grew by 3.7% by the People's Party, with an average of just 7 tenths more per year than the average CPI, while with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party they increased on average to almost 7% for pensioners over 65 years of age, depending on dependent spouse and 5% for those who did not. In the period after 2011, during the Rajoy governments, as you have melted the pension huts, which already has to say what you have said that we have melted the pension hut, if we leave it with 76,000 million euros, 76,000 euros. Have we emptied the pension box? Come on, Mr. Damborenea, please, let's see if we put on a little bit of batteries and say things, at least, as they are. The Basque Socialists, if we are against, Mr Damborenea, of the General Budgets of the State for 2018 – in particular, with what you propose of economic growth – is because we do not agree that this economic growth is based, as it did at the time, on the subject of abolishing the cession of 10% of soils for the municipalities. We're against the real estate bubble, which was also his thing, eh. We don't take that backpack, you take it. Yes, do not make gestures to me, because it is so; we all have memory, luckily or unfortunately, the age is what it is, that one is also doing a little bit of history. These budgets, Mr Damborenea, are the least social since 2009, in their relation to the consumer price index, on the subject of priority spending and its weight in budgets, if you compare them in terms of prices or also in terms of national income or gross domestic product. As you want to compare them, these budgets have been the least social since 2009. The only change in growth model given by Mr Rajoy, by Mr Montoro, is based on increasing inequality in order to be competitive. Economic growth and competitiveness are always financed through inequality; they did so in 2017, and these 2018 budgets continue to do so. GDP, Mr Damborenea, has been recovering for 10 years; however, public services are not recovering in the State's general budgets. For the People's Party, economic growth is only possible with more inequality. What Rajoy, Montoro and the PP call wasteful and drunken public spending, the socialists call it inclusive growth, an inclusive growth needed to have a worthy country. And for national dignity and social justice to exist, fiscal justice is also needed, and these budgets neither guarantee nor promote fiscal justice. The People's Party continues to pose that famous saying of "the worse, the better" and what is more serious, what Mr. Rajoy said on June 13, 2017, "the worse, the better for everyone, and the worse for everyone, the better. Better for me and its political benefit," as I read it. I draw two conclusions from this debate. One: that every time the nationalist parties, both Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, have conditioned a budgetary negotiation with article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, they have entered into a garden from which they have left behind, because they have not managed to lift the application of 155 and, however, they have confluenced the two and have agreed to defend the interests of Spain and its citizens, one with the amendment, others with the General Budgets of the State. And I regret, I regret that these budgets assume that the anti-social policies that the PP has been putting forward for many years will not be corrected. And worse, inequality continues to be consolidated in Spain and in Euskadi. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u42	Mrs. Larion, we don't threaten. We've never done it. Now, I can understand that in the group you're in, you're used to that and you know better than I do what I'm talking about. Man, don't tell me there are things that have to be incorporated into budgets because they do. But if they don't approve, they're not. Of course, if they are not approved, they are not; although they had to be included. But if there are no budgets, there are no budgets. It tells us that we are a permanent threat to everything you want to do here. If that's what they agreed the other day, yes; permanent threat, no. Make sure it's not going to happen. That is what we are, so that what the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu agreed the other day will never come into effect, applying the rules, the laws, which is the foundation of democracy. Elkarrekin Podemos tells us that pension and CPI is a deception. Man, when pensioners and widows get the pension, we'll see if it's a trick up, or it's a trick up his speech. Of course... Mrs. Corcuera, and Mr. Zapatero broke his bubble in the seventh year. Seven years he's been ruling. And you know why he didn't rule the eighth? Because he took and said, "Wow, advance elections and I'm leaving and here he left the cake." Why did you advance the election? Why did he leave? And the bubble blew out. And what you call growth – how did I said?– "induced", rather than economic waste, so if all the measures it took were wasteful after wasteful, after wasteful, including what was given to the municipalities. It was a waste of time. And the baby check, another waste. It blew up in the seventh year, so, plof, and said, "Wow, I'm leaving." And he dissolved Congress and called elections, because he didn't know what to do. The socialists, so brilliant and so many formulas that you have to solve people's problems, because they led the country into chaos and left. And don't come looking for excuses why you are against these budgets, because in your first speech you told me that before Mr Montoro introduced you, you were against it. Therefore, you don't need to look for more arguments, which you have for us. Moreover, you have lost an opportunity, in front of all the Spaniards, to be able to do things right, to be able to negotiate, to sit down and negotiate, Mrs Corcuera, yes, to negotiate, even if it is only to abstain and get something with which you can stand in the next elections before the Spaniards. But as they are the "it's not no and I don't know what part of the 'no' has not been understood", and I don't feel like negotiating, and I'm against it before they introduce me, without reading it... See, it's a political way of acting that's what you're doing. But of course, I didn't tell him that they emptied the pension hut. What I told you was that, although the hut was almost full, it had to have been more, but Mr. Zapatero was forgotten to enter two years more than 7 billion; it had to have had more. No, I told him that the pensions were frozen – and now Don't tell me the year you froze the pensions... you can make me the juggling games you want with the climbs and they frozen pensions: that year the pensioners lost purchasing power, more than 3 points. And with the hatch full. Why? Because to square the bad bills, you had to use pension money for other things. Yeah, yeah, and they know it as well as I do...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u44	And Mr. Egibar, let's see. I understand that each party has its own schizophrenics, but I will remind you that, with us, the budgets of this Basque Government have already been agreed, these are in force, in force 155, and the Socialist Party, which seems so bad to it to be to agree with the People's Party, because I believe that we have agreed with you the budgets that you are managing from the Basque Government, with our super-antisocial policies. Or are we very social? Are these budgets that we have here, are they very social or are they very antisocial? What are they? Because they're in agreement with us, Mrs. Corcuera. Of course, of course, why didn't you deal with the super lefts, who are supersocial, but who never get anything for people? They agree with us, that we are the only socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u46	That's a short one, and that's it. And I'm going to keep on euphora, why, I think, I've made myself clear first of all about what's the best thing I've ever done. We know that by taking what you received in this medium in general, we ourselves are within, at least for the moment, all the Basques. And these are our own materials, either straight or connected with the development of the auto-organization, or a substructure, I don't care whether it's in the area of the train or on the roads, or in the harbours or whatever it is. There's not even a single theme in that middle line. that is to say, that which is only the Basque, or only the Esscanian, and not the Spaniards. Yeah? Why? Larger View, granular Gero esaten da, esaten du Corcuera anderek, gu antzeko gaietan sartzen garenean, beti traskilatuta ateratzen garela. Hobe genuke, demokrata bezala, Katalunian ematen ari dena emango ez balitz. Because there is an interventional autonomy, interventional autonomy. A political, institutional expropriation, with the gravity it has. With a double strategy: the political strategy, marked by 155, which sets the limits not only for Catalonia, but also for Euskadi. Set the limits and those so many times mentioned red stripes. And there is a criminal strategy, which claims that an entire generation of nationalist or sovereignist leaders end up in jail. That's 155. And if we have to burn, we'll burn. Ymos hablado de lo que ha sido nuestro nive de responsabilid en el insisti. And it's not a pose, it's not like saying an oidade and confessing that we didn't keep the promise. It's another thing to take it as an oiedade. It's not an oval because we've committed a commitment to this country and because we're trying to destroy it. It's not an oiddade. I wish that others would make use of the past, or not so near, of what they had done, and of the future; But, well, it's not obieriety. And finally, also, to Monsieur Damborene. Don't make limits to democracy. And the only interpretation of the law is not there, and you know it better than you do, why we've thrown so many essays on this board of Autogour, the principles of legal legislation, and democratic principles require an addition. And in the name of this people, which is determined by the people directly, or by the representatives of the people, we ought not only to respect them, but rather to respect them; it would make life much easier for one another, even amongst the peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH Collect, one half-correction that Podemos and Basque Socialist have signed together. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-24.u48	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Next I read an institutional expression: "The institutional representation of the International Day of Pigs. "It was celebrated for the first time on the 20th of May, the International Day of bees, whose object is to consider public opinion in order to preserve the system well and to look into the future of the planet. "The foods that man consumes 75% require polynization, and yet, according to the data given by the Platforms between Biodybertsity and Eco system services, 40, especially bees and butterflies, are now on the verge of disappearing. This is a serious threat to all the tactical systems, and also to productive human activity. Thus the economic value of polynization is to agriculture in Spain a year around 2,400 million euros. "Among the factors that affect this decline in bees and pollinating insects, from the scientific point of view are the proliferation of parasites and diseases in bee farms, the use of certain pesticides and intensive farming practices, the spread of invasive species such as the Asian wasp, or the increasingly notorious effects of climate change on our ecosystems. "For all this, bat. The Basque Parliament recognises the essential role of bees and other pollinating insects as butterflies and bumblebees in the production of food and in the maintenance of terrestrial ecosystems, and urges Basque institutions to work for their protection and protection. "Two. The Euskian law calls the Esscal institutions, the corporations, the farmers, and the consumers, each of them from his own right to his own, and in the field of action, to respect the environment, and to support the biodyberts of our land. "And three. Specially, the Euskulian law demands that the Euscal institutions which have jurisdiction in this area should be employed to save the bees by the integral plan of action, and that they may take measures to reduce or to discard the use of substances which are toxic to the bees, such as fibron or necominoids are doing in this part of Europe. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-six.
