ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Annomy development and the development of the Consistence Committee, made on the bill of law which regulates the General Plan of the Basque Autonomy Road for the third time by changing the Law. Discipline and final resolution. He's got representatives in New York for 15 minutes to introduce the bill. I'm warning you, the vote will be at noon because there's blood being given. On this subject we will discuss and vote, and after the vote. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Well, the legal proposal that you're going to vote today is a very technical level, but it's in our policy of law, and in that sense it's also important, and if we consider that our jurisdictions are in the forum, it's also a kind of security to them and it's also helpful to them. Besides, we may be able to make a law of this kind today, which also is interesting, and in some measure indicates that we are able to agree with the agreements in this legislature, and that we are able to make laws out of them all. As you know, it is the third change of the 2/1989 law which regulates the General Plan of the Basque Road. The precedents of the law are: On the 30th of May, in 1989, a law was admitted, and in it the principal project of the Eukarian roads was to be determined and regulated, and, moreover, within the jurisdictions of the organizations of the autonomy community, the functions of the functions of this project are coordinated. After this law two changes were made connected to the catalog of the roads, and also connected with the novelty of the roads, and the justification of this third change is: Above all, we're looking into the third general plan. It'll soon be settled. It was planned for 2017-2018 and it will soon be over, and the purpose of the plan is to make a network catalog, of course, and some of the improvements that are needed to manage the plan have been introduced. And thus several other regulations and subjects have been examined, and it was proper for them to determine and set up the change of this law. What are the major changes? There are four of them. First, the purpose of this plan is to update the catalog of network roads, and to do what procedure is to be done and how it will be relieved. Second, testing how the network hibernation will be done. Third, the law granted on May 30th, 1989, also predicts how the General Road Plan will be made, and how the change will be made. Why do we adapt this procedure? For as there are different laws on the part of the country, both on the side and on the side of the means of transport, and as they must be considered, the whole plan has been changed to a new conclusion. So these are the four major changes. The amendments therefore refer to: updating and speeding up the procedure for amending the catalogue of the Road Plan, changing the hierarchy of the network, adapting that procedure to take account of the whole scope and legislation developed in the territorial, environmental and transport fields and amending the system for the review of the network. The network covered by the plan refers to 1,189 kilometres exactly, and it deals with all roads which, in view of the importance of traffic, link the historical territories with one another or with roads of the neighbouring autonomous communities. Includes the Preferred Network of Interest and almost all of the Basic Network. As regards the modification of the hierarchy of the network, the general principles of naming the road network have been changed in line with the new legislation in force. And the other novelty is that a new concept is added, a new hierarchy, which is the so-called Complementary Network. And it is the one that connects high-capacity itineraries with urban arteries. Thirdly, the adaptation of the procedure for drawing up the plan. What we intend to do is to take into account that new legislation which has been introduced from the territorial, environmental and transport spheres and which is included in this law amending road plans. In addition, the reports of the Territorial Planning Commission of the Autonomous Community and the Euskadi Transport Authority must be included in a well-rated manner in article 7 of the same Act. And lastly, the regulation of reviewing the plan changes, why? For it was mentioned in the former law, whether the plan should be changed every six years, and in this case the plan must be altered, and if anything changes, it is because it really takes effect and is important. Therefore this change will not take place once or for six years, or only in so far as it is necessary, and in this sense I think the process will be much faster and faster. So, as has been said, it is a very technical law, we mentioned it on the committee, and our jurisdiction being in this case only a sort of co-ordination, has also the approbation of the forum-mads. And finally, I'd like to thank the teams that will protect me, because it's really a good thing that this law is for the forge and some coordination on our roads. Thank you, in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Any members of the board to present a judgment? Well, we're going to the teams, the popular team, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, this tour, this vote description? Okay. Basque Socialists also vote. Together, Mr. Becerra is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning. As soon as this bill of law was introduced, the chief physician repeated that it was a technical one, and, well, it's strange to have a technical law, because it's always below it, well, substructure or political structure, isn't it? But we agreed to go through the project, to improve it as usual. And so we file technical corrections. 10 technical corrections, always in order to improve the project and text. But since no one else has made any correction, and we have been told that there is no opportunity of taking or changing a quote, we find that the political root is in this law. And it is a political infrastructure, because there is no separation of the powers, and because the executive power says to the legislature what it must accept. A committee composed of the Forum and this legislature of Government, the legislature which the eussacan society has given its democratic will, and the legislative power which it has given to it, tell them what it ought to accept. And if we want to change or improve things, it's not possible. And we must assume that the power of the roads is historically the most absolute. And we don't want to deny that and we don't want to change it. This appears in the State of Guernica, and in the law of Historical Lands. But it appears also in the Law of the Histical Lands, that this Assembly of Laws is authorised to accept it. And that can't be limited. We must have a chance of changing this Chamber, otherwise there is no democracy, no division of power. And that's why we made corrections and introduced them, and, for example, to keep you informed, we introduced one into the lists of the roads which appeared in an appendix, not only to show the name of the roads, but to show the hierarchy of roads or roads, to be more intelligible, and they said no, too. And that the definitions of the roads should be updated, because a decree has been admitted in the state order, and we set ourselves up to it, and that even this could not be done. And the funny thing is, I'm sure, that you're in possession of some new rights to change the general plan, and we've made two other legal corrections because of the legal security, when and how to change that plan, and that wasn't even possible to change it. Even the content of the plan, as a legal security, I repeat. And that wasn't possible either, and corrections were all technical, but it wasn't possible. COJUak berak esan zuen Jaurlaritzaren eskumen berri hau, plana aldatzeko eskumen berri hau aztertzean: "It seems advisable that the preliminary draft provide for some substantive criteria that would accompany the Executive in its task of adapting the plan". That's the amendment we've been describing, COJIU, and they said no. Even COJOCE said that this law is 1989 and that it is a third-century 89, and that we are changing it for the third time, he asked himself, "that no hubiera sido más convenicientor ado de dissiciento de disposientechamente nueva, en lugar det ratione modificias extentas." COJUA said it herself, and we didn't pay any attention to it. If, then, in this matter, the rights are not such as are to be updated, and the laws are unalterable, the institutional scope we have is more and more ancient, backward, slerodic, and decadent. And that's the institutional scope we have around the roads. And we, our team, have come here to improve things, to update the laws, and to open the windows, and, no doubt, to keep silence from what is wrong. I'm going to finish, and they're going to allow me the license, making a simile about the behavior I've seen in the different political groups in front of this bill. An experiment was made at the time, in which several monkeys were put into a camera with a ladder in the middle of the empty chamber, and every time a monkey went up the ladder, some cold water sprinklers were released so that the monkeys realized that they could not go up the ladder. Eventually, the monkeys, every time one went up the ladder, once they had realized it, were dedicated to stirring up the monkey that went up the ladder. They changed the monkeys and gradually the monkeys were attitating everyone who climbed the ladder even though the cold water was no longer coming out. I came at a time when the monkeys didn't know why they whipped the one on the stairs, but they kept whipping him in case. Well, a little of that is happening with this law. We all know that it is a law that needs to be changed, we all know that it is a law that could and should have been amended by this Parliament, and yet the rest of the groups when a new monkey comes up on the stairs, instead of wondering why he goes up the stairs, are dedicated to telling him that one cannot change a comma of the text, even though it is a backward text, although it is a text that is perfectly improveable to change a comma of the text, even though it is a backward text, even though it is a text that is perfectly improveable technically. And today we are going to reject 10 technical, non-political, amendments that were intended to improve something that was perfectly improveable. And we're not going to do it, simply, because we've got used to having an institutional space, the space of the roads, where there's a monkey that's on top of the ladder, where there's a monkey that's the one that rules cold water and hot water, while the other monkeys clap around the ladder with no intention of changing the situation as things stand. And, allow me the license, I say it because, with all due respect, I'm talking about monkeys; I'm going to be understood by the different groups. Here's a monkey that's on top of it, which I have to admit is the smartest monkey, because it not only opens the cold water spate, but also opens the drain through which we go every year hundreds of millions of euros on roads, which some serve and others not, as for example happens with the Supersur, in which we're going to spend 200 million euros public, of all and all, that we're going to go down the drain. And while the monkey on the ladder is still there, ruling and doing what he wants with the roads, the rest of the monkeys don't even amend, and the amendment rejects those amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Ugarte, the voter? A vote description, yes. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u5	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Here's the smart monkey, me. The purpose of the law which we are to accept today is to define and regulate the general plan of the Basque Roads, and to coordinate the work of each organization. This law is my commitment to his calendar. After two more attempts, the law confirms the general plan of the roads, which was agreed with the forums. In fact, their whole jurisdiction is theirs. I won't take much time on this legal shift, because, even if it's a previewed law, it's a very technical rule. It is agreed, before it has come to the legislature, that it has received a vast protection from the forum-rids and members of the legislature. If I have come down to the stage, it is simply, on the one hand, after listening to the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, to defend my status as a monkey and because you have endeavoured to present a number of amendments, not many, but I think it is appropriate to make an overall assessment of the Yeah, yeah, yeah, Very briefly, because, indeed, it is no longer worth it, although I would place them in any case, to explain them, in two blocks. One and nine propose, by providing for this law a simplification for the elaboration in the future of the General Road Plan without the need to appeal to a law, to do so exclusively with the previous report of the deputies and the Commission of the General Road Plan. Its amendments suggest that the grounds for such a change should be narrowed down in detail by decree, and it suggests several in Amendment No 9. It is purely legal technique, it is not political, it is purely legal technique and it is practical. If a list is drawn up to justify an amendment, this adds rigidity to the application to the future of the law and at the same time that, however much it lists, it will never be exhaustive enough to contemplate all possibilities and, therefore, when a possibility does not appear in the list, it must be done by law, when logic, logic and practice says that it should be done by decree. No more. That's the argument. On a subject in which the substantive powers are the deputies, security and sufficient assurance will be given by their previous report and approval in the committee in which all three participate jointly. There is another important block among the corrections: 4. The names, or definitions of names, of nets, &c. The purpose of that block is not to improve the law. It's a way of acting without examining, changing things, mutations, why is it? Definitions of the concepts functionality, network of preferential interest, basic network, complementary network regional network These are concepts and terms that have been discussed at the successive meetings that the Roads General Plan Commission does, and at frequent meetings, either in plenary or in presentation. This committee is the true backbone of the road organisation in Euskadi, and of its cohesion and coordination. That's where road policy is done. We are not going to tell you now that, after dozens of expert meetings to agree to redo the Euskadi road network, as well as naming and cataloguing them, in this Parliament in the 15 days of amendments we have come up with a change of heart, because it seems to us that it is more cool in another way. That's what in my town, really, that's called a tableocurrence. As I said, it's a very technical law. The law is obliged to transfer it; for it was established in the first place, but what we are essentially doing is a legal form of an agreement between the organizations, a agreement between the mad-duns and the aldunities. I repeat: their Jurisdiction is, and hath been acquired in the Common-wealth of Autonomy. The other members of the legislature have thus understood, and all of them have public experience management, others on the other side of the road. And therefore they understand the concept, content, and meaning of the law. That's why they helped relieve the transfer and I thank them. And all of this you know, but you have endeavoured to get to the end with your amendments, with your tables. Apart from, and I'm just going to give you an example, I'm not going to go into any more details, what does the law say that "the regional network will cover roads that, without any major traffic, communicate neighbouring regions," say, as you propose, "the regional network will cover roads that, without a significant flow of people or goods communicate neighbouring regions, be they from the same historical territory or bordering territories"? With all due respect, apart from the fact that roads can only unite bordering regions, I mean, alternate region roads have not yet been invented, adds a redundant text that can be misinterpreted. Roads join traffic, and the people and goods that connect the roads are in the traffic of people and goods, not because the people and goods that circulate through it do so regardless of the traffic, except some case of people who are doing the Camino de Santiago at that time. In conclusion, if things are right and work well, although they can always go better, they will not necessarily do so because someone changes a definition or a name without providing more than redundancy. Because changing for changing, I insist, is a tableoccurrences tableoccurrences The other teams have understood this and I thank them again, and sooner or later I will give them to you in the future, when you understand that things often work without changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The Podemus team together to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u7	Three interesting things you said, Mr. Telleria. The first is that road competition is in the hands of the Members of Parliament, no doubt. I have already told you from the beginning that we do not question that here. What we are questioning here is that it is this Parliament that has the competence to pass this law and the general road plan. And if you have the competence, you have it completely, also that of reviewing the text. And if we are not experts or experts in this matter, that is why there are appearances, such as that of the counselor, or those of whom we have to ask to clarify how the structure is and how the issue of roads works. That, of course, I can assure you that all these amendments make sense. For you today, and because this law comes from 1989, roads only serve to transport goods, look at the definitions. And the law that the State has passed, the PP, that I do not know why the PP in this quiet matter, speaks of multifunctionality, and speaks of a series of concepts much more modern, within the modernity that can be expected of the PP at the state level, much more modern even than that which has this Road Law of 1989. And there's been a missed opportunity to adapt that. Not with our amendments, our amendments were merely a proposal for work, which has not even been taken into account. We've worked it out in two five-minute meetings. No, no, no. How does the road annex appear next to the name in the road category to make the text more understandable? What's the harm? What changes the competitive framework? But you said it, the competitive structure we have is fine and works well. Yeah, for the smart monkey, yeah. And what's surprising to me here is that the rest of the monkeys accept the status quo that PNV poses today on the road issue. Our group is not going to accept that status quo. But we have lost an opportunity to make this Parliament have its only road competence, which is to pass the General Road Plan Act. Never, never in a democratic system can the Executive come to dictate to the Legislature, word for word, what it has to approve. That's not a receipt, and that's all we've shown. Whether or not these amendments are accepted gives the same, if next year, the fourth amendment of the law will come, and then the fifth will come. And we have a law from the last century, and what we're going to do is have it for centuries to come, because since the institutional structure can't be touched... Because I am sure that in the new statute coming out of the Self-Government Office the issue of roads will remain exactly the same, because there is a lot at stake, and not precisely political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u9	Thank you. Very brief, because neither am I going to insist that you follow the ideological, philosophical line of tableocurrency And he also made them to the three-column: He took the first point of the Cojua, and he says, I point to that data of the Cojua; but then there are five or six other Cojua that does not touch them, it is seen that he has remained alone in the first and already worth it to make an amendment. Nor has he asked for appearances in the committee to explain to him in committee the vision of others; there have been no appearances in committee, none. There hasn't been. The councilwoman, because she had to come to explain the law, that corresponded, but no one else, has asked neither the deputies nor road experts to come. And then he took the law of the State and said, well, in this that the law of the State is complied with, and in these three, not the other way around, for example in functionality. There's one that tells us that instead of functionality, let's say functional specialty. And you'll say, what's that got to do with it? What can you do for me? That's my question. Maybe the smart monkey is a different one than you thought. What happens is that you play the role of the monkey trying to move the ladder just to tell others, uh, I'm here moving stairs, I'm important, look. But look, he's also talked about democracy. Do you know what democracy is? That no one has paid attention to you, the rest of Parliament must be silly monkeys and you are the only smart monkey, but I believe, I do not think so. And I invite all Members to read carefully the amendments that you have tabled and to explain what substantial improvement there is on the subject. And he also said one thing: that the law speaks only of goods. The law speaks of traffic; it does not speak of goods. Traffic includes everything, goods, people, animals, whatever you want. And the drug guy, too, if he wants to. So, leave it, abandon the line of old-time deskocurdism. The others are also here to do things right and not because you have arrived or just arrived here, you will try to explain how things are done. When things go well, let's keep it as it is, and let's try not to scratch them. That's what happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tellegio. Boto azalpenera joango gara, López de Ocariz andrea, Euskal Talde Popularra, López de Ocariz andrea. Bai, boto-talpena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The People's Group will vote in favour of this amendment of the law. Law of the year 89 of 30 May, which aims to define and regulate the General Road Plan of the Basque Country, as well as to coordinate the exercise of the powers related to it, within the competence of the common institutions. After the expiry of the 2nd Road Plan 2005-2016, it is appropriate to draw up by the competent Department of the Basque Government, which, as you all know and know, is the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, the 3rd Plan 2017-2028. A plan whose drafting is coordinated and should be informed in advance of the processing regulated by the Land Management Act in the Commission of the General Road Plan of the Basque Country composed of the Basque Government and the three outlying deputies. All this in order to maintain absolute respect for the competences of the various administrations, as provided for both in the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and in Law 27/1983 on Relations between the Common Institutions of the Autonomous Community and the outside bodies of their Historical Territories, which we usually call the Historical Territories Act, LTH. The amendment that we are going to vote for today seems to us to be timely, because there is consent and a favourable report from outside Members to make improvements, which are incorporated in the plan. This is the third amendment to this law. The Complementary Network has been added – as the Counsellor has said – to the hierarchy of the roads of the network. Some of the principles of the modification of the existing road network have been amended in order to coordinate in the terms of the law regulating the plan, with the designation of the roads of the neighbouring provinces and the State road legislation of 2015 and the Royal Decree amending the nomenclature of the catalogue of roads and highways of the State road network. Also through this law that we have approved, we incorporate the drafting procedure that we are going to approve, let us go, the procedure of drawing up the road plan of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the variations that have occurred in the regulations of our autonomous community and instruments of planning of the territory of transport and infrastructures. In the environmental field, with Law 21/2013 on Environmental Assessment and Decree 211/2012 regulating the procedure for strategic environmental assessment of plans and programmes of the public administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community and which must also be incorporated into this plan, as is logical and understood by all, but that is counted and incorporated into this law. Finally, as has also been said, the regime for revising the plan is being modified, with the intention of making it more flexible and flexible so as to be able to respond more effectively to circumstances that suggest the adoption of new criteria for the management of the communication channels or the evaluation of the work and the actions carried out. That is why, while maintaining absolute respect for the powers of the various administrations, our group has voted or is going to vote in favour. There are those who have come to prostitute the exclusive activity of this House and we are seeing how this forum of atril, rally, chamber and electoral space is being used. And what the 25th was not possible, today is possible, and what is not possible today, is being done outside and today is being debated and a bill is being drafted outside this House, for which it has now claimed that this House is the seat for the drafting of bills and the processing of laws. This is the world upside down and it's an incongruity what we're seeing here today. There are smart monkeys, dumb monkeys and jet monkeys.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u12	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I don't have a monkey complex, maybe I have a little monkey face, but that's all I have. We will defend this law, we have agreed from the beginning, because it is a very technical law, and also because, in the ends, the meaning of this law is very clear. So we will defend this law which regulates the general plan of the road. The rule is highly defined, very high-rate, as I have said, a very technical rule, besides, with the three forums and a good deal of work in the government. And the foundation is that we have, that we define, regulate, co-ordination, upgrade the catalog of roads, so that I don't think we have a chance to discuss a lot of political criteria. Therefore, seeing the amendments, I think they would have wished to introduce political matters, or to introduce a little political notorieda. We do not see any meaning in the amendments that have been introduced, but we will oppose them, especially because some of them seem to be technicians but know much more. I have always said that there is always some one who knows much more than others, and in this chamber there seems to be some one or other. As I saw a little bit of the processing of this Law, I really tell you that I did not find any reason to table any kind of amendment, among other things, because it was a highly valued, very technical law, which was very much worked on by the three outlaws and the Government and which has its perfectly defined objectives. Finally, that is to coordinate, that is to define the competences of each of the institutions in relation to road infrastructure. Finally, to renew, to update the catalogue of the Euskadi road network, at last, I believe that there was no point in incorporating any kind of political criterion. But in the end, if I may, seeing the processing has reminded me a little bit of that joke of those parents who are going to see a parade in the school yard and after watching all the kids parade, the parents say, "You have to see how smart my child is, that the only one who takes the step in condition is mine."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. If he's the representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u15	Good morning, everyone. Look, I always hate to hear people say that they didn't want to talk and talk, but it's true, and I swear I didn't mean to talk. But when you hear them, I think it's time to give you a couple of lessons. Here we have a consistent map, we have some laws, and if these laws are inclined to respect the present conditions, it seems to me that to take advantage of such a plan is a very clumsy way of entering into a subject. This plan should be called nomencral than plan, for realmente For four years, I've been a deputy on the roads and the only effect that's been to me in the Eucomune has been two meetings: in an interintinental commission of the "de mezclas vituminosas," there is the fact that Mr. d'Arriola knows him very well, because he was staying in these meetings; the meetings were strictly technical, and so on; There is no execution and bincular plan, and we don't want it anyway. We don't want to, because today, you know, today, it's all about classies with exclusive hands. So if I were to come when I was a deputy on the roads and tell you a parliamentary at Podemos that this congressman has to decide what roads we're doing in the Gipu, I'd say no and I'd give you a chance. So it's very nice to make jokes. It's very nice to come here and say anything, but when things are said, you have to say it with a little authority. This proposal, this plan, is a very technical one, and there was no need for this discussion, and I don't like making a political fiction, thank you all and good day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Second point on the theme list... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u17	Will you promise? It is only to say that there must be a vow on the vote, and two of three has not given its vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u18	Yeah, there's a lot of manners here to do that, but everybody's got to do it. Let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u19	Yes, your jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u20	Yes, yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u21	And besides, "jet"...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u22	Mr. Becerra...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u23	They used the word Jeta. They used the word Jeta and that's not acceptable. Your support...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u24	Mr. Becerra, he didn't say what he was. You seem to have felt guilty, but he didn't say his name. He just said "jetta."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u25	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u26	But, well, all the same, it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u27	I understand, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u28	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u29	For that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u30	Ha! That's enough! That's enough, Becerra. Ha! You don't have a word. It's true that the voters... but not two from three to two, but five from five are generally five. The vote is usually the most important thing that can be included. Then I think it's all right and I'm taking the glove and I tell everyone from now on, when it's a vote, make a vow, all of you. Everybody! Second point in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law of Parliament, concerning the 40th anniversary of the Constitution of Spain. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, the Representative of the EH Collectors has the word to defend and defend his initiative. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u31	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. head of the table, thank you. When we speak of the Spanish Constitution, there are usually two principal readings. One, that has been done in his day, and has been kept up ever since, seeks to legitimatize. As the Socialist Party has done with its corrections, I suppose it was that moment or that wager that praised good things. That harmony, freedom, democracy, the time of the greatest welfare... The other, and who defends the majority of the people of the Basque Country, is, I believe, a much more real reading. But I think it's better to put it in context to understand what happened at that moment, or to draw right conclusions. The year of 1978, Franco's dictator had been dead three years, but Francism was very much alive. Well, some people say he's still alive and some people are shaking him for more life. But reality was that Franco was dead, but Franco was very active. He died quietly in a hospital, without paying for any crime, and indeed the only concern he had in keeping the regime built in the '39th year was how he would stay after he left. But I think he had a very good instrument, and he had it pretty well. In the first place, he had a new face, which kept the regime and made it look different: He had Prince Juan of Burgundy, and he intended to give him another picture, and he had also efficient tools for keeping the regime, because he had armed forces and also a French court-martialist in his hands. And when I mention armed forces, they never please me, because I've been an insemisis about the convention, and I don't think they have any special paper or good papers, but it's even better to know who was in charge of armed forces at that moment. A few years ago I had the chance to read a colonel's book of an army, and that the army of Spain which he held was just at that moment a Frenchman, and that the death of Franco had been that of the Frisian army of Spain, not in 36, not in '39, but in 78. And why? For that role of temporary Lazy temporarys created at the moment of the fascist rise, all by heart, provisionales. And if the cooking was done with these ingredients, what can we say about the cooks? Of those called "padres de la Contucion" which has often been spoken? That most of them had come from the regime, and that the most or most obvious example was one of those men who had been Minister of Francism and had been President of the Alliance Popular. They also had the object of bringing the regime to a new reality, and succeeded in doing so, because all the states of the Frianist regime had succeeded in continuing or passing on to the new stage, keeping all their privileges safe. This kitchen, this cooking and these cooks wanted to sell us these 40 years ago, and they wanted to sell us even 40 years ago. Fortunately we may say that the majority of the Basque society had seen clearly in this frame, that the Basque people had no opportunity to determine their future, that a frame of composition was being produced, and therefore two of the voters rejected the new frame that was being produced. And I say it was a framer because that was the way Franco's main instruments, the leading instruments that he had thought of, were doing their part well and still well. The Constitution proclaims the unity of Spain, hating the will of nations and nations within the state, and appointing them to support this sacred union, to secure the sovereignty and independence of Spain, and to maintain its whole territory and constitution. So when we talk about anything on the table, we have weapons there with clear intention of conditions. The King's House has been very well aware of its role during the last 40 years, and, for example, I don't know what's clean, but at least that's what will remember well now is a very partial paper that King Philip VI. played with the trial in Catalonia. Franco told his father what his role was, and today the king has learned to receive it faithfully, which Francis Franco had promised his father. It must be said, however, that we are all well acquainted with it, as well as the King's House has done in that sense; When Juan Carlos decided to invade it, they began to figure out what kind of money he went into, and there are numbers that say that we've got a $1,800 million, a $2,000 million fortune coming into these 40 years, and we all know that one hand was in front of us and another in the back. So what we've got is that they had two active papers, or two active agendas, and there's been a third, and that he's had a very important paper for the last few years and that's the court-martial. It is often asserted that the National Audience has been the result of a French court-actor, but the Constitutional Court was also founded by a very clear purpose. The interpretation of the Constitution is what he must do. In all the interpretations he has hitherto made, he has made an interpretation against the rights of the nations of the State, and here we have seen that he has been too much supported, after the interpretations of the Constitutional Court has made. We have seen too many times that they wish to maintain this 78 compact with the same spirit that was then at that time. It is true that, in the case of the constitution, as it has always been well or conscientiously abused, it must be said that the Constitutional Court has not been so careful to secure the rights of the Spaniards. The Constitution says that the wealth of Spain depends on general interests, but we have seen that in the last decades, as different governments, the public sector of Spain has gradually disappeared. The Constitution says that all the Spaniards have a right to make a worthy house, and we have seen that in the last ages governments have made more effort than to deprive them of their homes, or to comply with those rights which the absence of houses induces the Constitution to exercise. And the Constitution also says that all the Spaniards have the right to work; but we see that the rate of unemployment is double to the rate of European unemployment, we see that Spain is in the lowest position in Europe, and we see that the greatest number of workmen who are involved in poverty is in the State of Spain. The unity of Spain is probably one of the duties of the Constitutional Court, but it does not seem to attach so much importance to its well-being. So, what do these 40 years leave us? A frame involved in the composition, and a frame which repels the will of nations, a frame which leaves us only the choice of compulsory intercourse. So, what do we have to celebrate? So what have we got to say? I dare say that we have more to celebrate and to despise than to credit, for this constitution does not at all guarantee the rights of the people and of the people. The Federal regime with the Constitution of 78 had a quiet corridor to the new stage, but it did not solve the question of the Russian state's territory and will not solve it unless it is respected by the people. It is often said of these microphones that co-existence, the need of co-existence, the nourishment of co-existence, is necessary to co-exist, but association cannot be maintained by an impulse. If life must be founded upon respect, it must be respect for one another, because a relation must arise, and ought to be respected; but above all, it must be founded on respect, in respect of the will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u33	Yes, good day to you congressmen. We would like to begin by expressing from our group that we welcome a debate on the 1978 Constitution, because we consider it necessary that an issue as important as the model of State should be addressed now, when more than four decades have passed since the adoption of the Constitution and after a decade of deep institutional, economic and social crisis. Today there is no state power that is at the margins of a deep crisis of legitimacy: executives stained by rampant corruption, legislatures that are genuine circuses and a judicial power subordinate to economic and financial power. For our coalition, the current Constitution is not able to meet the challenges that our society faces: political, social and territorial challenges for those who do not have an answer. Therefore, naturally, but with all the firmness, we say that it is time for a new Constitution. Because in the face of the articles on social, economic and environmental rights of the current Constitution, which have either been left on wet paper or have been breached, we need to shield the right to decent and rights-based employment, to guarantee the right to free and quality health and public education; we need to ensure the right to housing or the right to a decent public pension system. In the face of the current Constitution, which is not knowing how to protect a minimum freedom of expression, we need a new one that safeguards political freedoms and extends civil rights. Faced with a Constitution that has not been able to build close, transparent institutions, we need a constitutional framework capable of avoiding corruption and clientelism in the management of the public. Faced with the current Constitution, which protects the privileges of the Royal House, which prevents them from being criticized, which prevents them from being held accountable, we need a new way of choosing the head of state, a democratic way, we need a republic. These flaws in the current Constitution, all present from the day one of its adoption, became unbearable with the unjust management of the last economic crisis. Citizenship and workers have met more and more. But while our rights were being cut and insecurity increased, some were still filling their pockets at the expense of the rest and the employer was getting huge benefits. And it is that the 1978 Constitution and the so-called democratic transition were not the exemplary tale of Victoria Prego's chronicles. In fact, they were the result of an unequal correlation of forces or, as Comrade Manuel Vázquez Montalbán would say, of weaknesses in a country that was trying to shake the yoke of a long dictatorship. The Constitution was overly conditioned, more than even in that difficult historical context was justifiable. However, there are some issues that we believe it is essential to point out. The first is that in this correlation of forces, thanks to the push of anti-Franchism, of the workers' movement, of fighting unions and of leftist forces, conquests were also wreaked out in that Constitution. There are those today who will talk about social welfare, economic growth, self-government and freedoms that the Constitution of 78 brought, and yes, it is true, we will not deny it, brought it, deny it would be to lack the truth, in addition to a lack of respect for the anti-Franquist Democrats who played their life to conquer those rights and freedoms. But he brought them much less than he should and brought them not those who fill their mouths today by glossing these advances, but those fighters whom I have quoted. Today, they defend the immobility of the Constitution, who literally stood up against them in arms, praise their advantages, who sought every right that was extracted from that text. But it is no less true that the strong resistance of the Francoist elites made it possible to preserve conservative prerogatives in the Constitution and not to alter the structure of power. This is very evident in the case of the monarchy and the economic elites, but it also affects the judiciary. Today those of us who feel that we are heirs, for good and bad, of the correctness and mistakes of that anti-Franchism, of that workers' movement, of that left that fought and played for life by conquering every right and freedom collected as it could in that Constitution, say that we aspire to change it, to have more and better rights, more and better freedoms. That is why we legitimately say that we need a new constitutional framework. The second thing we wanted to point out is that whoever brings this debate to this Parliament today, we think, is doing so in the interest of painting a completely black Spanish state with which to confront an abertzale action unit. We say yes, that we can agree on the problems of a territorial and national nature that drags the text of 78, but that we do not agree on the solutions. We believe that the Constitution cannot cope with the obvious territorial crisis in the State and that, precisely because of this, we believe that a new one is needed. Our political proposal is clear: it goes through a reform or a constituent process for a new constitutional framework, a plurinational and multilingual key State, which shields and guarantees social and political rights; it goes through a federal or confederal key republic; it goes through equality and interterritorial and intergenerational solidarity. That is the basis of the proposal we are proposing. We believe that the solution cannot come from unilateralism anywhere, nor from the fracture between workers. Nor, nor much less, about the judicialization of problems with disproportionate accusations of non-existent crimes of rebellion. We can only come, more or less like, to a political agreement for a new, better and more democratic constitutional framework. The third issue that we wish to point out is that, in fact, in Euskadi, support for the Constitution in the referendum was very limited and with an uneven outcome depending on the territory. And this has to be taken into account, we can't ignore it. Nor can we make it clear that listening today to the People's Party defend the Constitution is a curious thing, in view of how its referent for those times, the People's Alliance, called for the vote against that Constitution. The right said that he had gone a long way by giving in, by giving in both social and territorial. And hence, after his obvious defeat in that referendum, came the LOAPA, the Tjero coup or restrictive doctrines of the Constitution, which reinterpreted the content of the Constitution downwards. And it is that one of the main errors of the transition was, precisely, that it did not break with Francoism. Thus, the corrupt and client culture of the dictatorship was spread to the new model under new and old formulas, but with the same perverse content. And in the same way, a monarchy accustomed to dark business, to the treatment of favor, not to account, to the excesses of the court, are democratic loopholes that could not be addressed 40 years ago; nor has it been prevented that these economic elites, these factual powers continue to move the threads. We've seen it in the middle of a crisis, we've seen it with social cuts to rescue the bank, we've seen it with tax amnesties. We can therefore debate about that process, about how well or how badly some of these and other things have been done; we can discuss how much to pay for the anti-Franchist resistance and how much those who quickly changed the jacket of the national movement to that of life-long democrats to maintain power levels; we can discuss how the monarchy stuck us in a constitutional text, voted the whole pack or did not vote. Without a doubt, we can and must discuss these issues and how this model was developed, thoroughly emptying the social part of the Constitution and strengthening the part intended to maintain the privileges of economic and political elites. For example, the express reform of article 135. But our coalition thinks that today the most useful thing we can and should do is look to the future. To establish an alternative to the current Constitution, in order to offer solutions to the present and future challenges of our society. If we believe, if we think that the 1978 Constitution is not the constitutional norm that the Spanish State should have, as my parliamentary group believes, we must make this clear and put forward the need to build an alternative. Otherwise, we will remain in mere historical criticism, but with the same Constitution and the same problems without solution. Because after these 40 years and in the face of a crisis of the model of 78, that moment is not only timely, but necessary, to resume what we were bequeathed to those who preceded us and to do so from our present reality looking to the future; to continue the effort of our parents, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers, who, in a context of repression, torture, imprisonment and the absence of rights, managed to conquer the rights of today, making our country a better place than it would have been in the absence of that struggle. That is why we need a constitutional framework that is at the service of the social majority, which really guarantees the subordination of wealth to the general interest, which enshrines real equality, not only formal, a framework that guarantees freedoms and a real separation of powers, with a truly independent judiciary. A constitutional framework that guarantees the democratic choice of all public positions, including the headship of the State, thus a republican constitutional framework, that enshrines the principles of equality and fraternity, a constitutional framework that recognizes the multi-national reality of the State itself, and that is built from the free accession of peoples and citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u35	Okay. The Socialist Group would like to thank us for the opportunity given to us by the initiative of Bildu to commemorate the great pact of coexistence that has made possible the greatest period of progress and social cohesion that has ever lived in Spain and also in the Basque Country. This has been a great pact between different people, which has, fortunately, survived all the coup variants, and has been a few, which tried to nullify it, and which has also survived the brutal aggression of terrorism, which also wanted to bring it down. The great pact based on rights and freedoms that allowed us all, including the Basques, to have access to the wider space of Europe; that makes it possible for citizens, including the Basques, to come to that Europe to seek protection of those rights if they feel violated; a pact, which, as we advocate in our amendment, is improved by shielding the social rights set out in the current Constitution, which improves the coexistence between the different aspirations of the different territories, and which provides at least an area of stability and prosperity such as the lived one. Because what we are going to talk about today is that, how we organize ourselves, the majorities and rules we agree on, how this agreement is useful to citizens, and how we can adapt it to the new social, demographic, technological, territorial and, of course, European realities. Socialism has been in each and every one of those agreements in which rights and freedoms have been expanded, and which have always, always, had a positive impact on Euskadi. Of the formations we have in this House today, only the Socialists and the Communist Party can say that we were in the yes to the 1931 Constitution, in the yes to the 1936 Statute, in the yes to the 1978 Constitution, and in the yes to the 1979 Statute. No one else. That is why I am surprised by some of Mr Hernández's remarks, with such a critical reading of what the current Constitution means, recognizing that it has gaps, that it has failures, and that it is necessary to reform it, because of that support for the Constitution only his party and ours can boast at this time. Socialists do not deny any of these essential pacts, and that is what the Constitution deals with, not just numbers, because mathematics is accurate science, but politics based on numbers is not. And this initiative today is presented to us under a numerical premise, that what it seeks is to again confront legality and legitimacy, majority versus consensus, but arithmetic does not understand covenants. We are told that the Constitution was endorsed by 30% of Basques. And this said so simply is as false as if the vote against, which reached almost 6%, intended to add to that left abertzale with the New Force of Blas Piñar, who defended the same vote. The Socialists do not think of the conclusion that these two forces are calling for the vote against for the reasons that Bildu now points out, unless those votes are to be carried by the left-wing abertzale to his backpack. Or as false as saying that the abstention requested by the PNV, which ended up reaching a very high figure, was totally attributable to that party, and that it can be transferred to an argument of lack of legitimacy. If we look at all the elections, all the participation, we could conclude that neither the Statute of Gernika was endorsed by 90% of the Basques, that the majority of the governments that have been in Euskadi in 38 years have also had the support of the majority of the Basques. And that by derivative in terms of legitimacy, almost all lehendakaris would also be questionable. Or as false as denying the fact that the majority of Basque representatives in the Courts endorsed the Constitution, because only 1 of the 21 opposed it, and that their status of popular representation cannot be denied, because for the derivative it would also have had no legitimacy the 1936 Statute, because it was not endorsed by the citizenry. As false as if we don't understand the moments, the arguments and the reasons that moved everyone. As if the socialists questioned the existence of a solid basis of nationalism, as if we denied a way of understanding Euskadi other than our own, because we clinged to a few words of Xabier Arzalluz in 1978 to Europe Press and I read it textually. "The PNV accepts the unity of Spain, the integration of the Basque Country into this unity, from the historical and legal peculiarities that we have maintained for so many centuries." I'm not making it up, it was his words. What happens is that socialists know how to read and understand why these words, as we know how to read and understand why the Constitution exists, because we understand that this society is plural and what we do must be able to articulate and manage it. The debate is as false as if we did not know that only the convening of the referendum triggered a brutal terrorist offensive, after the Amnesty Act had emptied all prisons, and that from that convening to the referendum, in just two months, ETA killed 29 people, five of them on the same day of reflection. As false as if we did not know that in other places in Spain the abstention was higher than in Euskadi, or that, however, in Navarra, in that great Euskal Herria that you defend, the participation was similar to the rest of Spain, because distorting the numbers has these things, provokes false debates, because this is a false debate about false assumptions of those who pretend to deceive us with mathematics. It is the debate raised by those who make regular participation a motto on which to hold this false debate and, at the same time, relativize a very small 13% participation in unregulated consultations lasting a week, which do not have a verifiable census, but with a very broad media voice, and those are good for you. A trap posed by those who had to assume the Constitution by force, after having tried to overthrow it unsuccessfully; a trap in which it falls in a surprising way who, in the heat of that Constitution and of this Statute, which is intended to delegitimize, has already been managing 94 out of 100 euros in this country for more than three decades. A trap in which it is not clear who inherits that communist party, which called for a mobilization in favour of that Constitution as a great act of democratic affirmation. But the debate that has been put before us is a good opportunity to remind those who, above and beyond numbers, see in this country people who, in their daily lives, relate to other people who think differently and who feel as equals. That there are those who continue to remember those who made possible, and how they did so, the Constitution of 31, the Statute of 36, those militiamen and gudaris, who, with all the generosity of the world, with no grudge and no accountability to anyone, defended the legitimacy of those covenants, although they could not even be endorsed in the ballot box, who saw that 40 years ago the path of dictatorship was reopened, the path that the dictatorship had blinded. And we also remind those who took their lives by making that space share, more or less accurately, every article of those rules, not be annulled. And today there will be a resurgence of majorities vis-à-vis minorities, numbers vis-à-vis coexistence, and we, from the Socialist Group, defend the value of the pact that makes us all what we are and discuss what we are discussing, including the demolition of those we have. We want to defend the value that this Constitution has had and has, with its flaws, with its failures, and to defend its improvement and its reform, with the same substrates of consensus, in order to improve the lives of the people and to improve the relations between the different territories of Spain. It is true that now there are few limbs, said yesterday in a talk the exlehendakari Ardanza, does not seem to be the panorama as for noises, almost better that we stay as we are. There is a substrate of reality that you want to escape, because you are probably interested in making this one more chapter of propaganda and sum up of the agreement of bases that you have agreed with the lords of the PNV.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u37	Good morning, everyone. I think we've discussed it a hundred times around the Constitution in this Chamber, and Mr. Pastor said this isn't a game of figures, and we don't have to cheat on numbers. Well, I think that the first point we've transcribed, is precisely what it says, namely, that the protection which the refreneum of the Constitution had in the community-autono number, but it's clear that the constitution which prevails in the laws had here 30,8%, and that from 53%, the state nodded, but there's a difference of 23 points. And I shall not enter into other stories, such as those which have been made at Donostian or Irun; for if we compare the votes of one and the other, which the Constitution had, and which has happened in these questions, it may perhaps give some one thought. Well, what we're saying is, why all this? And I'm not going to start again right now, but I have to repeat, in order to form, to create this Constitution, to create, to create, to be out of power, why? For the most partlist reason, among other things, because the Socialist Party didn't want Tierno Galván to be involved. And if Tierno Galván had more representatives than we do, how can you leave PNV, the Tierno Galván? It couldn't be, and we stopped outside and we had an intermediary, in that case Miquel Roca. This is the beginning, and then, on the basis, what is here said, is explained in our correction, and also in the middle. This constitution of 1978, and it may be seen how the text developed, even in the poncience itself, it is evident that it fixes it, and how to establish it, the most important feature of this single nation: it is indivisible, and it is the common and inseparable country of all the Spaniards. Indissoluble, inseparable. Then we say in advance: This is the main column, and this high column was denied in this country. Read the numbers as they please, but that's basically the problem. That doesn't mean... We were coming from a dictatorship at the beginning of a pseudo-democracy, and a new period in which democracy was intended to be a democracy. It doesn't mean that social rights, economics, and basic rights, to the remuneration that the Constitution had no positive side. Klaro, it is acknowledged that he had done it, but he did not solve the matter of the real prosperity of the country, and he did not solve it. If it is indivisible, then it is the case of things that happen, e.g. Catalonia. At the moment when these national affairs are about to solve, it is obvious that there are obstacles, privations. And this is why we say that whoever wants to change the Constitution has the intention, the spirit, the opinion, the proposals, and the need of protection, must come to this subject. This unity, which is indivisible and indivisible, will be a greater, stronger, if taken from a free attachment. It's a free impulse. No, it's inseparable, and we'll impose that unity and impose the participation on it. Then you have no solution from that, that's what we're talking about. And I remember, you mentioned Arzal Long's statements, there's a lot of them and there's a lot of diari de arguers. But there are certain concrete things: It was a discussion, and some will say, that the Mount, the Autodetermination Right, wanted to propose, and why did the nationalist group, the Basque team, use some of its historical rights? To show that history, too, might exhibit something to the Constitution, for this reason these historical rights could not contain any text proposed by PNV, but it is felt from the hands of historical rights that there was a reality before the Constitution, and therefore the historical rights are referred to. Why is the state of Guernica not supposed to admit of autonomy excess that this people rejects that mass of rights which it might possess through history? It is evident that the State has not given up those historical rights to-day, if it does not refuse, if it is not in the text, there seems to be some other rights. Well, we think that's why we're talking about the situation and the self-organization principles as a handle we're talking about: there's a power in it from historical rights, if you like, in order to solve that political problem. I'd say more: When the debate was established, there were still some amendments, and we were several political parties, which were said to be in the countries which composed the sovereignty of the State. Or, at the present time, that this Soveraignty is in the countries which now constitute the Common-wealth, and by the exercise of it from that Soveraignty, may arise a structure of State. That was the plan. That's what the plan was made at the time, and that's what fell back. And then, I'm not going to read it all to you now, but he offered a new one. He was very popular. 689 was a correction, and here's the key. Why do we interfere with this point on the basis? When they say they're being revoked, they're derogized, they're aboligatory laws... One can say, "No, that's history." Well, but if you abolish some laws, they should have their rights back. Well, the Constitution has that kind of thing in the back, in that second derogatory. He's got it. There's a grip. He hasn't been through it. That was denied. What we're saying is that there's a text there too. Eta zer esaten zen emendakin hartan? "They return to the outlying regions of Álava, Gipuzkoa, Navarra and Bizkaia their original political institutions and powers" ejaten zen. Begiratu erregea nola tratatzen zen: "The foral covenant with the crown is renewed by keeping the king in those territories the titles and faculties that had traditionally been held by his predecessors. "The above-mentioned outlying regions which so decide may form a single territorial area by mutual agreement creating the necessary institutions and preserving each of them their own powers and considering it appropriate to reserve themselves until such time as it establishes it". This was the amendment. And this amendment that passed from Congress to the Senate, which whether or not passed, eventually ended up mutilated, like everything else. And there are interpretations and there are concrete actions by people from different parties. Well, there's a handle there, too. And what we say in this correction of our whole body, is: One. That the Constitution had not been sufficiently protected, unalterable, to present itself to this people as an immovable law, is another reason. Anything can change, but not the Constitution. One of them. Number two: If any one wants repairs, it is evident, from this right of self-determination or decision in the country, that he must guarantee a free attachment, or else there will be no union. It will not be the real unity, but the imposed unity. And also from the hands of historical rights, if political will exists, there is a power to give a solution to political affairs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u39	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Basically today we are in this debate because the rest of the groups – because all of you, all of you – are left with this Constitution and want another, some to reform it, others to load it, others to create a different thing. I will try, through this speech, to respond to the debate as you have put it, both in writing and later in your speeches. As a result of what we have had an opportunity to know there is an approach of EH Bildu through a non-law proposal in which he tells us that this Constitution is not useful, because it was not backed by the Basques and that he does not recognize, trample, our rights as a people. Elkarrekin We can, in an attitude already known to all, pose that a generation cannot bind its laws to future generations. The Socialist Party also wants another Constitution because it is necessary for the territories to coexist, and the Basque Nationalist Party basically says the same thing, exactly the same thing, the discourse of the Basque Nationalist Party of Bildu is indistinguishable. It is appropriate to start by remembering, because although we live in confused times and in which post-truth is opening its way to forced marches and sometimes it seems that it even does so with some force, that the Constitution was approved in the Basque Country, we will repeat it as often as necessary because, if not, it would seem that the lie is true. 480,000 Basques, about 480,000 Basques, supported the Constitution and nearly 163,000 said no. It is an extraordinarily weak argument, which is very interested, not to say politically childish, to pretend to take the abstention in a consistent way, depending on whether I am interested or not. It is such a childish and weak argument that one might wonder whether, therefore, from the independenceist worldview, the electoral results in Navarre do endorse the Constitution or even in Álava also endorse it. Therefore, the Constitution was adopted in the Basque Country, it was adopted in the Basque Autonomous Community, it has the backing of the Basques, it has full legitimacy, unless someone, I insist, means, for example, that the European Constitution voted in 2005 has no legitimacy and is not applicable in the Basque Country, Mr Egibar. Because the abstention was the one in 2005 to ratify the Union treaties that constituted a Constitution for all Europeans and that even the negative vote was higher than the positive vote in Euskadi. Does the European Constitution not have legitimacy in Euskadi, Mr Egibar, really that the Basque Nationalist Party defends that? And, Mr.Urizar, our rights are not trampled on by the Constitution, it is precisely our rights that are enshrined in the Constitution. Rights are enjoyed by citizens, by individuals, men and women who seek to live together in public space, in a plural society and are the norms that we equip ourselves with to live together those that order our living together. Precisely, the Spanish Constitution, which as has been well remembered before suffered Innumerable and important clashes, among others an attempt of coup d'état, and was able the rule of law and the Spanish Constitution to survive and overlap, was also able to overcome singularly in Euskadi the clash of a terrorist organization that wanted to subvert the constitutional order through intimidation, bombs and shooting. But we must not forget also that it was precisely the terrorist organization ETA that was the legacy of Francoism that has lasted the most in democracy. If something remained of the Francoism in democracy was ETA, and there was also some Francoist, and this I will not go into details, Mr Urizar, but that some Francoists quickly became nationalists in Euskadi that should also be remembered. Some enlarged the ranks of the left abertzale and not a few also enlarged the ranks of the Basque Nationalist Party. This revisionism, this permanent look back looking for purity of blood or particular trajectories, eye, which have many protagonists and also has many names and surnames, here for all. The Adamist argument to which we are also accustomed Podemos, also falls by its own weight. The constitutions have a permanence vocation, because what they establish are general frameworks that recognize rights, obligations, and how complex communities, complex political communities, are organized. The same is true in the United States of America, Germany, the French... and the Spanish Constitution because it is not unique in that case. If someone wanted, like Podemos, I don't know if with the Ortegian sense of expression in relation to the generations, to establish that every 20 or 30 years we have to make a new framework of coexistence, we would be in political schizophrenia of difficult resolution. In addition to the obvious instability that I would establish for our societies, so that we can develop and evolve. And, with regard to the Socialist Party, we regret not to coincide, because indeed, Mr Pastor, I believe that we defend that with the Socialist Party, at least in this, we should not disagree and we should be united. It is true that the arguments force, the fundamental arguments that you have made in the rostrum, are shared by the People's Party. But we cannot agree with the Socialist Party's argument that the constitutions had to give an answer to what the territories live together. The territories don't have to live together, the ones that have to live together are the citizens. It is necessary to respond to a decentralized state, which is what the Spanish Constitution does, so that the administration, so that the management that is given to the citizen is as effective as possible. And that's what our Constitution does, I insist, not in a singular way, all constitutions do in terms of comparative law of our environment, at least of the West. We're not different in this. What is uniquely surprising is that copy, that already indestructible union between the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu in this matter. It's surprising, not because we don't know it, but because there's no more makeup. You have already dispensed with makeup and on this continuous climb towards what mountain, you are already speaking with total transparency, and we particularly thank you, Mr Egibar. We appreciate the transparency and clarity with which they speak. With which you doubt, even, the democratic character of the Constitution or the system we have acquired, when you speak of a pseudo-democracy. It is surprising, because today we are sitting here, we have a lehendakari, we have advisors, we have an outside regime, with their deputies, with their assemblies, we have municipalities, we enjoy a statute and a level of self-government as never before in our history thanks to the Spanish Constitution of 1978. We enjoy a regime of freedoms that protects us, that allows not only our coexistence between different people, but also protects us in our social rights, our labour rights, the right to strike, etc., etc., etc. And it is surprising that it comes from the Basque Nationalist Party, when it is you who have benefited most politically from the Spanish Constitution. Is there greater disloyalty than this? Is there greater disloyalty than that expressed by the Basque Nationalist Party, with less and less make-up, in relation to the norms that we have endowed ourselves with to live together, in this case with the Spanish Constitution and in others with regard to the Statute of Autonomy? I don't think there's any greater disloyalty. Anyway, and to finish, because I don't think there's much more to this, I want to tell you one thing. We are aware, as I told you before, that we live in difficult times, complex times, times in which post-truth, this which is called post-truth – which in the end is a euphemism to speak of lies – seems to be gaining space and it seems to be colonizing not only spaces of politics, but also social spaces. And it is true that there are certain territorial clashes, mainly driven by independenceists, in the specific case of Catalonia, which seems to be that the rule of law is suffering or that the rule of law is shaking, and with it the Constitution. It seems that the rise of certain populisms is also breaking confidence in those institutions and in those rules of coexistence that are solid, that have enabled us, yes, to progress and evolve as never before in our history, and I am thinking of the whole of Spain, but singularly in the Basque Country. And I want to tell you one thing, believe me, with total serenity, but also with a lot of roundness. Neither the populism of Podemos nor Vox, nor the independence of Bildu or the Basque Nationalist Party, will succeed in subverting the institutional order and carrying the coexistence between Spaniards and Basques. This I guarantee you, Mr. Egibar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Urizar, representative of EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u41	Thank you. Well, there have been a couple or three interferences that discuss that the way is not confession, that the way is not one-sided, that the way must be made through life by consent. And in theory this is true, but if experience teaches us that the measures taken are different. These are the measures taken: The majority is in Madrid, the majority in numbers, and the power is in Madrid, so that they put the frame themselves in it, and it is our turn to assume what we can or can do within that frame, which is the frame or criterion set up in 78, and which is still there. We have the example of Catalonia: but though they would endeavour to speak, though they would endeavour to share the course, yet the answer reversals, and, therefore, when they say that the one-sided road is taken, the latter is censured, which is opposed to consent, and this is a direct confession. What is clear here is, and I repeat again, the most important intention of the Constitution, in a manner that was changed from the point of view of the Frianist regime, changing its form, giving it another face, but confirming that all the states of the Fricist regime should remain unmolested. And this was the case, and to this point there was nobility in making some alterations, "but no, no, no." The state of the autonomy. The State of the Autonomy, which was afterwards observed to be a new object with the proposal of coffee: They were in the state and the denial of the nations. The denial of the nations within the state was all fundamental. And there was a plan, a new frame, dressed in democracy or a democracy, and for once these patriots, whether these Basques, for once or for all, are satisfied and no longer give us more trouble. And it's true there was a problem, coming from a problem. There was a civil war where we were coming from the war and then we could get this new frame to keep it quiet and relax. But reality is that the frame placed had no faculty, no choice for those people who regard themselves as a nation, because the countries which Mr. Sémper has said they need not live together, that the part of the land is not a living, but that it belongs to the people. But some people decide to have their own identity, some people decide that they have their ability or right to determine their future, and they decide to work as a team. And this, amongst other things, is the determination of this people, that is, we feel ourselves to be a peculiar people; we also feel that we are a nation, and in it we believe that the inhabitants of it have a right, if they determine thus by majority, to take their decisions, and determine their future destiny. And that's democracy. And then we can go in to the number of numbers, there were very few, if it was the majority or not, if the abscessts took advantage of it to throw it out or not to throw it away. Where is the fear? If the majority of the community decides that the frame now existing, or that frame which is before, which we must follow, we must let it vote, because the most obvious problem is that it is not to be voted. What's the problem? If it is in democracy, and the frame we have hitherto had is the best frame in history, with the greatest freedom, with all our jurisdictions, that we have never had the opportunity here before, nor the quality of our present lives, why do we not allow people to vote? Let me decide? There are ways, too, because, according to what the Constitution says or does not say, it has been shown in other parts of Europe that they make a democracy before they vote for it. And in this case, I mean the case of Scotland, the majority of Scots decided to keep it in the United Kingdom. That's democracy. Let us stop making false speeches and put an opportunity on the table for the people of the village to decide. But that wasn't left in the past and we don't want to leave it now, because it's a very pretty frame, a very good picture, but we don't have the ability to decide our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u43	Good. For our group it was also not a question of the percentages and participation in the referendum of 78, it is the question that motivates us, much less, when we question the current Constitution. I will address Mr Pastor in the first place, because he has said that he is surprised by our position and above all by our position in relation to what the Communist Party decided and supported, and called for the massive vote for the 1978 Constitution, indeed. I am surprised that this is surprising to you today, in 2018, surely it is because the Communist Party never wanted to hear it. The Communist Party 10 years ago publicly explained that it was breaking its part of the constitutional covenant, not by whim, not by a change or by a self-amendment to the whole, but because we consider that constitutional covenant to be broken. The part that was conquered by rights, and I in my intervention have not painted an absolutely black Constitution, for nothing. But they've skipped it all over, they haven't respected it. On the other hand, the parties that introduced the conservative right of this country, which came from a Franco dictatorship, are the ones that have allowed us to maintain a system favourable to the economic elites and, moreover, when partial reforms have been made, have always been against those below and in favour of those above and, therefore, the position of our coalition is not a new position, it is a position that our political left has held for a decade now. Nor do we consider that we live in the same regime as before the Constitution of 78, I said this in my previous speech. It would be a lack of truth and, above all, a lack of respect for the democrats who fought to win rights. But we do not live within the constitutional framework that we think is appropriate for the social majority of this country to have the rights that it must have, and that is what we have come to propose, and that is the approach of our intervention, those are the reasons why we advocate that there must be a new constitutional framework, and it will not be us who will also renounce that we can reach it through a possible way of reforming the Constitution, although I, in particular, believe that we need a constituent, participatory process. In any case, I believe that Mr Semper has said something that is partly right, he says, some want to carry the Constitution, others want to reform it and others want a new one; indeed, it is true. We are proposing a new Constitution and you say that the democratic debate on the framework of coexistence creates instability. You said that, Mr. Semper. How can the democratic debate on the constitutional framework generate instability? We have a democratic debate, we think that the Constitution we have is not the one we need, and we therefore propose that there should be this debate in Spain, and you have an absolutely immobile attitude, you do not want to move anything, you are happy as things are, and we think that it is precisely that immobilisy that creates problems, also in the territorial field. It is this immobilism that generates instability, because it is not true, as you say, that the progress of populism is the one that is breaking trust in institutions, it is the very attitude of institutions that has broken the confidence of citizens in institutions, supported by a constitutional framework that is unable to respond to that, and that is why we propose that we need a new constitutional framework. The constitutions have a vocation of permanence, yes, of course; they have a vocation of permanence whenever they are renewed and ours has only been renewed to attack those below and the working class. That is why we think it is time, that is the time to start the debate. The framework that we have is not valid and, as I said in my previous speech, we can and will have different views on how the process of the so-called transition was going, but, above all, and on the basis of the debate that was taking place today, we are interested in putting on the table what we need is a new constitutional framework that responds to the needs that we have, because the one that we have does not respond to, with which we have only the social and territorial problems will get worse. You say that we have a regime that guarantees rights and you have expressly mentioned strike and work. We have already said that in the Constitution there are rights that have been conquered and that we do not despise, exist, we will not deny it, but we have also verified that those rights are none and the Constitution is not able to defend them. And I will only refer to the two that Mr Semper has defended, that of strike and that of work, where is the right to work in this country? Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u44	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u45	Well, let's see if we're still doing a little chronicle of these from Grandpa's onion, so much for the taste of some parliamentarians. It is true, as Mr Egibar said, that the participation of the PNV and the Socialist People's Party was not allowed, and that was probably a mistake on our part. But it is also true that the views expressed by the PNV were taken into account. I'll read you a text. During the discussion of the amendments, you referred to that subject, before there were other concessions, such as the first additional provision, which is not what the PNV wanted, but in the end a text was accepted with the capital recognition of the indefinite historical rights. Arzalluz explains that voting in favour of the text of the first additional provision drawn up by the UCD "was one of the best things we did, because on the one hand I say yes and on the other I say no, I did what I did by voting yes, vote no, and I did what I had to do, a political move, to keep something in the Constitution." It was pure PNV, first yes and then no, and I take advantage of the two tracks. But the fact is that on that provision you voted in favour, it is true, so I do not understand that if you are telling me on the one hand that you did not vote the Constitution because you were not sufficiently represented in the figure of historical rights that appeared in that first additional provision, how is that the main sustenance that you put on the table, to justify the basic agreement, for self-government? Was it not valid to approve the Constitution and is it valid to change and make another new one and throw it on the ground? That's a little incoherent, it doesn't make much sense. If that was very well, I don't know why you didn't vote for the Constitution, if that wasn't worth it because it was mutilated, how does that mutilated definition serve you now to justify a controlled burst of the Constitution? It doesn't make any sense. We do not see it, of course, logical at all. I will agree with Mr Hernández, in which we do indeed have a full coincidence in which we put into value that great pact of transition, which was not a renunciation. His people, ours, the heirs of republican legality, demanded of us all that reconciliation exercise and yielded much, probably more than anyone else, were the most generous and have always defended the Constitution. And now, it is true, I agree with you that it is time to renew it, to change it, to improve certain things that have not been put in place sufficiently or that have failed. And then, for I am glad to have seen in the rostrum a sort of San Francisco de Assisi, Mr.Urizar, who has come here to share blessings with an absolute political goodism that I thank you for the tone but, finally, you want to stick some things that make no sense to us. I am the greatest defender of democracy, just like you, but you speak of democracy as an abstract concept and you know perfectly well that democracy, even leading up to the most radical of its interpretations, has rules and procedures, which must be respected even in order to change them. That part you skip, skip, obviate, avoid, with which in the end you drop the logic of the argument you intend to use, that goodism. What's wrong with voting? They also say Catalan nationalists, nothing, you follow the established rules and change the rules, if you want to do it otherwise. But they are the ones who allow us to live together. If you dynamitize all the consensus by appealing, that is, something to be thanked for, in good manners and good manners, but cheat on the argumentary, the argument falls by itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Egibar is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u47	Mr. Pastor, II. The Constitution of the Republic and the States of that time did not mention historical rights. That's right, then the war came and a long dictatorship. But as far as historical rights are explained, I have already remarked that the constitution ought to give the order, I say, to develop those forums of 1876, which were supposed to be abolished, and to develop these rights. That's not done. It wasn't, but it was possible. It was no will. But the state says that, independently of what the Constitution says, it does not renounce its historical rights. So among those in the state there are no historical rights, there will be others. No one's ever investigated. What we say is, if you will, that if you have will, there is a grip. This is clearly seen and not only what we have said, but many who have heard it say it. Then Mr. Sémper said: The majority and the minority. Well, recently we had a debate in this Chamber, that the Commercial majority needed to change the state itself, and we are referring to the fact that the Spanish Constitution had 30% of the census. And 53% of the States. There's a difference. That's the difference. And you just say that law, that's 30,8%, that which has votes on the side is immutable, immovable, untenable. I say, well, let's change it at least from the beginning to settle those evils that it has from its birth. What's going on? It's very new here, isn't it? He's got all the history of today, franchise, and I don't know what, and Franco and why, whether they get him out of that valley or not. And when I see him meet every day, how do we arrive at the time of the Constitution? But we forget one detail, very important, which Gutiérez Mellado knew, and it is that Franco won the war and died in bed for 40 years. And there was no Democratic breakthrough. And when we got to that debate, the sound of the sabres and the sounds of the guns were terrible. Why is the article 8 in the Constitution? Why? Tell me, Mr. Sémper, why is that article? Eta orduan, Gutiérrez Melladok berak esan zuen, beast batzuez, Saenz de Santamaria pie zegoela, "here is a lot of democrat against his convictions", "a lot of democrat against his convictions", eta gaur egun ere. And you mentioned it as a threat, keep this and this and that and not a little, but nothing, and we're willing to do anything, we're ready to do anything. Why, for this purpose, we have reached the 8th article, or the 155, or we have just seen how the distribution of power is fostered, and how it develops in this state, otherwise the document of Cosdo is taken, and we see how the Supreme Court is divided. And how the political question of Katalunia is to be drawn, and how it is to be carried out. That's the supply of recipes that come from state or PP. And finally, in this transaction, we're two political parties, and we'll see how Podemos does after his contribution, but I'd like to insist on the vote, or I'd like to, first, second and third points. No, Basqueraz lehen aipatu dut, esaten den: "The majority of the citizens of the Basque Autonomous Community did not support the Constitution in the 1978 referendum". He didn't support most of it. 30.8 Mr. Pastor, you are asking me for qualified majorities to reform the Statute. It tells me that the Statute cannot be reformed unless there is a 60% voter turnout and an absolute majority of parliamentarians here. And you dare say that with 30.8% Basque citizenship supported the majority! No, no one believes it. The Spanish Constitution, which is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, unity, we say, from the imposition and belonging from the obligation, supposes and supposes to build the Spanish State from an anti-democratic and also historically false basis, because such unity was not, nor is it a consequence of the free adherence and will of the peoples. And the third point in which we have participated in a way I think diverse to try to have points of convergence. "A generation cannot subject its laws to future generations. And in this sense, and after 40 years of the current Constitution, any constitutional reform or constitutional process that takes place, must respond to the challenges of safeguarding social rights, guaranteeing freedoms and recognizing and articulating the plurinational and multilingual character of the State in a federal and/or confederal key."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u48	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u49	We have different visions, but we've got federal and/or confederal. Having to incorporate the principle of self-determination into the constitutional text.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Trying to go very telegraphically. Mr. Urizar, understand me, I can't be doing pedagogy here and I don't have a unique didactic vocation either, but I'm going to repeat it to you again. There for the eighteenth century this was solved of the territories and citizenship, it is outdated. I understand that you, in your conception of life and politics, still live practically anchored in the political Middle Ages. But it's worked out, you know? And so what reigns today, at least in the developed world, in the West, where people want to live together, is the concept of citizenship, okay? To be able to manage our differences so that we can live together, as I said before, in public space. Because the rules are not made to respond to emotions, because they are impossible to reconcile, because emotions are as many as citizens exist. What the rules do is, allow those emotions to be protected so that they don't clash. That is what the constitutional rules do and that is what the Constitution of 78 does. It understands the plurality of society to which it is directed and protects its freedoms, it protects its emotions so that they do not clash, so that all can be expressed in public space, so that it can coexist, because otherwise we already know where it leads us, it leads us to war and confrontation, it also leads us to terrorism. That is what was resolved in Spain, as never before in history with the 1978 Constitution. Although there were those who tried to subvert the constitutional order through a coup d'état and those who tried to subvert the constitutional order through terrorism, I insist, in the whole of Spain and uniquely in Euskadi. And you ask me what democracy is. Not only is it voting, it was also voting in franchising, was that democracy? Absolutely not. Democracy is the encounter of many circumstances and factors. Of course, voting is a unique feature of democratic regimes, but it is also the observance of the legal order and the rules of coexistence. The opposite is something else, the opposite is the law of the strongest or the law of the populist in turn who rules and rules the rules according to his own particular interests. We also have an example of where it takes us in other societies and other political regimes. I do not believe, Mr Hernández, by clarifying this, that the democratic debate generates instability. What I was saying was that generational adanism does generate instability. It's just that if you ask an American, you go there with a speech, or a German, you ask him that since the Bonn Basic Law was passed in the 1950s, it turns out that you have to change it, transform it from top to bottom because it no longer serves. Or a Frenchman. Of course, fundamental rules are subject to changes to reforms, of course they are. What can't be allowed, because that does create instability, is to put up the constitutional framework of modern societies depending on whether one has already turned 18 and wants to vote, because he wants to be revisionist with what his parents did. This is what I was trying to share with you and this is one of the fundamental issues on which we disagree. Why does article 8 of the Spanish Constitution exist? Mr. Egibar was wondering. Well, I'm telling you the same thing as Mr. Urizar, I don't have a didactic vocation, but check out the constitutions of our environment. Check constitutions of our environment, but don't go too far, stay in Europe, and see how they also talk about the indissoluble unity of their nations, how they talk about the democratic role of the army in defense of that unity. This is not something that was invented by Spanish constitutionalism in the year 78, it is something that exists to the consolidated democracies of our entire environment, you check it out. And, of course, I say the same thing again, of course the law is not immutable, but if you don't even go to the forums that are set up to change it. In the Congress of Deputies a paper has been made to address a possible reform of the Constitution and the Basque Nationalist Party does not come, do not go, they have given the scarecrow. What kind of reform do you want to undertake or what calm and sensible debate do you want to establish, if you do not even go to the forums that are set up to reform the Constitution? You want something else. You want, by the hand of Bildu... Of course, they are left with the Constitution, because it prevents them from achieving their objectives, which is to divide Euskadi in relation to Spain and divide us to the Basques, some nationals and others citizens. And there is something that surprises me, to finish now, because the arguments can be shared or not, but they must have some solidity. You, over the years in which we have been debating the self-government paper, have based what you want to do with Bildu on the First Additional Provision of the Constitution. And you have said, and you have defended it on numerous occasions, and you have defended it on numerous occasions, that it protects you and enables you to do what you want to do with Bildu, which is to subvert the constitutional order and break the legal and social nature of what Euskadi represents. And today it tells us exactly the opposite. The argument can't be stretched like a gum until you seem to think you're right. You're playing with fire. But they're not playing with fire in relation to a hypothetical court, don't go there, no need. You are playing with fire with something that is even more sacred, which is the plural coexistence in Euskadi, the capacity that we Basques have had over these 40 years, despite the existence of ETA and despite the existence of those who justified ETA, to live together and pretend to be free in very complex circumstances. And it is impossible for your emotion and mine to be the same, and there we will never agree, because the emotions, as you will agree with me, are absolutely subjective. What we have to agree on is rules that allow us to live together, that allow you to live together with comfort, and go if the Basque Nationalist Party lives comfortably, go if the Basque Nationalist Party has lived comfortably these 40 years, of course much more comfortable than the members of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, that allows them to live together with normality and with naturality and freedom in a society that calls itself plural. And that plurality and that serene and sensible coexistence is what you, by the hand of Bildu, are putting at risk, and of course you will have the People's Party in front of you, of course you will have in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, concerning cases of corruption with his clients. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mrs. Macazaga, representing the Podomos team together, has the word to present and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u53	Hello. Good morning. Thank you, Mrs. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Txomin Rentería, director of Bakio with the PNV for 16 years and sentenced to 2 years and 6 months in prison for the crimes of falsification of public document and fraud to the Administration. Gonzalo Riancho, mayor of Muskiz and then councillor of the PNV, sentenced to 7 years of disqualification for a crime of prevarication. Gabino Martínez de Arenaza and Aitor Santisteban, mayors of the PNV, declared responsible for the inefficient management of the urban society Alonsotegi Eraikiz, which involved a hole of 4.1 million euros. Purines case, more than EUR 10 million in public aid squandered and 3 PNV politicians convicted. Margüello case, 10 years of instruction to show that being a personal friend of a PNV health counselor helps to get stuffed. OPE doped, a selective screening model that violates equal opportunities, favoring a few elected. Miguel's case, still without a sentence, but with an argument from the prosecutor with considerations such as the existence of an organized plot to collect commissions and articulated around people whose common connection was the PNV, or the use of practices more typical of Sicily than of a least serious country. These are some of the cases that illustrate a Basque policy where clientelism is a way of understanding the institutions for those who have been in them for decades. On 27 September, the Basque Nationalist Party opposed the adoption by this Parliament of the following text: "The Basque Parliament despises any conduct that involves misuse of public power with the aim of obtaining an illegal profit, as well as any conduct that has at last the justification, concealment or protection of this procedure". A whole statement of intentions by the PNV, with a flight forward in every rule that seems to want to elude the debate. Today Elkarrekin We can bring to debate a non-legislative proposal in which only the Basque Government is urged to commission to the University of the Basque Country a detailed study on corruption and clientelism in Euskadi, and that this study reports on the volume, typology and negative impact on employment, tax collection, the competitiveness of our economy, equal opportunities and the quality of public services, aspects that we have seen reflected in cases such as Margüello, De Miguel or the OPEs of Osakidetza. We also call for a set of recommendations for the eradication of the social, political and economic scourges of corruption and clientelism in Euskadi. It is important that citizens make visible the effects of clientelism in their daily lives; cases such as De Miguel, which involve a breakdown in the public era, are a sign of how corruption enriches a few to the detriment of many. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the fight against clientelism as the predominant model of corruption in Euskadi is the basis of democratic regeneration, political decency and equal opportunities, and in order to eradicate it, all possible material and personal means must be put in place in order to identify, prosecute and condemn it. The trial of the De Miguel case has placed clientelism on the political and media agenda of Euskadi. After years of investigation, we know the conclusions of the report of the case De Miguel and neither for the Police, nor for the Prosecutor's Office, nor for the public opinion there seems to be any doubt: this client network has a common denominator, its relationship with the PNV. In this country being an entrepreneur without a carnet is an act of heroism; investing illusion, knowledge and resources in a project that is not going to be endorsed by a jeltzale is little more than wanting to sell refrigerators in the North Pole. That party that is a friend of the accused has also proved to be a friend of impunity, of not investigating, of being the one that does not want to hear; a party that is a friend of the accused, but not of the prosecutors, who ask them for more means to tackle clientelism. Friend of the companies that distribute the business of the school dining rooms, but not of the families that have to pay the extra costs of this oligopoly, friend of those who have a certain notebook, but not of thousands of opposition people to whom the leaks of the answers of the exams of the OPE were not facilitated. In short, a friend of friendliness, of clientelism, which allows some people in Euskadi, because of their relationship with the PNV, to have more opportunities than others. It has been scandalous to hear from the chief prosecutor, Josu Izaguirre, that outsourcing the investigation leads to failure, that in this country we do not have a real judicial police and when one approaches the surrounding executive, the investigations lose strength, referring to the government of the Basque Nationalist Party. The prosecutor refused to transfer the evidence seized from Miguel's case to the Ertzaintza central base in Erandio and demanded that it be deposited at the Palace of Justice in Gasteiz. Who puts an end to Ertzaintza's investigations into issues of patronage in Euskadi? Such things explain that today in this Parliament, as on 27 September, the PNV is going to oppose the institutions, which it takes advantage of, from looking elsewhere again. This initiative wants Basque citizens to feel defended and protected by their Government. This initiative wants Basque citizens to be proud of the fact that there is no impunity for clientelism and that any kind of corruption is rejected. This initiative wants this Government to stop being silent, silent and looking the other way, and to put black on white the negative impact that activities such as illicit association, money laundering, recruitment fraud, prevarication, fraud, documentary falsity, continued misappropriation of public revenues, trade in influence have on employment, tax collection the competitiveness of our economy in equal opportunities and the quality of services. Because in Euskadi, many people have been enriched by the art of magic, and that has to be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours. Mr. PASTOR GARRIDO: Gracias, president. The Socialist Group is returning to this debate to remember not what it is saying, but what it has been doing for some time now. Because the proposer group proposes the initiative with the slight justification that at the time of the registration two judgments had been known on both cases that a socialist government had already placed in the hands of the courts and on another that is pending from what the judges decide, because a socialist government placed in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office the suspicions that it had, and that, as far as political responsibilities are concerned, this Parliament has already resolved two legislatures, also with our participation. That is why, without prejudice to how many studies this House can ask of anyone who wants to ask them, the important thing is that we ratify today in what precisely points out our amendment: The rejection of any form of corruption, not only as a form of illicit enrichment, but also by the use of public power to achieve benefits illegally; the work that is incumbent on us to complete a law of transparency that ensures that this does not happen again, that it consolidates practices, that we started two legislatures, of access to information on public contracts, and the appeal to all the institutions to cooperate in any complaint or in any suspicion of misuse of public money, which is the money of the citizen. And little more can add this group from these positions, because in this course we have a monthly rhythm of the same debate, to which we will not take away the slightest transcendence, but in which it is evident that there is nothing new, the arguments of both will be repeated. So you'll hear me say practically the same thing I said in September, what my colleague Natalia Rojo said in October, what we said in the last legislature, and what we said and did when each and every one of the matters we talked about, everyone, came to light because a government, Patxi López, that did not pass up a single suspicion without political and criminal contrast, put it in the hands of justice. Governments will have changed, time will have passed, but the socialist position is the same, be it Miguel, Margüello, Hiriko or Purines de Carranza. The political position at the time was clear, we have not half a problem in reiterating ourselves as many times as you want, it is in our facts, and in the conclusions and recommendations in which we participate. But it did seem opportune to us to appeal to ourselves, to this House, because when the suspicious matters that are being brought up again were unveiled today, the Government itself was acting with a series of practices that were pioneering in Spain, and that placed us at the most demanding level of international transparency in terms of open government, practices that are maintained today. And as a Parliament, we have introduced a series of added recommendations that have been implemented, by continuing to talk about the same cases as seven years ago, when the novelty is in legal action, nothing more, is the only novelty; the cases are the same, my arguments too, the novelty is that justice is acting. What we have not made progress since then is to draw up a rule that is at the level of the practices acquired by that socialist government. There is the debate, there is work in progress, and what is to be hoped is that it can conclude with such a broad consensus, at least, as we have achieved at these meetings, in which we express wills and intentions. As we will be heard every time we are given the opportunity, the Socialist Group claims that this law is as cutting-edge as the practices pointed out, and that it allows us to follow the trace of every euro that citizenship pays in taxes and that the Administration allocates to the public services it provides, whether directly, concerted or subcontracted, in the form of grants, grants, grants or scholarships. That is the will that we have come not to explain, but to practice from the various responsibilities that we have had as a Government and as a parliamentary group, and that is where we want to ratify again today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u56	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Congressmen, chief physician. Good morning, everyone. I believe that it is indispensable to the public and to give a minimum of depth to the people, rather than to treat subjects over themselves, and this is what is not just done by this initiative. Andrea macazaga, desiratzekoa izango litzateke gaiak azaletik tratatu beharrean, sakontasun minima battik tratatuk bagenitu. Mrs Macazaga, reading the justification for your non-law proposal, you can see the foundation of it, the scarce foundation, I mean. It's just that there's no justification. That says a lot about what kind of initiative we are facing and what it seeks. We're in the election and the context has something to do with it. The wood is as simple to the Jeltist Party as the simple: wood. What you are tempted to do for the tension strategy is to make one thing clear to you: that your dispositions are so composed of weak arguments, that they serve to strengthen and confirm our arguments. Madame Macazaga, it may be said more loudly, but no more clairvoyant, the Euncist rejects, without the least doubt, the public resources of injustice and ill use for private purposes. You may say it louder, but, as I have said, it is not clearer. The justification of his initiative is based on a controversial and controversial apriorism, without much empirical evidence to support it. But you don't have to either, do you, Mrs. Macazaga? He's just made a sort of shopping list, recited a rosary. It includes in this rosary the OPE of Osakidetza and the school dining rooms as an example of clientelism. He lacks much rigour in his exposure, I would have to tell him, I did not know that there were cardiologists or anesthesiologists who were of the PNV and that these had been favored. Your secretary general, Lander Martínez, already said it three years ago without any judgment of which you have quoted on the table. He said so: "In Euskadi there is a much more entrenched scourge than corruption and it is political clientelism, which is a legal form of corruption – he said it is a legal form of corruption – in which awards and concessions are given to companies like institutions and parties." They were already saying, therefore, they do not need to justify anything now, absolutely nothing. Unannouncedly they put in the same bag the sentences of the so-called Margüello case, the plant of purines of Karrantza and the predictable conclusions of the so-called De Miguel case and, you conclude, in advance, I have to add, that they are, and I quote textually from his initiative, "customer plots of the Basque Nationalist Party". They already have it by default, they've already judged it. What are we left with, gentlemen of Podemos? If clientelism is a legal form of corruption, as Mr Martínez said, how do these cases end up in court? Do you know what we're talking about when we talk about customer networks? Because you've included in that pot All kinds of issues that have nothing to do with each other. We'll have to define concepts. Or is it that they don't care? The same goes for the same thing, apparently. On the other hand, have the sentences to which they refer been read? The same gives them a failed management that irregularities, that client networks, that friendship. It gives them all the same, they include everything in the same bag. Everything is in the same bag when the circumstances and facts that are judged or have been judged have little to do with each other. Everything to endorse his thesis, pre-predivisioned and linking the PNV with obscurantism, with plots and networks. I'm not gonna say we live in the Basque oasis. I'm not going to say it because I don't think Spain and France are a desert either. Now, you have an obsession, I would say, with what is happening in Valencia, Madrid or Andalusia. And I get it. They look back not only at the surveys, but also at the state landscape in which you have settled, and in that context you were born, in that framework you grew and flourished as a Spanish political formation. They keep a game frame that equals us to the bass, in this too. Corruption has unfortunately led them to success and electoral consolidation must continue to cling to that flag because they have no other, they have no other. Move from protest to proposal, but to real proposals. Not like this one that is more – I have to say – effective than effective. Let's go unravel the proposal. The Basque Government is urged to entrust the University of the Basque Country with a detailed study on customer corruption in Euskadi, which reports on its volume, typology and negative impact nothing less than on employment, tax collection, the competitiveness of our economy, equal opportunities and quality in public services. The above study says that it will be presented in this House within a period of not more than nine months and will contain a set of recommendations for the eradication – if I read correctly – of these scourges, social, political and economic. Really, Mrs. Macazaga, do you believe the proposal? Is the initiative believed? Very little time for such ambitious and grand task. Now let's get to the bottom of this initiative. Clientelism has been described by sociologists and polytologists as that corruption of low intensity with appearance of legality and, therefore, very difficult to detect. If that is the case, I find it very difficult that there should be thorough and rigorous studies, first of all, that they should detect it and, secondly, that they should actually tell us what impact they have on employment, on tax collection, on the competitiveness of our economy, on equal opportunities and on the quality of public services. Do you really believe that, Mrs. Macazaga? By the way, what Government Department will be responsible for commissioning such an ambitious study? Because it is ambitious and in turn cross-cutting. Is it going to be a Treasury? Will it be Public Governance? Will it be economic development? I can only think that it has to be Lehendakaritza, because it is so wide its spectrum that it has to be Lehendakaritza who takes over it, right? What we say is: Instead of making studies, let us do our homework, and we have business as an executive organ, which will strengthen the transparency of public activity as soon as possible to accept a law, and which will require a public administration to perform all the relevant information connected with the conduct of the administration. Tenemos abjure leoncia constituida afecto. Pogamos todos de nuestra para testir tell you all. On the other hand, EH Bildu has recently submitted to Parliament a proposal for a law for the establishment of the Office of Good Practice and Anti-Corruption. We will soon be discussing its consideration here. There is a new opportunity for the debate. Effective debate, with proposals, with amendments, with measures, which will affect what we are all pursuing. On the other hand, there's been a lot of proposals in this Chamber about the production of a public prosecutor against corruption in Euscal Autonomy. Although it concerns the Spanish government, we have a new proposition about it, even from EH Collect, in this Chamber. It's all about us, you know, getting in the company of social resources and material resources that we're asking you to do it for me and the Basque and the rest of the administration. Collaboration with justice, as has hitherto been done, in cases of corruption, in order to promote the accusation and investigation. Within a distribution of power, as well as we, as the legislator, both the executive and the judicial power, we have something to say and to do. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction is Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potula Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u58	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. Well, I'll try, see if I'm not too shallow and I can give empirical evidence of what we're talking about. Contract for the granting of a day centre of a residence in Balmaseda and Arrigorriaga for an amount of EUR 400 million for a period of 40 years by the Bizkaia Provincial Council. Adjudicator, Residencias Nostem; president of this company, Cycasa Canteras and Constructions, contractors of works worth more than 500 million euros in institutions governed by the Basque Nationalist Party. Belonging to the board of directors of Nostem Residences, Josu Bergara Etxebarria, the deputy general of Bizkaia, of the Basque Nationalist Party; Javier Ruiz Moreno, who was a lieutenant mayor of the Bilbao City Council by the Basque Nationalist Party. Who prepares the award-supporting report? Look at Josune Solabarrieta, sister-in-law of Iñaki Anasagasti and sister of Maria Esther Solabarrieta, who was Environment MP with Josu Bergara; Javier Alegría Aguirre, who was a councillor in the same corporation as Javier Ruiz Moreno for the PNV. Who was part of the hiring table? The two mentioned above and Marta Barco, member of the Bizkaia Foral Diputation with Josu Bergara in the Basque Nationalist Party; José Ignacio Ortiz Etxebarria, councillor of the same corporation as Javier Ruiz Moreno by the Basque Nationalist Party; Ricardo Sanz, lawyer who brings the lawsuits of almost all the municipalities – at least in Bizkaia – governed by the Basque Nationalist Party, member of the EBB and member of the National Court of Justice of the Basque Nationalist Party. But it's not an isolated case. The Atutxa family, the one who was president of this Parliament – which the Atutxas give for a long time – is a real lobby. Sons, nephews, brothers of whom he was also a adviser to the Basque Government have created societies that have carried out millions of public service contracts. Companies like Alaiki, Ingeplan, IES, IAZ, Ekin, Arkigest, Egoitz Alai... I can go on, huh? I can go on. There are many, many companies and all always related to each other and all related to the Basque Nationalist Party. In all these positions or relatives of the office of the Basque Nationalist Party are awarded in municipalities governed by the Basque Nationalist Party or in institutions controlled by the Basque Nationalist Party. Ingeplan and Arkigest that will sound to you here, was mentioned by the Court of Auditors in the Purines de Carranza case on behalf of the latter. Juan María Atutxa's son invoiced the municipality of Bakio 22 jobs that were investigated by the Gernika Court. Ekin Constructions with auctions for more than 40 million euros with public administrations. Then we have the PNV and the producers. If we go to ETB, it can be seen that the producers with whom she mostly contracts are always the same and many of them have been made up of positions of the Basque Nationalist Party or are heirs of other producers of positions of the Basque Nationalist Party. Example: Prime Time, born of the union of 3 Koma and Irusoin. The other side of the Atutxa was shown in the organigram of the first one. Prime Time is directly awarded programs and equals the audience result of the programs. If it fails, because it cancels the broadcast of that program but is given another, it is immediately awarded another. Or we find producers made up of people who leave the producer to occupy, at once, the direction of the Basque public television itself, such as Baleuko. We also have Asle Seguridad, who is responsible, among other things, for the security of the buildings of the Bizkaia Provincial Council; he did so in full, the 100 points he drew in the award of that contract. It also carries the security of the Bilbao metro, which I will talk about later, and has numerous awards from the Basque Government, being part of it someone who will also sound to you, Don Iñaki Alzaga Etxeita. Construction companies, cultural services, legal services... The examples are innumerable. This is the usual landscape of public contracting of institutions in Euskadi, Mr Latxaga, I cannot give you the rosary, because I would have too many litany, because we never end up if I make you the litany of the whole rosary. In many Basque institutions, many entrepreneurs, if they are not of the Basque Nationalist Party, do not have opportunities, because it seems, I will say, there is supposedly a favor treatment in public awards always to certain companies, in the hands of people always linked to the same party, the Basque Nationalist Party, ladies and gentlemen: being of the Basque Nationalist Party in an award gives infinitely more points than any other criterion. And I have said that on other occasions, it is that many of these entrepreneurs have told me, that they do not present themselves to the auctions because they are already given, and given, of course, to a company of the Basque Nationalist Party. It is no coincidence that it is always the same companies linked to posts, discharges, family members or members of a party that the awards are carried out. It is no coincidence that if one follows up on the recruitments carried out by the various institutions, also those of the Basque Government, the same builders always appear and if one goes to see the organization chart of these builders, there always appear positions affiliated or related to the Basque Nationalist Party. It is no coincidence that if one reviews the awards of contracts for the provision of cultural or social services, societies linked to the Basque Nationalist Party always appear. It is no coincidence that if one reviews the offices responsible for providing legal services to institutions governed by the Basque Nationalist Party, lawyers who are or are linked to the Basque Nationalist Party always appear. They are always in many of those companies, in many of those offices, because there is, as I say, an entire glossary, an entire rosary, call it as you wish, of companies that are awarded contracts and in which membership of the Basque Nationalist Party is the characteristic note. And it's, as I said before, what the most points give, and this is no coincidence, this is clientelism, Mr. Latxaga. This is clientelism. Good thing you didn't do us like Mr Erkoreka, which I was already afraid of, like when this came out I asked him and gave us a whole doctoral thesis of anthropological, sociological, polytological, historical, legal clientelism, call it as I please, it's clientelism and you know perfectly well what it is. And in that, in Euskadi, we have a lot of advantage, a lot of advantage. When three years ago, I asked, as I say, Mr Erkoreka, he wanted to mislead us about what was clientelism and you have tried to do the same, but I think we all know what we are talking about and it is that being in the Basque Nationalist Party is to have a privileged position, and that, not being normal, being serious, is not the most serious thing. The most serious thing is that when you denounce this, you find that it is normal. If you say so, who's going to take it to you? Well, the one with the party is that's his philosophy. It's just that what's serious is that his philosophy is that. So who's gonna take the contract, then? Then who's going to take him? Well, the one from the game. That's the big deal. That you think, just as you think there is a natural right in this country to which only the Basque Nationalist Party can govern, because, come on, I remind you that when Patxi López was lehendakari, it seemed that we had contravened divine laws. How can there be a lehendakari in Euskadi who is not of the PNV? Forgive me, I'm looking like Veja Semanita, but it's the truth. Well, the same thing. In the same way that you consider that there is a natural right for the lehendakari to always be of the Basque Nationalist Party, there is a natural right for the awarding of contracts to be carried by the party, that of the guiding party, that of the single party, that of the Basque Nationalist Party. It's just that we go beyond clientelism, because this is... you think it's the normal thing, because of course, at the recruitment tables there always seems to be a divine hand that directs the manger of public procurement always to the same place, always to the same companies, in which curiously there is no need for such a thorough investigation, with which one goes to Empresia and begins to see what the formation of the board of directors is, and one then compares it to the lists of the Basque Nationalist Party, listen, sometimes mimically overlaps. And then it's already about the fabric of one being in one company and in turn that company is in another, but all of the same and all linked to the same party. We do not propose an amendment to the Podemos initiative because we agree, because we do believe that in Euskadi it is necessary to analyse cases of clientelism and corruption. And I'm telling you, it's not that complicated. That's right, I don't know if it's going to be enough with nine months, that's what I'm telling you, because there are so many that, of course, you see the Official Gazette, it pulls the thread, it goes to the other, and it's everything, because everything is intimately united, with which, me with nine months... it's the only doubt that I put on this initiative, because I don't know if it's going to give time, but I think it's necessary to put the media, that it's necessary to put an end to the patronage that exists in Euskadi, which is, I say, patent and that everyone knows it, and that everyone knows it, and that there's nothing more to go on the street to tell you. And it is necessary to inform about the effects that this clientelism has on employment, as Mrs Macazaga has said, on collection and, above all, with equal opportunities. Because in Euskadi today everyone, everyone who is not of the Basque Nationalist Party, I mean, is not on equal opportunity. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u59	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u60	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament, good day to you all. As we are seeing it, it is interesting to see the activity of the clenic network which Podemos has brought here together today, because we believe that the conduct of our country is very present and almost natural in this part of our country. And I would like to begin by reminding myself of a concept which we have attempted in the last controversies about corruption and improper practices: To obtain benefits which the public power is not permitted, there is a definition of corruption, in which the difference between legal and unlawful corruption is implied; And most of the clitarian nets are under legal and legal frames, so we'd be talking about legal corruption in most cases, not in all cases, but generally. And therefore it is not often supposed criminal offences, though it be a very improper and abnormal practice. And of course the central problem is, of course, a very disturbing one, but even in our belief that this practice of introduction in society is common, and how it is received as normal, and its causes are of many kinds, so that we confirm when we say that we need a democratic hygiene, and we confirm it even in that idea and plan. Democratic Hygiene for what? Well, I'll give you an example. In those waters, which do not rise again in slow waters, there is more probable or more familiar appearance of contagious elements generally, especially when the activity of these men is around, especially because the thickets, rotten branches, mud, and filth are thronged, and, unless the rain falls, the new water or the pure water, will be there at last. And they'll often come here and there, sometimes or sometimes. Thus they will appear, if they do not take measures or avoid it, if they do not work in these parts of the river, and we, as we have collected EH, work, work, and propose measures, so that those water-waters, which terminate in corruption and mud, may not appear or exist. And in this sense it must be understood, that about 50 augmentations made by our groups in the law of Gardeny, which has been mentioned in the law of Garden, the initiative which has been introduced to the disappearance of ten important quadals, and also to the origin of the office against corruptions, as a proposition to be made in the Euscal Autonomy against corruption, and of course for the next month. A series of measures, concrete initiatives, which we have been proposing to prevent, among other things, the generation of such stagnant water wells that end up contaminated, such irregular practices, chanchullos, customer networks, revolving doors and, of course, other forms of corruption that are often transcending due to their criminal consequences and their consequent media impact. And today, Elkarrekin Podemos brings an initiative that has given us the opportunity to debate precisely about customer networks, and if we approach this debate, even if it is very briefly, from a more scientific point of view, it can be determined, without a doubt, that in the current partisan system there are such customer networks and it is not a new phenomenon, since from the ancient Rome, the Middle Ages or the Old European Regime also existed, and that is that this is an issue that has been being studied from the scientific-social sphere for decades. It is a socio-political phenomenon that has been studied, at least for the last six decades, by social scientists, as I said, of various disciplines, and this in some way demonstrates the multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary nature of the subject, and in some ways this is evident and remains evident in the original proposal that Podemos has brought today to the Basque Parliament, where in a somewhat disordered way, everything has to be said, it talks about employment, it talks about taxation, it talks about economic competitiveness, it talks about equal opportunities and it talks about the quality of public services. And I comment on this because it seems to me important to highlight the complexity of the issue because of the number of areas and disciplines underlying it and, therefore, why it means addressing a study and developing a study on these issues from the university teaching field, and that it goes beyond what is published and existing today and so far, and that it goes beyond what is merely a theoretical plan. It seems to us, as I said, to be an interesting initiative, but very little elaborate; it seems to us to be unserious in its content, more oriented towards the search for a photo than to establish real mechanisms to end customer networks, and in this sense, it gives us a little pity that today we are not going to approve an initiative that could be effective, because how they operate, how they are organized, what are the most common forms, the sectors, the routes, the volume and the typology, etc., is more than studied and there is nothing more to see than the data that Mrs Llanos has presented to us here today. There are countless bibliography, there are publications and authors who have studied it, by the way, quite a few of them related to the university, and the majority conclude that it is necessary, on the one hand, political will and, on the other hand, more resources, and you today do not speak in your proposal of any of that, of any of that. But, as we have already said at the beginning of the discussion, it seemed interesting to us to-day about the clitian network, but it seems to us even more interesting to see what follows from the reading of the amendments. In the principal institutions of the Araba, Biscaia, and Gipulia, in those institutions which are most of the contract and representative of government, both the Jaltists and the Social Party have acknowledged and you are confessing that at the present time the Chernomys are operating in the Renaissance. And even the lawyers of the "Mortal Forzalu" and "Bazkako" accused them about a lot of members of the "Eu des Jeldile Party" involved in the case of De Miguel. They've all seen criminal signs. You know, it was like, "You know, the lawyer's been bothering me." It has been asserted that it is very evident that money was unjustly used against public interest and public interest. And that's why we're saying we need a Democratic hygiene. For de Miguel's case is owing to the accusation of a particular individual, not by the accusation of administrative or institutions, because there has never been and there has never been enough political will to end these corrupt practices yet, a firm attitude. And the EH Collect will continue to demand proposals which take measures and resources, working for a democratic royalty. The two parties with responsibilities of government in the main institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community, in those where more money moves, more tenders there are and more contracts signed come here today to confirm, to admit, you are confirming and admitting that there are customer networks that currently operate in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And, as he said in Basque, the lawyers of the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council have ratified it with the accusation made following the case of Miguel to members with responsibilities in the Basque Nationalist Party in those years. They are accused of being directly responsible for crimes of misappropriation of public funds. And says the Basque Government itself, that abuse is credited for illegitimate interests and against the public interest. We are, ladies and gentlemen, faced with a plot. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in front of a network. And that's why we say over and over again that we need democratic hygiene. Because the De Miguel case is part of a particular accusation. It is not part of an action of the Basque administrations and institutions. Because there has not been enough political will to date and there has been no firm and forceful attitude to end certain corrupt practices. And that is why Euskal Herria Bildu will continue to bring forward effective proposals that collect measures and consider resources. We will continue to work for a democratic regeneration. And it is a pity, as I have said, that I did not bring a more serious and more elaborate proposition to an end with such practical measures, an initiative which contains effective measurements here today, in this Chamber, in the Basque Act, to be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. We'll go round the answers, represent the Podemos team, Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u62	Yes, thank you, Mrs. President. Mr Latxaga, I have to congratulate you on the rigour of your speech, because, as I had hoped, you did not say anything. But I see Bildu's hand as a new partner, also in this of clientelism, and we will already discuss the observatory if they come to bring the debate to this House and not just the photo with a press conference. We're talking about a study today. Mr Estarrona, you could have enriched the proposal and you have not amended it. Today the PNV is presenting a full amendment to our non-legislative proposal with which it seems to want to whitewash the refusal to adopt the one of 27 September. But they are late, and this is what they are asking, "to reject any misuse and unlawful use of public resources for private purposes", already approved by Parliament, Mr Latxaga. "Commit to pass as quickly as possible a law that strengthens the transparency that had been in force for years." All the groups present here work in the same paper to draw that law, Mr Latxaga. You urge "the Basque Government to continue, within the scope of its powers, to provide the prosecutor's office in the Basque Country with material and personal means, which it considers appropriate to improve in the exercise of its functions and to combat the misuse and illegal use of public resources for private purposes". Continue to dodge, Mr. Latxaga, have you heard the prosecution? Mr Otaola, a lawyer from the Basque Government, has accused one of the defendants, Mr Sánchez Robles of embezzlement, but he does not, however, seek prison sentences. Of course, if you have a carnet you can not only benefit from contract bites, but they put you on the red carpet when they catch you. Mr Otaola mentions the President of the Second Republic, Mr Manuel Azaña, to talk about the officials, but he has no idea what Mr Azaña would say about the high offices. I encourage you to support the initiative that has been presented by Unite Podemos in the Congress of Deputies for the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Euskadi, because already in 2014 the then superior prosecutor of the Basque Country has already declared the need that Euskadi will have such a prosecutor's office. I do not know the reason why today, November 29, 2018, such a prosecutor's office has not yet been created, when autonomous communities such as Catalonia, Madrid, Balearic Islands, Andalusia, Murcia, the Canary Islands or Valencian Country already have one. And it has also been shown that when there is an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, that is, when there really is more material and human means to detect, judge and punish cases of clientelism and corruption in general, it is when more cases arise. Because, in fact, there are no territories that are essentially corrupt and no others. It is not possible to diagnose the level of actual corruption only through the number of criminal proceedings under way. A vital issue, such as resources to combat the waste of public resources that clientelism entails, cannot be in the hands of a person's individual decision and criterion, but must be ensured by law. Therefore, pending an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, I invite your group to vote and also EH Bildu in favour of this initiative in the Congress of Deputies, and in the meantime in this Parliament and until this arrives, let us carry out a study that gives us a clue of the scourge that the client networks installed in Basque society in Euskadi by a party that has made its cape a test with the institutions that are of all and of all, Mr Latxaga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u64	I would like to reiterate, as I said in my first speech, that all these cases that this initiative brings about today are in the hands of justice because the socialist government of Patxi López has made the political decision to do so. And they're there for that reason and not for any other reason, so I'm not going to allow Mr. Estarrona's veiled accusations of connivance and I don't know what things. This is here because we are committed to the government in which it was, not to anyone else's actions. And what we wanted to do with the amendment is to try to reach the maximum possible agreements. I understand that everyone wants to point out here a little bit and take the water to their mill, we think it is more important to ratify the agreements when they are broad-spectrum and that is why we express our amendment to reject any form of corruption, not only as a form of illicit enrichment, but by the use of public power to bring benefits. And we are betting on a serious work in the paper in which, as Mrs Macazaga said, we are all, to try to ensure that the law establishes the best guarantees, so that these kinds of assumptions are not given and that they consolidate genuine transparency practices such as those that began two legislatures ago. And an appeal, which seems to me important, to all the institutions, all of them, to cooperate in any complaint or suspicion of misuse of public money. I will not deny that we have been trying to make a compromise amendment agreement with the proponents. And that, frankly, we have come across a position, which we believe to be somewhat intransigence, of not admitting that we are voting by points. I can understand Mrs Macazaga's arguments not to accept it, but it is true that Parliament has always had enough parliamentary courtesy to accept the point vote, because in that vote each party sets its own nuances and also portrays itself, but at least it is allowed to reach large agreements. I am sorry that it was not, but of course we will continue to bet on the amendment we have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u65	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u66	Yes, good noon again. From what I have heard so far, I draw a conclusion, Mrs Macazaga. They're starting the election campaign. And I am sure, as Mr Pastor has said, that we will see a multitude of similar initiatives in the coming weeks, in the coming months. But not only an election campaign, but also a defamation campaign. I understand that instead of being a spokesman for his political group, he's going to touch you, and he's been touching you lately, he's been holding on to you. Of what Mr Pastor said about the negotiation of a transaction or its intransigence when it comes to being able to vote for points, in some way I believe it is something that portrays him and that highlights what his intentions were from the beginning. His intentions were not to bring this initiative forward with the support of the Basque Nationalist Party, in whole or in part, but simply to leave in a corner, to marginalize the Basque Nationalist Party, that was his true intention, and not, and now I have to tell Mrs. Llanos, not to do that study somehow. This study, for which nine months is indeed going to be little, especially if we have to focus a little on everything that has to do with competitiveness, tax collection, employment, equal opportunities and so on. I think that, as I see it, this study is going to promote measures for the eradication of these practices, which Mr Estarrona has said, come from the Middle Ages or even before, it seems to me to be a very interesting study. I have, I would be interested, if this initiative were to come out, to see its conclusions really. I think Mrs. Macazaga is cheating, too. He cheats because he tells many half-truths, which are the greatest of lies. With regard to the work that is done in the paper to move forward with the Transparency Act, I know first hand who works to move forward with it. And I won't say any more. I know who works to get her out and who doesn't, okay? And the agreements that you referred to, that we have refused to vote on some issues, some issues, obviously set traps in solitary. You know perfectly well that on that occasion in the plenary of September to which he referred, it was taken as the dish of lentils, the takings or the leavings. It was also done as you want to do now, that the whole initiative has to be voted on and it was not possible to vote for points. We have no problem, we have no problem in saying what we have said in this rostrum. I wasn't going to address Mrs. Llanos, but I'm going to. And there would be a lot to say, Mrs. Llanos. You have to be legitimized to be able to talk about an issue like the one we're dealing with here today, and you're not. Let me give you some advice, grudge is not a good partner for nothing in life, and less for the public thing. It seems to me that Mrs Llanos has in some way also quoted a litany, a rosary, I don't know how to describe it. He has recited again and has not spoken at all, he has not spoken at all about what we are voting here today. Of the blessed study, of the famous study. You have merely recited a number of questions, that if the board of directors... that has its channels but has not dedicated itself to illustrate to us what the bottom of the issue is. And with regard to what will be voted on, Mrs Llanos. Do you really want to promote a UPV study on customer networks in Euskadi? Do you really want to do that? Because the measure can cause anger and cause We can promote similar initiatives in other homes. And see what you're gonna say. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all work, first and foremost, with rigour and responsibility, without trying to achieve political profitability from alleged irregularities. However, we will not hesitate to go ahead with any strategy of defamation that has occurred, and which in passing discredits our institutions by starring some other number that I believe shows a clear lack of respect for the political formation that I represent. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a strong yes to a law that strengthens the transparency of public activity, a strong yes to effective measures – effective, Mrs Macazaga – that strengthen the control of public action in administrations. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u68	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, the truth is, what I wouldn't have thought was that I was going to have to direct Bildu at this point. Mr. Estarrona, it seems a lie – I would never have believed what I am going to say either – I miss Mr. López de Muniain, who was a big fan of me, but on this subject... Because I no longer know, from what you have explained here, that you have also given us a historical vision, what a desire with the different visions of clientelism, a historical vision has retreated to the Romans nothing less. But I don't know. As it turns out, you're going to vote against it. I do not know whether it is also in the country agreements to look elsewhere or whether, as you have already stopped waving the walnut, you are now going to spread the nuts among all. But the truth is, it's a surprising thing. Mr. Latxaga, I don't know why you're saying anything about grudge. And at least as far as I'm concerned, I don't know why he says about the electoral issue because the same thing I said here today, very much like I said in November 2015, that I don't know what grudge I could have at the time and that I don't know what elections there were. But come on, very similar, very similar. And you're not the one to hand over legitimacy. But if we talk about legitimacy, you don't have it either. Or what? That the Miguel case as it has been here... Is that what you're talking about? I left myself the sheet I had sent to photocopy, the isolated cases of PNV corruption. Listen, two whole sheets, and come and come of corruption, which I have spoken of clientelism in my intervention, of corruption. And what you want to see is that there is a happy Arcadia here and that there is no corruption here. I don't know, it's just like they want to give you another name, because as they're also experts in naming things differently. But corruption here, too, and corruption here, yours, yours. Then, do not say again in this rostrum that the People's Party does not have the legitimacy to talk about these issues, because then in the following topics that you bring up on this issue, you cannot get out either. Neither do you. You tell me that I... is that I can tell you the glossary, is that if I start, it's that I finish the five minutes not, the 15 whole saying companies, the 15 whole! Because I've told you about Bizkaia's, but here are Katai Consulting, Stoa, Iron Construction, Loizados Construction, Landaburu Etxea and I don't follow, because it doesn't give me time, it doesn't give me time! This is clientelism. I'm talking about clientelism, always the same and always the same game. And of course I want the University of the Basque Country to do that study. Of course I do! That it's complicated? Yeah, I'm telling you, it's complicated. What can be done? I'll tell you what you can do, too. We with a computer, my partner the spokesman at Bizkaia General Councils with a draft and the Official Gazette, hey, a mine, a mine! Of course, you don't like conclusions that much anymore. And they tell me it's just that I haven't devoted myself here to talking about the studio. Look, I've devoted myself to talking about why it's justified for a study to be done. And you take it all to the Transparency Act. That sounds very good to me, really, sounds very good to me. But the Law of Transparency, less evil that you are not alone, because if you were alone, the Law of Transparency that could come out would be like that of your ethical commission, a John Palomo, I eat it and I eat it. I mean, less bad that you're not alone, let's go, because if not, I tell you, as your ethical commission, Juan Palomo total. Of course it's necessary. Look, I told you in the previous debate in 2015 that if you could put, in that transparency exercise, the contracting companies of all the institutions of Euskadi, in a screen, that you put company I don't know what and get out all the... well, that would only show who works in this country, who is awarded the works in this country, who takes the contracts, but those of constructions, social, cultural, legal services. I'm telling you about the legal services from experience of something that happened in the Bizkaia District Council. The same always, which are in different companies, is that this is not an octopus. It's just this is, come on, a sea of octopus, all with its ramifications. And in clientelism, I've told you before, we're the champions. But Basque clientelism, moreover, has an idiosyncrasy of its own like everything we do here, its txapela, its label, and is that elsewhere it hides but not here, they boast of clientelism. One says this without blushing because, as I told you before, the worst thing in Euskadi is that it seems normal to you that clientelism exists, to you it seems normal that the only ones who work, that the only ones who take the awards are – who are going to be – those of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u69	Thank you, Miss Llanos. EH Collect, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u70	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Llanos, don't worry, really, don't worry. Euskal Herria Bildu has never collected walnuts that may be rotten, ever. In Euskal Herria Bildu there are different political families that have a broad and extensive tradition that has been governing in different institutions, parliaments, municipalities, joint ventures, etc., and Euskal Herria Bildu is a guarantee of zero, zero corruption. So, don't worry so much because we can go pick up walnuts that may be rotten. Anyway – and this is already a bit in the personal realm – I'm going to tell you that I remember that when I was four years old my girlfriend gave me a nut and I planted here, on Enrique Eguren street in Vitoria-Gasteiz, I planted a nut in a pot and today that walnut, 34 years later, is in the village of Etxabarri-Ibiña giving some wonderful nuts in a very healthy way. And, if you want, any day of these I'll go through your Bizkaia headquarters and leave you a few to try them out. And, Mrs Macazaga, I said in my speech that next month we will bring the bill for the creation of the good practice and anti-corruption office, the bill that we have tabled in this House and next month we will bring in for processing. But there is another series of initiatives that are under way, or at least that are already being set up in this House, such as the one you presented at the beginning of your term of office on the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which you are doing nothing together with the People's Party to get it going, is being set up. And you, through the non-processing and implementation of this law, have allowed, among other things, Mrs Macazaga, the President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, Mr Bilbao, who has a lot to shut up and a lot to hide, by himself, has been renewed to continue presiding over that court in the coming years. It is convenient – and this already goes for you two, for Mrs Llanos and Mrs Macazaga – to listen carefully to what is said from this atrium before drawing hasty conclusions because we and we have said that it is a pity, and I have said that it is a pity that we are not going to adopt here today an initiative that could be effective. But Euskal Herria Bildu will vote in favour of this initiative, even though he knows that its effectiveness will be very limited because everything he has to do, everything that comes to clarify the chanchullos, the corruptelas, the customer networks existing in this part of our country, will be welcome.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u71	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula team, on the fourth line of the Bilbo subway. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mrs. Llanos, is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u72	Good morning, again. Once again we ask this House for a ruling on line 4 of the Bilbao metro and we believe that it is true that we have already requested it on other occasions, and in April this year we reached an agreement unanimously in this House, but, in response to the reply given to us by the Counsellor, Mrs Tapia, in our inquiry, of course, we believe that it is even more necessary than then to pronounce this House. Although the truth is that it seems that the agreements that this House is taking on board by the Basque Government are not to be taken into account because the agreement that we reached in April has fallen into a broken bag, and, moreover, when that agreement was reached in April, some played with the cards marked. As we said in the inquiry, on April 12, 2018 this House unanimously reached an agreement, a very clear, very short agreement, in which the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Transport Consortium were urged to formulate for 2018 the informative study of line 4 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, Moyua-Rekalde section, guaranteeing a participatory process, and to collect in 2019 an economic appropriation sufficient for the elaboration of a constructive project of this same section. But this has not been achieved. Moreover, when the Basque Government gave the approval to the groups that supported it, in particular the Basque Nationalist Party, because there is no support here for initiatives without the approval of the Government, that is clear, they gave a false approval because at the same time they gave that approval they were carrying out procedures contrary to the approval they were giving. In the advance of the Bilbao Metropolitan PTP, specifically on page 53 of the memoir, it says: "Continue with the planned development of the Bilbao Metro network with the construction of line 4 of the metro, Rekalde-Matiko, and line 5, Etxebarri-Hospital". Well, in July 2018 the director of Transport Infrastructures of the Basque Government sends a letter to the director of Cohesion of the Territory of the Diputation telling him that line 4 of the Bilbao Metro must not appear in the future PTP of Bilbao Metropolitano that is being elaborated, since it has no reference in the conclusions of the existing railway PTS in Bilbao and Bilbao Metropolitano, nor in the current PTP of Bilbao Metropolitano, which is now being reviewed. He says that for metro line 4 to appear there should be an institutional agreement and that the metro solution for Rekalde should be defined which, so he moves, is not, but what is defined is the option of the tram ring. And he mentions an informative study, yes, pointing out that it is the priority of the Department of Infrastructures to carry out an informative study of public transport alternatives of the center of Bilbao and that it will include the assessment of the needs of Rekalde and Irala. This letter is from July 2018 and this is the study, a study that leaves the metro line 4 parked, to which the counselor referred, both in the presentation of the budgets and in the response to the inquiry that she gave me. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what is an institutional agreement? Does the agreement of this House, the agreement at Bizkaia General Councils have no value at all? For according to the Basque Government's communication, it seems confirmed that the agreements adopted unanimously, as I say, adopted unanimously in April in Councils and Parliament, have no value for this, because they consider that there is no institutional agreement. What is institutional agreement, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party? What is decided in this Parliament? What's decided on the boards? What is ultimately decided by the representatives of the Basque citizens? Isn't that an institutional agreement for you? Is it not for nothing, even if this agreement is approved unanimously? Is there no institutional agreement, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, even if you vote for it? When they voted for the agreement in April this year, they were aware that the Basque Government was going to literally pass that agreement, which, as I said in the interpellation, was brought to the pair by the agreement that we reached. And I wonder, what happened? Did they get the OK to vote yes to the deal, knowing it wasn't going to be done? Did you guys cheat, too? Or were you the ones who tricked us all into not losing the vote, but were you also aware that the Basque Government had no intention of taking account of the agreement adopted here? Did they also tell you, as in a hallway someone was told at Bizkaia General Councils, to vote whatever you want here to do nothing? Did you guys say that, too? Because that's what the lady came to say the other day when I answered our question. You're not gonna make the subway. That's your word, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party. You are proving that you have no word, that the word of Basque you cannot use it, because you are not reliable. They are not to be trusted in the long term, because 10 years later they still do not fulfill what they promised, and if they have not fulfilled what they promised 10 years ago and have had 10 years to fulfil it, if today that is worth nothing, then, man, what we approved in March, one wonders, of course, what value it will have, even less so. For you less yet. And this is corroborated by the draft budgets for 2019 and the letter to which I referred earlier, which, as I say, was forwarded by the Director of Infrastructure and Transport of the Basque Government to the Director of Cohesion of the Territory, telling him that the Bilbao 4 metro line should not appear in the future Bilbao PTP. And, as I say, he was talking about that informative study. A study, which, as I told the counselor and I want to repeat it again here today, tried to tell us that it was the one that had been agreed here. No, she's not, she knows she's not, and we all know she's not. That the study that she announced in the budgets and with which she answered me in the inquiry, has nothing to do with the study that we agreed here in March and that we again ask her to agree again. Because what was then remembered and we ask again is an informative study of the Moyua-Rekalde stretch of Line 4 of Metro Bilbao. That's what we agreed in March. That is what the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party voted for in March, I do not know whether they were deceived or trying to deceive us, but of course knowing that they had no intention of doing so or of doing so. Because what is clear is that if they claim that line 4 does not appear in the Metropolitan Bilbao PTP, because the intention on the part of the Basque Government and also the Basque Nationalist Party is that this line is not a reality. And here we bring this initiative to avoid it, to put our granite sand so that the metro does reach Rekalde, so that the metro reaches the rest of the neighborhoods of Bilbao, to those of the south. Because they deserve it, because we think they deserve it. Because they're not second-rate neighbors, because they've been waiting too long, because, as they say, it's not a whim, it's a necessity, because the 70,000 neighbors in those neighborhoods don't deserve more promises, they deserve certainties. Because, as the interpellation says, Bilbao is the Basque capital with more social inequalities. The difference in income between the different neighborhoods is notorious; the average in Bilbao is 20,300 euros, but while in Abando and Indautxu the income reaches up to 35,000 and 34,000 respectively, in the southern neighborhoods of Bilbao, as for example Iturrigorri-Peñascal, is the last, it remains at 10,000 euros. These inequalities not only extend to income, but also have less equipment and worse public transport. And in Rekalde this issue, in the neighborhoods of southern Bilbao is palmaria. The lack of transport, the difficulty of connecting with the rest of Bilbao and the rest of Bizkaia, in addition to the mobility of the neighbors, makes the neighborhood unattractive for the possible businesses that could be installed. The neighbors have collected signatures, they have manifested themselves on many occasions, the last one last Saturday, and they are announcing new calls, new calls for what they promised 10 years ago, 10 years ago and I will not make a glossary of the different milestones, because you have already heard me, because you know it, and because above all the Basque Government knows it. But he doesn't care. He doesn't care if they promised, and he doesn't mind leaving all those promises and all those projects on wet paper. And I say again what the neighbors say, it's not a whim, it's a necessity, because they're right in their demands, because it's normal to ask, what happens? That Bilbao's neighbors aren't all the same? Aren't they entitled to the same services? Why do I, who live in Indautxu, have not one, but two subway stops two minutes from my house, and a neighbor of Rekalde, of Irala, of Peñascal, has none? Why do you have to make a pilgrimage if you want to go to any other point in Bilbao, or any other point in Bizkaia? A pilgrimage! There is talk of responsibility for spending public money. Why is it responsible for the subway to reach Deusto and Rekalde not? Why is it responsible for me to get to Moyua and Irala? Why is it responsible for the Old Helmet passing the tram, the bus, the metro and Euskotren, and there are no duplicities there? And instead in Rekalde yes, and we have to study the duplicities? And put in this thesis, why is it responsible for the subway to get to Getxo and Galdakao? Because I want to make a point in relation to line 5, because Galdakao's neighbors have also announced a demonstration for this Saturday, because they also feel deceived, they feel neighbors don't know if they're second or third. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, it is seen that, as I said, you have no word, that gives you no accords, no commitments, no citizens, and you come out here on many occasions to this rostrum to talk about non-compliances, and your mouth is filled talking about non-compliances, that is, of course, of non-compliances of others. Because, what do you call the Basque Government to promise 10 years ago a subway line that was going to reach Rekalde and we're worse off than at the starting point? Surprise me, Mr. Zorrilla. Surprise me, to see what language term you use. As you call on him to vote one thing in March, that this agreement does not comply with it, that I also do not know if when you voted for it, you do not know, but the Basque Government knew perfectly well that it was not going to comply with it, that it was on wet paper, and that now you are planning something radically different. Isn't that a breach? Surprise me, surprise me to see what you're gonna call that. Why, when there were other institutions, such as, for example, at the time, the Spanish Government had budgetary difficulties, could it not argue that it had these budgetary difficulties? And if there was talk of responsibility in the use of public funds, then it was answered by you that there is no commitment to Euskadi, there is no commitment to Euskadi. So, applying your reasoning, gentlemen of the Basque nationalist party, what do we have to deduce? That they have no commitment to Rekalde, to Irala, to San Adrian, to the neighborhoods of southern Bilbao? You are nationalists rather than political leaders, and all of you, as Fuenteovejuna, because Mr Rementeria demonstrated it yesterday clearly, is jeltzale before the deputy general. That if the party tells you forget about the subway, come on, he forgets, like one man, the first. Nothing, no subway, no line 4, no line 5, no nothing. If that already, where the transport in Bizkaia does not now arrive, a study is already done, right, to see what is more profitable, to see how public resources are used well, to see how it is responsible, that is, always with certain neighborhoods or with certain municipalities. It does not defend it and it bends to the designs of the party. And what do we call that? What do we say, that's coherence? Consistency, because the truth is that, yes, Mr. Rementeria must be acknowledged that he has coherence, because when this point was taken to the General Councils of Bizkaia, he did not vote, with which he cannot say, I am against my own..., because he did not vote. I do not know what exactly happened to him that he could not go to the vote, and that point did not vote. With which he, well, I don't know if calling it coherence, at least with himself is consistent. Of course, with the citizens of Bizkaia, consistency shines because of their absence, commitment shines because of their absence. That's right, the subway doesn't get to Rekalde, but we did a Supersur that looks like Castellón Airport, as you're going to get it out of me, I'm going to get it out. That's a Castellón airport, because people get into Supersur when they get confused, if not, they never get in, never. That's right, it was vital, vital, and money was buried there, I don't tell you how much. The BEC, we made a BEC, because the one we had in Bilbao was small, we are from Bilbao, we were small. And we had to make a bigger one. Empty, Machine Tool Biennial and a few more things; it was filled earlier when Bilbao Basketball matches were held. Most of the year, empty, and it also cost. But that, the Supersur, the BEC, is an efficient and responsible use of public resources. Let the subway get to Rekalde, no. We'll almost think about it there, because... Look, I think it's about time those who 10 years ago are waiting to see, not since it's over, at least it's starting. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u73	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, all of you. Well, we're here today to renew our agreement on the 12th of April, to tell you again that we're on behalf of this project. We have come to ratify the unanimous agreement reached in this House on 12 April and I believe that in the terms it was perfectly fair and measured, and that comes out of what one has been defending since the minute the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra and the parliamentary group of the Basque Socialists in this House has been defending. An agreement that was clear in three terms: first, to formulate the information study throughout this year; second point, to launch a participatory process; and third, that there would be a budgetary allocation in the budgets, in this year's draft budget, to draft the constructive draft. I think it was clear, and in this sense the Socialist Party has not moved half a millimeter and today we are once again ratifying, as I said, that agreement which we reached unanimously by all the parliamentary groups on 12 April. And we believe in this project, not today, but from the minute one, from the minute zero, when it was us, through the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, who started this project, who laid or laid the foundations of this project during that legislature. A project that has to be believed, as I said, we believe it and throughout this process, throughout all these years it has always had the support of the socialists, in all the institutions, not only in this Parliament, in the Basque Government, in the General Councils of Bizkaia, in the City Hall of Bilbao. Why? Because we believe that we have many reasons why it is worth the fact that this project is a reality, for which it is worth the Socialists supporting this project. First, because we understand that the construction of line 4 of the Bilbao metro, which would join Moyua with Rekalde, is cohesive to the neighborhoods of Bilbao. It is a good opportunity to connect the neighborhood of Rekalde, Irala, Peñascal with the center of Bilbao, but in turn also to connect it with other neighborhoods of Bilbao Because, in addition, it will allow those neighbors also to have a connection with other means of transport, with other lines of Renfe, of proximity, also that it can interconnect with lines of other kind of public transport, as can be the bus. Therefore, it is a connection of those neighborhoods with the center of Bilbao, of that neighborhood with the rest of the neighborhoods of Bilbao, but also with the rest of Bizkaia, also with the rest of Euskadi. Secondly, because we understand that it is a clear bet for public transport in this country, because we understand that it is a clear bet for public transport to the detriment of transport or private vehicle; because it is also a bet for efficient and sustainable public transport, which will allow for improved frequencies, which will allow shorter journey times from that neighborhood or from those neighborhoods of Bilbao to other parts of the city. Thirdly, because it also favours the economic development of neighbourhoods insofar as it connects these neighborhoods with the rest of Bilbao in a much more efficient way; therefore, it is also an opportunity for the economic development of that area. Fourthly, because it also enables economic development projects to be undertaken on the basis of the development of this metro line, which will also enable urban improvement projects to be undertaken that will improve the quality of life of Bilbaons and Bilbaons. And fifth, which is most important, which responds to a historic demand from more than 70,000 neighbors in that area. We understand that this is a good opportunity to boost the neighbourhoods of Bilbao and, specifically, the neighborhood of Rekalde, Irala and Peñascal. Therefore, the Socialists are going to be there, we have never moved from those parameters, we have never moved from that bet and today, as I said, we have ratified it again here, just as we have recently ratified it at the Bizkaia General Councils or that we have ratified it at the Bilbao City Council. That is why we come here today to say that we maintain our commitment, keep our word given and understand that today once again we have a good opportunity for us to unanimously ratify once again in the agreement that we reached on 12 April and to promote among all of us an infrastructure that we understand is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. Donez. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u76	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Again, Mrs Llanos brings us to this House for its debate on line 4 of the Bilbao metro, in this case following the inquiry lodged on 9 November, the purpose of which was to know whether the Government had given itself and how it complied with the agreement adopted unanimously in this House on 12 April and what the Government's intentions were in relation to this issue. In this respect, the report on the degree of compliance with GNP, motions and resolutions adopted in the first half of the year was entered in Parliament's register on 30 October. The report stated on the agreement as follows: "At present, the brochures of the new information study on line 4 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway are in the drafting phase, within which a period is established to guarantee citizen participation and how to articulate it within the drafting of the information study. The tender for this informational study is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2018; the studies on the strategic planning of Bizkaia's single transport authority are in writing." On the other hand, last November 7th, the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure presented in this House the draft budgets of that Department for 2019, where she explained that for 2019 there was an informative study of public transport in Rekalde, Irala and the whole of the southern area of Bilbao, L4, for the amount of 1,050 million euros, and then the corresponding constructive project will be undertaken on the basis of the same heading, that is, that the And in the inquiry filed on 9 November, he gave him a full reply on the state of the matter, responding days later in the same sense to written and oral questions from other parliamentary groups. That, in our view, was the answer to the question raised in his question, another thing is that he did not like what he heard, we imagine that this is why today he has brought the motion to debate and we will talk about it again. A Member of Parliament here a few months ago in this House said that any political leader in this country has to be clear, in the sense of not promising what he can't do, and honest, to tell the truth even if he doesn't like it. And I also added to him in that plenary that it is necessary to be responsible and act with seriousness and rigour, and today I would add something more, some more virtue, such as loyalty and respect for the commitments signed and made. And we can say with a very high head that our political representatives have done so, both in past and previous legislatures, when it was stated that the Department's investment efforts were going to focus on the completion of line 3, which, by the way, you were also demanding, Mrs Llanos, and in this legislature. I don't know if everyone can say the same thing, there everyone with their conscience and responsibility. Our electoral programmes are very clear. Our 2012-2016 government program says "progress in the development of metropolitan and tramway rail transport systems in the capitals and their environment of influence". I will not repeat the actions carried out since 18 December, which have already been shown on several occasions. The government program of this legislature expressly states "continue with the studies of line 4 and 5". We therefore understand that the commitments made by the Government are being implemented. There is a constructive project being carried out, the Moyua-Matiko section, and not precisely thanks to the amendments of your parliamentary group, Mrs Llanos, in which there are substantial variations due to the change in the planning of the work of the Moyua station, which require a new information study to be carried out, reworked. And, in the meantime, new situations arise that can become opportunities for improvement. And, in this regard, we support the ambitious attitude of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructures, to want to give greater scope to this study, and hence our amendment of the whole, extending the scope of the information study from line 4 to all of southern Bilbao, including Zorroza and Basurto, taking into account the existing railway lines so that they can be optimised, where appropriate, in the definition of the definitive solution or alternative. There are some situations that have changed since last April and that justify our amendment in its entirety, and although the Counsellor explained them, I believe that, even if it is quickly, it is necessary to repeat them: On 24 October, the definitive solution of the underground arrival of the TAV to Bilbao, to Abandonment, was signed with the Minister of Development. Then the unknown of how and when was cleared. This was also to imply a new station for the railway line between Abando and Santurtzi, which gives service to the Left Margen. There is a line of metric width between Basurto, Hospital and Ariz, which runs in the environment of Rekalde-Irala, which last Monday has been transferred to this community. And there is also the permanent demand for the transfer of the Balmaseda-Bilbao line, which requires studying what service can be given out there and integrating it into the overall solution, in addition to the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan developed by the Bilbao City Council and whose measures were presented in June this year. As the adviser said, an informational study of the best possible rail public transport for Rekalde, for Irala, for the neighborhoods of southern Bilbao will be carried out. And, so that there is no doubt, he said "with conditions and metro quality, regardless of the color with which the service is provided"; that it has quality of service and sufficient frequency, are the premises on which they work. It is therefore clear that the Government has in no case ruled out line 4, but is open to all alternatives, studying the costs and scenarios in which investment can move, and transferring such alternatives to the sphere of institutional discussion and public participation with an integral and inclusive vision, to seek, as I said, the best possible and feasible solution for Rekalde, for Irala, for the southern neighborhoods, including Zorroza and Basurto. In short, the best solution for Bilbao. We understand that when it comes to mobility issues, not moving a single apex does not seem to be a virtue to highlight. The informal study, it has to do analysis about economic, social, environmental income. To do this, he must examine all kinds of transport, to give the best service, as a public method of capacity and quality train. When we're working on the 4th Metro, we can't just check that out. On the contrary, it must be part of an integrated transport system. We believe that the whole transport system must work in an integrated and co-ordinately, without integrity. Hauteskunde-program ari garela, Llanos andrea, zer dio PPren hautskunde-programak? You said we promised. Tell me – in the second round – which election program of the PNV or which government agreement formed by the PNV mentions that promise, as you say. What did your election program say? In his electoral programme, in terms of infrastructure, he says, also with careful terminology, that "we will address a certain bet – he says – on lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro", but he also says in the same section of infrastructure that "they will effectively manage public resources and review under budgetary efficiency criteria works that are in the design phase". Is that your consistency, too, that I mentioned? Then we'll be in a hurry. On 12 April, we were presented with a motion calling for the construction of the Moyua-Rekalde section, without having the informative study, that is to say, bad advisors in the field of transport. And today it comes to declare, proposes to declare line 4 priority infrastructure accelerating its construction, priority. What's wrong with him? We understand priority, the dictionary says: "that has priority or preference over another". Mrs. Llanos, put to demagogy, which seems to be what you like, what is the most priority for you? The completion and commissioning of the high-speed train or line 4? What is the most priority, line 4 or line 5? As you said, there are many infrastructures in which this Department is working. Therefore, in the second round, answer these questions. He was also talking about a July 27 letter, which, by the way, is on the internet, if he goes online and puts on Google "line 4 metro Bilbao", this letter will appear to him, that is, that it is no secret letter. But here he's mixing things up. The letter does not say that, what it says is that it cannot be done like this, it says "every new proposal, solution defined in the selected mode in your case – and it says "(train, subway or others)" – must be agreed between the different institutions". And of course, we might think that this is the 27th of July, but I think the first thing we have to do is go to the planning instruments in force to put forward an infrastructure and the instruments in force are not from yesterday, nor before yesterday; they are the 2003 Bilbao Metropolitan PTS and the 2006 Bilbao Metropolitan PTP, which say what they say, so look before you state what they are, what they are and what it is, and to include or not in an infrastructure what needs to be done. For that, the informational study that studies all alternatives is needed, and for that it is the studies. Our commitment, as we have said repeatedly, is for the integration of transport systems, seeking to make the economic, material and human resources for transport efficient. And for this it is necessary to have a comprehensive planning of the same and to see the economic and budgetary availability. And this comprehensive planning, as discussed in the previous plenary session, of how transport should be in the historic territory of Bizkaia, is to be done in the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, which is carrying out the strategic reflection with this integral and inclusive vision. We share the words spoken yesterday by the Member-General of Bizkaia that we must give priority to providing the best possible service in good quality and in good times of frequency, also said the Sailburu Recently, Mrs Llanos, at the beginning of this November, a report by the OCU says that Bilbao has one of the best public transport systems in the Spanish state among 21 cities analysed. They receive the highest scores on the tram, the subway and the buses, analyzing parameters such as punctuality, the level of agglomerations, the coincidence between stopovers and information on screens or waiting times, and this is not a consequence of the inertia to which Mr Alonso referred last Friday, Mrs Llanos. This is the quality of services we want and we must provide to the neighbours of Rekalde, Irala and the southern part of Bilbao. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the race that has not issued any correction is yours, together Podemos, Lord Martinezinón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u78	Yes, good morning, thank you. Well, it's already been said. But we've got the subway back to debate here, and I think we all have to think about it, ask ourselves why. Why has the inhabitants of the South of Bilbo been waiting for service for so many years? How old? 25? Ten? Five? How old? Aren't they worth it? I ask in front of this Chamber. It's not a whim. Mrs. Llanos explained, she lives in Indautxu and has a subway; I lived in the Old Helmet and had a subway; I lived in San Ignacio, had a subway. 70,000 people are not without a subway, without efficient transportation, but obviously without a subway alternative. But it is true that all that has been accomplished in these neighborhoods has been fought through history, that they have not given them anything that they have acquired, everything that has been accomplished in the southern districts of Recalides and in the South of Bilbo has been for the sake of fighting. Isn't it time to do justice? Isn't it time to do justice to Rekalde, to Irala, to Peñascal, to southern Bilbao? They are not whimsical, they are neighbourhoods of workers who deserve a good public service. And, it has already been said, for social justice, it's not a whim to take the Barik and get on the subway and get to your workplace in a certain time, it's not a whim. And all those neighborhoods have gotten is a fight. They dropped the only French mayor who left office and they'll make Bilbao's subway, despite the PNV, despite who weighs it. We came to a deal that was tested in April with a single mouth, and it's been read, that deal was very clear, Moyua-Rekids, and the investigation in 2018, we'll see it in the first months of 2019, and that's where it was supposed to be made in 2019, that's all there was to be a trial. This one was tested, I have to get back out of it, this one, the same paper. You EAJs and the members of the Social Party that you've been in the government as far as you're concerned, you've broken these, you've broken this. Today we sign, well, we'll protect PP and the middle of the addition made by PSOE, but you've broken this up so far, you've broken this. Neither us nor P.P. nor anyone else. The Chief of Tapia and the EAJ spokesmen now say that all the transport system in Bilbo, all the southern transport system, must be reviewed, didn't say in April. Mr. Rementeria says, he said yesterday, that there is no money, no money for the subway, but for the southern dealer. How much money do we put back to the trash? Two hundred million euros more en varatre sur, February 200 millons o más, 200 millos, para una cartera que no necestamos, que se demutera que unerto que la Supersur. It will be empty and you know it will be empty. And besides, we'll spend a lot of money, but you'll end up with the only natural reserve left in Bilbon, I'm talking about Bolinchu. I invite you to go to Bolinch this Saturday morning, there's an exit to see what the new dealer will do. That's why there's money. And so far, EAJ and the Social Party have done it at the same time, because you share the government here, in Foru Aldundia, and even in the City of Bilbo. Today we are going to protect this middle-class, but it's the last time, Mr. Aduza, that we support you together. I think it's okay what you do today, but you have to make real commitment. Baina, begira, apirilean era sinatu genuine akordio hori, bath Llanos andreak atera du, uztaileko eskutitz hori daukagu, Foru Aldundirak Gobernuari zuzendutakoa. Eta hemen esaten du argi eta garbi "that the Bilbao metro, line 4 does not correspond to the planning instruments and, therefore, does not agree that it is not introduced in the revision of the PTP". That's what Mikel Gurutzeaga Zubillaga says. That's what they say. Then excuses, new excuses. They didn't show up last week at the Tapia chief when we tried it. You're saying AHT Bilbor's coming in for Abandora? How long do you know that? The agreement is one thing, but how many years we've all been saying and you've been telling him that AHT Abando would come. Another thing is the final constructive solution, but when it came into the Abandora, what's the point with the Abando Reekld? Osea I think you'll meet Bilbo. I think, but that doesn't make sense. Then you say, Cecanías on the left, And I repeat, what has that line to do with the fourth line? You mentioned the FEVE lines, the Bilbao-Balmased and the goods. Yeah, it's a transfer, but how many things have been done at Bilbao Ria 2000? Couldn't this be done? And why then did you test that April as well? Why? You didn't know this? We've made Bilbon, the Abanbar, some things will be done too, well, not Bilbao Ria 2000, but also through interinstial agreements? You didn't know all this? Well, at least that's what I'm thinking, whether it's about the people or the House, it's a lie from EAJ. And then again, yesterday, at the General Assembly, we heard what Mr. Rementeria had said in the Big Courts of Biscavia. He said, "que Rekall no titée por qué necessian solucioness no soterandas," You have to have a jet, a concrete face armed to go to Rekalde to say that Rekalde doesn't need ununderground solutions anyway, when it's been asking for decades to eliminate the callextric Unsubterrated solutions in Rekalde, it's just, it's fabric. And, on top, the only natural space that we have left, whole, in Bilbao, on top we will put it with a stain of cement, porlanez beteta eta Bolintxurekin akabo egingo du prorektu horrek. I repeat, excuses, excuses, lies-yes, lies are spoken and lies are signed in this parliament. And I repeat, we'll vote for this middle-class, well, we agreed with the original motion, and we agreed to it. I repeat, I don't understand why some things were said in April and now they have changed for the last few weeks. I don't know why, I don't understand why there are 200 million supersur and there isn't enough money for an infrastructure that's supposed to be useful to the inhabitants, but I don't understand it. And I don't understand why, I repeat, because I feel cheated, why in April we signed something, with one mouth, and it's changed from EAJ. I think that we have a common opportunity with other parties, with the Socialist Party, the Popular Party, we'll see what EH Collect now says about this subject, and I think we have a chance of an agreement, even though EAJ does not want it, to take it to all the institutions, take it to the East, Illala and Peñascal, and all the Southern districts deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Martinezilion. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u80	Good morning again. Well, you asked me if the deal will come out and the deal will be done, because EH Collect will be abstudated in this transaction amendment. We're not going to vote "yes" and we're going to abstain from it, and the reason is a variety, right? Where does this conflict start, or where does this story of L4 start, right? This starts because some politicians talk too easily, and they sell smoke before things get tied up. And this is the starting-point often, isn't it? For a few votes and all, well, they make promises without any technical consideration, without being presustacious games and, well, this is hobby. And, well, that's a bit of Ernesto Gasco, who was the viceroy of those days, the result of a promise made in his own time. And from these sayings and promises come the circumstances of the present day. We see that Bilbo must be cohesion. You have to guarantee the cell phone. That it is not possible, either Bilbon or nowhere, that the citizens of the first rank and secondary rank should be, because all must be connected with the centre of connection, and the South must have a worthy connection, is it not? That's what the rebels are doing. They're fighting. We've seen four thousand people in the street this weekend, four thousand people have made a demonstration, and it's a very significant figure, and this infrastructure would in some way guarantee the motion of a 70 thousand people. I mean, we're talking about big numbers, we're talking about a lot of influence, and we think we need to respond to that influence properly. This check must be done in a serious way, and we defend the Basque Country from Union, a serious management. Serious management means that we must join with a process of cooperation, with citizens, neighbours, different institutions, and a strong technical basis. And we think that was missing. All these years, since the promise of that infrastructure has been made, it's been spent a lot of money, and we're talking about 4.5 million Euros. L4 and L5, but especially between L4's different projects, right? It seems to us that this funding must have some results in some way. That there must be some results, that political agreement is a great one, the decision which this legislature has taken on the 12th of April, was unanimously adopted, and I believe in different institutions, both in the Biscaia institutions, and even here, that we all in unanimously defend the need of this substructure. Now, what we say is that we can't sell smoke again, that we can't make promises again for a few voices, and plans for a sudden subjugation of subjugations. We must take this project seriously, see that we must make a serious study, as we agreed on April, and we must look for technical solutions according to the results of this serious study. And to-day we need a serious study, which is not done, and which is very little advanced from the aperilile. Once I say that, well, because of that promise of that time, I shall look a little to the right, because I think it was founded on improvisation. I don't think there's been any planning, any planning on this infrastructure, and some other things, that you've entered the office of promises, and that you didn't have the political courage, and when we're in the management of public money, we need political courage. It takes political courage to go to the citizen and say, we have budget skills, we don't have enough money or any other informative projects that were working for this infrastructure, technically, we're studying other alternatives, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. What's going on? When we're still selling smoke and selling smoke, we're still doing this politics. We continue to do this politics and become slaves of our words. What's going on? Now, when Mrs. Tapia makes the production of the budgets in 2019, those promises that had been made up a little until now get dynamited in a way, and then she kicks the ball again, planning without deadlines. And, klaro, that's what we do for Loiu at the same time as a million dollars for an airport connection. And then the anger of these people is a very logical question. I mean, is there any money left for Loiu? I mean, if there's money for businessmen coming from Madrid, but we don't have money for all those people who have to move in Bilbo every day? The technical solutions for some are very simple and missing for others? Where are all the studies and projects that have been made since 2010? Shouldn't we take advantage of them? Should we take advantage of that transfer blackmail now to throw the ball back in front of you and continue with the indefinator? That's the only thing we've got to offer to the residents of the Recks and the Southern South of Bilbo in general. Is that it? I think it can't be that. Besides, we know that on the Territorial Plan Terential Metropolis, there have been motions in July, and that the Euskion of the World has been a plan for escaping L4 lines out of that plan. We know that. So when we see that, we are not really sure that there is will in the South to give such a solution, or at the head of those who have something else. And I think we all would be grateful for the rest of the groups we're here, but especially if the citizens did, we'd all be grateful for a little clarity. Then it would be my proposition: let us stop selling smoke, let us make an informative study, let us examine all the alternatives that are together with the citizen, and together with a member of the process which will be really remative, and then see what is the best project of construction, for to-day I think it is to deceive the people. And it seems to me that from the responsibility we have, the least we have to do is to cheat the people. The people, and especially these neighbours, and all the neighbours and citizens who are waiting for a infrastructure for so many years, deserve two things: one is not to be deceived, and the other respect. So in that sense, we've bet for a responsible abstinence. This for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u82	Mrs. Ugarte, as my children say, dead has left me. Dead. I don't know. I guess he won't mention us about promises and selling smoke, because this infrastructure our group has been carrying in their electoral programs for a long time. What happens is that we have not ruled in order to make it effective. You say you can't sell smoke, you have to be very serious about public resources, you have to do a study. Go to Rekalde and tell them all that, go to Rekalde and tell them all that, because that does sound like selling smoke. You're talking about there hasn't been a participatory process. Look, I and other groups have been with the platform that supports this line 4, of which are neighbors, traders, platform that has been with all the institutions, and to all the institutions to which he has gone he has told them the same thing, which is the need for this line. It's just that he reminded me, with the subject of the study, that he knows perfectly well that that's not what was voted for in March. That it wasn't a study! The study of the platform on line 4 was voted upon. That he bought the speech from the Basque Nationalist Party! It must be that country agreements lead to everything. But it is that you have copied it up to the way you make the speech, that ambiguity so peculiar to the Basque Nationalist Party, that neither meat nor fish, is what we have seen in your intervention so as not to support – which is what you are going to do here today – Line 4 of the Bilbao Metro, Line 4 of the Bilbao Metro, Mr Zorrilla. That's what we approved in March. I have left here the compromise amendment that you signed; Moyua-Rekalde section, information study of the Moyua-Rekalde section. Look, you know perfectly well what we approved, and, of course, you have tried to get us to paste that informational study of the Moyua-Rekalde section that comes to the end, I think, then will tell you just like Mr. Andueza who had it, the study that of seeing the needs in Rekalde and how it has not collated... If you can teach me what you want, you know perfectly well that we were talking about the Moyua-Rekalde stretch, the informative study and, after the informative study, the constructive project. Today it is up to you to publish the report because, as you think you have to fill in to say no, but you have to fill in the ten minutes, the report of Moyua's change and that they come here again, that now – as you have said, and it is true, the representative of Podemos – as you arrive in Abando, news, come on, new news, that the AVE enters Bilbao by Abando, as we have known, you have to change it. You talk to me about responsibility, seriousness and rigour. So hear yours for responsibility, seriousness and rigour. And he talks about loyalty to the commitments made. Really? You have the face to come here to talk about loyalty to the commitments made, you who vote one thing in March knowing that you are going to do the opposite, because in March we all debate and we all agree on that stretch and you talk about that already, well, metro no longer, railway, as it goes along the tracks, as both go along the tracks, then railway. And, as Mr. Rementeria said yesterday, "And what are you going to have to be buried for? For what? The neighbours of Indautxu, as I have told you, we deserve the subway to go below, the railway – call it as I please – to go below. Not Rekalde's, Rekalde's if any, they already have a train, that they conform, that the train is already buried, is that it costs a lot of money. And you're talking about social responsibility for infrastructure. What's the matter, that it's not socially responsible for the subway to get to Rekalde? Isn't he socially responsible? And you tell me about my election programs. Look, I'm telling you that we've been suing this line, it's that I remember riding, you know what the chu-chu train is? Yes, he does because the Basque Nationalist Party in all election campaigns pulls a Chu-chu train out into the street. For we took out a chu-chu train to sue then line 3, Otxarkoaga-Rekalde, which I went with Mr Basagoiti and Mr Damborenea mounted on that chu-chu train, since then we are demanding that line. And of course we said that managing effectively, and managing effectively is using the money, not the Supersur, is using the money on line 4, which doesn't have to be incompatible with line 5 or the high-speed train, which is what you're trying to do. What you're trying to do is confront Rekalde with Galdakao, and you say, "Oh, we only have money for one." No, they've been waiting too long, much longer than other infrastructures that are coming up because, listen, let's talk about hurry, really, I just don't know, it must be, I don't know, if it's in Spanish or in the Spanish dictionary that you have definitions that make them different. Because I call it a haste at 10 years, come on, in the concept of the Spanish that I know is not, but come on, I tell you, the Basque Nationalist Party has a different dictionary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u83	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u84	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. I don't think it's serious. You know perfectly well what you voted for and you can tell me now sung Mass and in Hebrew, since we have become so clerical, but you know perfectly well what was agreed here in March, that is why it is necessary to bring it back, because what was agreed here in March, which is what the neighbors want, which is reasonable, which is what can guarantee you, indeed, to have quality of life and to have a connection with the rest of Bilbao and the rest of Bizkaia, is that line 4 of the metro, not of a train, not of a little car that goes over the track, not of a meter, that is what Rekalde is guaranteed because they deserve it and because a responsible and effective use of public resources is to do line 4 of Rekalde. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u85	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Well, look, the socialists have a calm conscience, very calm because we have not moved from our position at any time. We continue to defend what we have always defended and have the conscience, as I said, calm. We are speaking, we are consistent with the efforts we have been making in the different institutions. We are consistent with what we have defended through our electoral programmes, both in the municipal and fora, and in the autonomous ones, and we are perfectly consistent with what the government programme establishes. Therefore, we continue to defend exactly the same thing. And we have no reason to stop. Hori ez da gure stylea. Guk beti defendazzen ditugu jartzen ditugun gauzak. Socialists, as I said, keep our word. We are responsible for what we say and, in this regard, I have come today to defend the position of the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. Each one who defends his own, each one who portrays himself according to what he is going to vote on today. I'll be clear. We have always understood that the extension of Bilbao's metro, the extension of Bilbao's metropolitan transport, is a priority. We keep doing it and we keep defending it. Therefore, as the movement is shown to be moving, we are in favour of further progress. Today it has come to my mind, pulling from the sitting paper, what some parliamentarian defended in this very rostrum on April 12th and I will read it because I make those words of mine, it was not I who said it. Everyone will know who said it, but I defend it. It said: "In the electoral programs of the last legislatures and in the subsequent government program appears line 4, therefore, I understand that it is a bit contradictory if it appears in the government program that this is not a reality." Well, it's true, I defend it, I'll keep defending it and I'll keep maintaining it. Others do not know what they will do, I answer to what my group is doing, to what my group is defending and to what my group is voting for. We continue to defend what we have always defended. We do not need to look at the horoscope to know if we have to vote on one thing, we do have to vote on another as other parliamentary groups do. And the other day Mr. Martínez, in the question he was asking the counselor, asked: Where is Mr. Andueza's signature? Where's Mr. Andueza's signature? Mr Andueza's signature is here, which has not moved a millimeter of what he defended last April 12. I think we've proven that we have a word through that signature, and I don't think you can deny it. Finally, Mrs Ugarte said that a serious process involving the social partners is needed in all of this. Of course, that is why we have been demanding, not today, but also since the 12th of April, the holding of a participatory process during the processing of the information process as well. We are in favour of the neighbours participating. They've been involved before. If you have to rejoin, take part. Every time I need it. I believe that it can obviously give more plurality, more seriousness. Less serious? I don't know. More plurality yes, that is why we defend it, that is why it was in the agreement of 12 April and that is why it is in the agreement that we have signed and that we are going to approve today. It is logical, of course, that there have been changes from the first that was approved, from the first that was launched to what can be projected today. There have also been changes in other projects, such as the arrival of the high-speed train in Bilbao. We have to adapt, we have to adapt, and I understand that it is much better to adapt those projects to the realities that are emerging. I believe that, once all these incognites have been clarified, we are at a perfectly appropriate time for the constructive project being drafted to be appropriate to these new circumstances, to new infrastructures to be built in Bilbao. I, as I was saying, will defend what my group defends. I'm not gonna stand up for what others stand for. Everyone will see how they stand and what they stand for. But, of course, I believe that, while it is lawful to change the position, I do not think it is very serious to try to change the vote, to change a position by throwing stones at other groups and, perhaps, within this coherence, everyone has to defend and have to argue why they have changed that position, why today they will not defend the ratification of an agreement that they signed, that they approved, that they voted in favour on 12 April. And to me, what do you want me to say? Today I would have liked some to have ratified what was approved on 12 April. I would have liked them to have said loud and clear that they bet on this line 4 of Bilbao as a priority within the extension of Bilbao's metropolitan transport, and, above all, I would have liked some to have clarified whether their priority is really this line 4 or put other lines ahead of this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u88	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, listening to Mrs. Llanos talking about Bilbao Metro it would seem that it was she and her group who in the 1980s pushed its construction, but as you well know it was not so, because this was, I think we should remember, a clearly decided bet of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. You were talking about coherence. Let's see, I'm going to talk briefly about its coherence, I've told you about what your electoral programmes say, to which I referred, and I also told you, in the 2015 budgetary procedure, that it wasn't with the Chu-chu train, your group voted against an amendment fucked up between nationalists and socialists of 1.743,000 euros for Moyua's constructive project to Matiko of line 4, remember that, right? Well, he voted against it. On the other hand, last year, in the process of amendments to be agreed with the Government for abstention and to allow the approval of the budgets, they put in an amendment of 100,000 euros, 100,000 euros, nothing to do with other of their agreed amendments, and the budgets, where 2.5 million STDs are collected, are not going to approve them, for I say to you, they must be a matter of priorities and coherence too, this must be a matter of priority. The principle of responsibility makes it necessary to analyse all variables, economic profitability and also economic profitability is social profitability, because the priorities of government, as you well know, the first priority is to maintain social services, to maintain education, health and social benefits, and then economic recovery. You seem to be lying, coming from a party that has had government responsibility, that you can afford to sell smoke, as was said here before. He talks about post-reporting, he likes to use the word, post-reporting I think you have not read our amendment, because you say you signed it knowingly that it will not be done. Our amendment is very clear, he says that the information study on line 4 should be carried out, extending its scope to the south of Bilbao. Therefore, we are not saying that line 4, not much less, not much less. And well, I called the Chu-chu train to what is now line 3; you can come to remind the neighbors of Otxarkoaga, which was a Chu-chu train. [[Words]] Regarding, I'm sorry, I'm speaking, Mrs. Llanos...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u89	Llanos andrea, mesez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u90	I respect some of the issues raised by the representative of the Socialist Party of Contradictions and I think he has read some of my statement of 12 April. Well, the truth is that I didn't want to enter into that debate, but promise in 2012 that the works will start and that they will be completed in 2016, leaving the government without having finished line 3 and knowing the economic situation, that it has multiplied by 10 in three years, I don't know if by inertia, that said Mr Alonso, and that they had cancelled the award of a tram that would be running today and providing a better service, not that of the metro, but a better service than that currently held by the neighbors of Rekalde, Irala and others, because I believe that we all have to look at those contradictions as well. With regard to Mr Martínez, from Podemos, well, let's also talk about his electoral program, because here they come from saviors, they come from saviors of social injustice, from transformers... "breaking agreements"; I also do not think that I have read our entire amendment and what your electoral programme says, which is very interesting, that I believe it is an electoral programme of 2016, that is to say that they already knew all the history, all the social injustices, all the shortcomings they had, of 898 measures that collected their electoral programme, only nine referred to sustainable mobility and infrastructure, and none of them to the Rekalde metro. Well, no subway, just Donostialdea's, to say no, and it's very interesting what they said. It says, "a mobility system –tell Rekalde's neighbours – it will be sustainable and viable if it is based on non-motorized transport; all other proposals – and they specified – electrification of public transport, intermodal platforms for connecting trains, metros, bicycles and trams, are complementary to this central idea." And the only time, as I said, that appears in his proposals the subway is to say no to Donostia's. Therefore, consistency, and go to Rekalde's neighbours and tell them what their true approaches are to sustainable mobility and infrastructure. Don't come here and get the hang of the fact that you're Rekalde's saviors. And I am drawn to his narrow vision from my point of view, and he also told the counselor: how it affects Rekalde's neighbors, Irala the arrival of the high-speed train to Abando, which has been said here, it was known that it was going to arrive, but it was not known when and how until October 24 of this year. What does that have to do with anything? It seems a lie, you have once said that you lived in Irala, because we are facing a scenario in which the Abando station is going to be the intermodal and interoperable center of Bilbao, and probably Bizkaia, for all transports to the Left Margin, Encartaciones, to the outside. It is therefore very important to bear in mind that perhaps the neighbours in this participatory process, that task that you are doing today or that you approve of declaring Moyua a priority to Rekalde, perhaps with the passage of time and these new situations for those who live motionless, because perhaps you see this new situation as an opportunity, and the same reference center has passed or can go from being Moyua to being Abandoned. We don't even say no. You're saying no, Moyua. We say that all alternatives should be studied, and that the best solution should be seen. Because we understand that the competent institutions will act with responsibility, rigour and seriousness, yes, Mrs Llanos, as they are acting, in order to satisfy the mobility needs of the neighbours of Rekalde, Irala and the rest of the neighborhoods of the southern part of Bilbao, as I said, looking for the best possible solution for these neighborhoods and, ultimately, for Bilbao, for Bizkaia and for Euskadi. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u92	Yes, thank you. I'm really sorry about EH Collect's Absence and I don't understand it, I really don't understand, I don't understand, I don't understand, I don't understand, but I don't understand how on Saturday there was a Councilman at EH Collect and now abstice. I don't understand. But, well, I'll take care of it. We tested serious check on the April, an informative investigation, a building project, and I and my team have been serious in this matter. I think this is a serious management, you yourself said that 4 million and figs have already been spent in studies, research, different buildings, and we also accuse that we spend so much money, and that that's why we say that this is the last thing we said in April is an informative investigation and a building. That's what we're talking about here in April. That's why I'm saying I don't understand. And because I'm going to stand for this agreement, I think it's responsible that we're being careful and that we're taking care of it, and above all we're taking care of it, and especially that the neighborhoods of the Realcian have plenty of time waiting for us for a few yards and a good transport. And Mr. Andueza. Well, yes. He answered what I wanted with his signature. That's it, and it's recognized, and I'm glad to hear the answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u93	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u94	And I hope they remain consistent. And that on other topics also the signature they print in some other transactions because it is not repeated, that they are consistent with what they say on the street and with what they say in their program. On this occasion, then, Mr. Zorrilla spoke of plates, as he medals for you for stamping the signature here. I have no problem with signing either with you, Mrs Llanos, or anyone, or supporting this transaction, because that is what we approved in April, is being consistent. And I think that, in fact, this should not be new on my part, nor on the part of anyone else. And, Mr. Zorrilla, hurry. Take it? Ten years? Imprisoned since April? Since when? I am glad that the electoral programme has been read. We're not new, but we're also learning and, above all, something that we can't, not even Elkarrekin We can, but the trajectory we have; you have the 2016 program. No, no, there's a trajectory. And I sat with the neighbors and neighbors and I was saying, well, in '96 we thought one thing, but, seeing the new proposals that there are, the studies that come out, the projects that come out, because we are willing. And over the years we have changed our position, the one that had United Left in its moment, I say it here, I say it here so that it remains in the record well reflected. But changing the position since April... What has changed since April? One thing is the year '96. I was nine years old, too, so as not to change my position. But since April, have you changed your stance since April? That before it was not known that the high-speed train was going to arrive in Bilbao on such a large track beach in Bilbao and that it was going to arrive in Abandon? Didn't you know? We did not know that there was a line of goods that passes, look, now that you said that I lived there, lived in front of Ezkurtze Street in front of a beach of roads that has been unmade for years and years, curiously the one in the center of Bilbao was covered with understanding and that of Ezkurtze we took years and years in which those roads were covered by a problem between the City Hall, the Government and the Basque Government. It's done, but how long did it take to cover those tracks? I knew him perfectly well, the goods that passed or passed there. The Government knows that too. That in April already knows, that there's a line going through here, that there's a line close to Margen Left. You will also know what is in the territorial plans about the possible futures of the vicinity of Margen Izquierda, of his plans, not mine. I think all that is known. All that has to be changed from April to here? Well, I don't think so. And savior plates And if there were other solutions, I don't care, I don't care if they cheat on me, but don't fool the neighbors of Rekalde, Irala, Peñascal, etc. Don't cheat. I don't care, I don't care personally, but I think we need to be serious and we need to be serious and serious about this. If what was worth in April, because now it's also worth because there's nothing new, it's that there's nothing new. If we've discovered a failure in I don't know where, it has to change the whole project. Okay, well, we studied it. But the transfer of FEVE tracks, a proximity line and the high-speed train that's going to get to Abandon? If we have seen reports in newspapers for 15 years, Sunday after Sunday it will arrive and what the station will be like and it will change and so on. But what does that have to do with the subway line?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u95	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u96	It's the station, not the line you're talking about. I mean, don't make cheap excuses for something that is radically changing what was approved in April. What was approved in April – I say again –, study of the constructive project 2019 and, from there, do the Moyua-Rekalde line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u97	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u98	Mrs. Llanos, you always call those on the left populists, don't you? They are, they certainly are, but you don't stay short. It's not short. And I'm gonna give him a zero in math today, okay? A zero in mathematics, first of all, because you have said that your compromise amendment is not going to be approved. And it will be approved thanks to our abstention. Orduan, matematikak ez dituzu osso ondo egin. Bai, Bai, will approve. Yeah, yeah. Well, bai. We can't talk. Nice bath, bai. It's just that I'm dugu. I'd like to bathe in dugu. Eta bigarrenik, badago bigarren razoi bat, eta da tutto is a priority. Today you have put forward a proposal for questioning to declare priority lines L4 and L5, and you also support Supersur and I don't know what, and I don't know how much. Yes, yes. Populative Party protects the Supersur and says L4a is a priori, and L5 is also a priori. I make additions and I don't give them to me. We've been obsessed with the EH Collectoral treatment and even if it's true the mobiles are important, the food is even more important. So, resources are finite, there is nothing to do, and I think it's a very populist to the left and the left a priori primer. Now, what the Basque Country proposes is that there can't be a priority, to make a plan, and to see what can be nice and what is not. Sobre la coheencia, señor Udeza, please, you're in a government. But you can't just tell me that you're a member of the Social Party's East Pacific. You're in a government and, as far as I know, the council council mover in Bilbo is a Social Party member. Where are you? Isn't this the result of a disaster by Ernesto Gasco? Where are we so many years later? Where are those promises the Social Party made that they didn't do? I don't know, I don't know. It's very easy to put homework on others in a government where you share them. It'll be your homework. You've all accepted your budget. You form a single government. And they're in these budgets, so you can't tell me, "I write a few matches, and I don't want others." Because the government unanimously accepts the budget. So I don't know, in that sense, how to teach... And Mr Martínnez, I'd tell him, well, you've asked me the right question, why we're missing. Because we don't want to be populists. Because we don't want to do politics in a serious, serious way, and today we want to make these neighbours happy and tomorrow. I think things can't be done like that. People must explain that resources are finite, public resources, public resources are finite. And the priorities should be put in place. And we, as the Basque Country collected, will have to explain to the residents of the Realc and others and to them and to them, that our priority is to discuss the pensions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u100	... and that we have to make L4 line, that we have to go through alternatives and that we have no opposition to that project, we're talking about multiple million projects, and priorities must be established among all. And we have to get them to the neighborhood. Because, contrary to what you think, people have a lot of common sense, and when things are explained to people, they understand very well where the priorities are and where they are not. But that is why the consensus, the frames of discussion, and the responsible attitudes are required. So what we're asking is that the government should have a very responsible attitude, and that the government should have a careful attitude, with a process of taking part in the terms agreed on in the April. Let him not again sell smoke, and perform what promise he promises, but always consider the first things, and talk to the other institutions, to the Biscay, and to the Bilbos, in a convenient organization of a plan and management, and of the public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. And what we're going to vote is, I'll remind you, the crime plan of the Economics Development and the Underlying Committee, the bill that regulates the Road's General Plan for the third time. So first, then, we vote together with the Polodemos articles correction from three to ten. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u102	So they didn't accept it. The articles of transcripts, which have been corrected together, are transferred to votes, 2, 3.5, and 6. articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 63; counters, 10; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u103	So they're accepted. The conclusions reserved together by the Podemos team to the explanation are referred to by the first and second corrections. It's a vote... Wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Again, they vote, forgive me, excuse the rest of the articles of judgment which have not been corrected, the transient regulation, the last regulation, and the appendix. We can vote. (Pause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u104	So they're accepted. They go to the vote together, the correction reserved by the Podemos team to the explanation. 1 and 2. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u105	So they didn't accept it. He goes to the vote, says the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u106	So it's accepted. The name of the law is applied to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 63; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u107	So the name of the law remains accepted. And in all this the Law which regulates the General Plan of the Rascal Autonomy Roads of the Esquires, varies the Law for the third time. Second point. The other proposition of the law of Parliament in Spain is the 40th of the Constitution of Spain. about the anniversary. This is what we're gonna vote for. E.H. Collectors and E.R.R.R.R.s have signed the corrections. Asked for stitches, I think there's no problem. So we vote first and second points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 17. White, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u108	So, we've been approved for 1st and 2 points. We'll vote three, five, and six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 56; rivals, 17; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u109	So there's three, five, six points. And next time, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u110	So the fourth point is accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group with each other concerning the cases of corruption with the customers." This is where we vote together with the original text of another proposal than that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u111	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 0; white, 0, 0; abstain, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u112	So it's been accepted to the entire Euskal Socialists' correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula team, on the fourth line of the Bilbo subway. Discipline and final resolution. We're gonna vote for the midway corrections signed by the Basque Popular Groups and the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the league 27; the contrary, 28; the whites, 0; abstainments, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u113	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the full-correction of the contractors. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[Berber]] Please, we're in the vote. We're at a vote, please. Then, we're just finishing up, please. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the partisans of 28; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstainments, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u114	So it's accepted to the full correction of the euventors. I interrupt the entire meeting till about four-fifteen. The meeting was interrupted at fourteen-six. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u115	We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, concerning the decree to institutionalize social conversation. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u116	Hello, good evening, everyone. Today we talk about the interview, the relationship of work, the work-world, but we think that before we come to the subject, as an entrance, it is proper to reflect a little about the social context. The proposal of the table of dialogue which we now have, the reality of the work-world, and the social social conditions in ours, if we have not explained it, cannot be placed in a global context. There's been a crisis. We're not in a crisis. Officially, formally, technically, the crisis has been over long ago. From 2015, crude internal product is growing, so technically, we're not at a crisis. However, things are not improved in general and in many people, many people are still having a bad time; many people have not recovered the quality, the quality of life before the crisis. What happened? Well, more than a crisis, we've had a transition, and this transition has brought us to a new reality. What that means is, by simple economic growth, as we see, that we will not return to the past reality, and even through time we will not return to it; there has been a transition, and we stand before a new reality. And at crisis time, owing to the paradigmatic application of shock doctrine, certain measures have been imposed to bring them to this new reality. The repeated mechanism has been attacked, they have been disbalanced in favor of the rich, those who have the least power, which supposes that those who have most of them have more now, and we daily see that new ones explain to us how the number of superassociates is multiplied, while many people remain as bad as in time of crisis. These distribution tools have been attacked by taxing, taxing, degeneracy, and partly sterile. The measures of security have been taken, the tax-forms have been made, and the reforms of labor have generally been made in the Spanish state and in ours. And all this has created this new reality, and in this new reality many people are having a bad time, and in this new reality they are poor of labour and labour. As far as the trade is concerned, it's true that it's getting employment. The business is creating here, employment is forming around us, employment is forming itself in all economicly developed countries. The solution does not arise because the policies here are adequate, but because the inertia or impulse of the universal economic cycle. But employment, which is here produced, is but little and little quality, in general. The government celebrates that we've passed over 10% of the rate of unemployment. They don't tell us that there's less than 40,000 people working at the beginning of the crisis, we're not told that we're champions in the European grade, but that these rates, though better, are unacceptable, at least as to the most highly developed economy in the world, and they don't tell us that it's a much worse situation for the young people, and that our young men's unemployment is really one of the highest in the world. It's a temporary job that's being created in a big way. 30% of the workers already have a temporary job, high rate of rotation, people passing through the profession have 308 contracts per year. It's going up a temporary job, 28% of the workers already have a temporary job and we can see the difference between men and women, it's over 20% of the men's work and it goes up to 40 percent of women. We see that the pro-variety of the genus remains, as far as the pay is concerned, in regard to the precottate, in respect to a temporary work, and in general to the lesser conditions of labour. Work stripers are also climbing, not only because there are more people at work, but the growth of jobs, it's much higher than the growth of jobs, 27% of the first six months of the year. And directly in this legislature, when we asked the President of Consejo de Relacioness's name, how he interpreted this data, he told us, in a personal position, and in that opinion, that he thought it was clear that it was a data connected with the Precinct. And with that test the unions agree, of course, and of course EH Collect, they're multiplying by labor accident on the prevention. As far as the collective negotiation is concerned, the difficulties are still there. It is true that the number of labor agreements signed in the past few months has been increased and that it is slowly improved in this grade, but yet there are still thousands and thousands of thousands of people, a very high percentage among workers, who have not the support of any labor agreement. And we have to say another thing, behind this increase of the number of contractors, we know that some of the members of this government think that the engine is consistent with the history, but we see that more workwords are being signed by the workers are multiplying the number of strike points, and the cause effect is perfectly related from the signature of the increase of the traffic of the workers and the contract of labor agreements. So the patriarchal does not move after hearing nice words, but in front of the workers' Gregories. And the government, clarco, we see that there is a price of unemployment here, that the young man's position, the female, the labor accident, there is a very serious situation, and that behind this situation there is a great deal to do with the destruction of a collective negotiation. And there are, of course, behind this, some temporal reforms made by the government of Madrid, to give the masters power and power, and to stop a collective negotiation. And, consequently, these restrictive measures, whether of right or right, may be applied. The Patronal has these laws, and it is taking advantage of the patriarchal law that those presbyterian conditions and this freezing freeze to me. And we say: What's the government doing in front of this? Well, often, and we used to make jokes, I'm going to take this picture over and over again. What the government does is to show the dependence of the patricians over and over again, to join the patricians, and to turn back to the demands of the majority. This Patronal, which unites itself with the government, is that which has driven this general process of deflating the conditions of work, and does not look at secrets anywhere. These are the elders and you, your government, with them every day reveals slavery and dependence. I will not deny, that a government has the right of communicating with the patrician, nay, I should say, it is necessary that it should be connected with the patrician, and moreover that it should be the best thing to seek. But at the same time, when this patronal exceeds the red stripes, it is sufficient to make and say before this patronal, that by establishing these conditions of labour, it is enough that, by freezing the wages, it is sufficient to keep the collective negotiation still. And that's not what the government does, it's settled over and over with the patronal and while it's going on with the main unions of this people aren't good, it doesn't even exist. This government has broken up relations with the first union of this people, and has a very bad relationship with the second union, and instead of seeking interlocution and respect for them, it is what it is doing, instead of building bridges, to blow down the weak thread of bridges or communication, to sabotage. And he sabotages, for instance, the proposition which makes the table of conversation more efficiently, and, besides, it is impossible to be innocent. I believe that this proposition has been made to break up with these unions, with the principal unions, with the majority of Basque unions. Yeah, I think that's the way it was and it was on purpose or it can't be that bad. And it's deliberately done because there hasn't been any small attempts to break up our relationships. On the table of conversation there are any negotiations with them, no interviews, no invitations in the design of this decree, and there is no opportunity of sharing them. Yes, they have been given the chance of a transfer marked by the law of making commissions. But the decree comes out at the end of July, the unions are sent to the unions and says they have to make commitments during August, which, being efficient, instead of helping contributions, the contribution is avoided or rendered difficult. However, ELA and LAB made contributions, made demands and asked for some things, and all these things have been rejected, some things which, after presenting inclusis acclegations, had been mistaken. The unions complain that, according to the decree, the majority of the unions and the minority will not admit of any function or democracy. The unions criticized the method of deciding which was planned in the draft. I'll read about the Spanish because I have the document with the seniors. "Article 10. Adoption of agreements. As a general rule, the Bureau's agreements shall be adopted unanimously by the parties which make up the bureau. "Exceptionally, they may be adapted to table agreements with the favourable vote of at least one of the organisations belonging to the trade union group." Some of the unions said what was "excepcinalmenate," as an exception, and that this created the lack of legal security, if it did not determine which of these sceptivityal conditions would be. And the government's answer was enough to take off your cap. the article is re-established and the only thing that's done is to remove it as "salebuation"; that is, it's supposed to be normal, with a single union, that the tables are concluded with a single union, and that really supposes that the foundations of any democratic function are destroyed, because they'll participate in that table of two unions which are in minority at the time of 30% of workers, but with a union that stands for 10%, this table can accept an agreement. We imagine that Mr. Urkullu goes to talk to Peter Sánchez about transferments and that Pedro Sánchez says, "quietly, I have already made an agreement with the Basque Institutions, it is not necessary to speak to you; I have made an agreement with the Parliament, and the parliamental law informs me that there will be no transfer." How is that possible? Yes, I come to an agreement with PP in the legislature, 10% of the votes they represent, but that's what I approve, and that's what they represent as a legitimate delegation. That would be logical. But what you want in the union world is to agree to one who stands for 10 percent on behalf of unions and workers in an agreement, which is anti-democratic. And, as is natural, the principal unions have said on these terms, if the relationship to them was already difficult, if historically difficult, but it is not from this plan that the unions do not want to sit on that table, but you reject them because you despise the right of the workers to choose their democratic representation. Therefore we say that this agreement or decree is not democratic, that the voice of the workers does not appreciate and fully appreciate that which represents 40 percent of the workers or 10% of them. It's not really, it's a frame of finding settlements and progress in real problems, but what we think is a tool for putting the seal on the social conversation that government and Confebas agree to. And you've been looking for it and, in justification of the decree, you're telling it clearly and clearly, "we think it's a good idea to vote for unions on one side to make it easier for you." Hombre Then I'll talk about the right to decide. Behind the critical situation that we live in the factory, because it hides itself here, the lack of right to decide in this town, even about our business trade and our working relationships. But I'm going to finish saying that this decree must be withdrawn, that the government has to withdraw this Decree and from zero, with the clock on zero, try to start the conversation with the major unions again. And really, the social conversation cannot turn back to the agents who represent the majority of the workers. Otherwise, we're not in front of a real social conversation, but in front of a social conversation performance, and in front of a culture that has no other purpose than to justify a retrogrady of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos, Mrs. García's word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u118	Thank you, good evening, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Social dialogue is one of the ten indicators for assessing decent work according to the International Labour Organization. On the understanding that women workers should be actively involved in decision-making with regard to working conditions and the definition of public policies. This is because the freedom to organize and collectively represent their interests is considered to be an essential ingredient in guaranteeing the dignity of women workers. For Elkarrekin Podemos, social dialogue must represent a space to enhance social and economic democracy, which implies that only with respect for the processes and contents of governments can sustainable development be strengthened. For our parliamentary group, it is essential that a debate be established in the field of labour relations and that shared public policy decisions can be taken with social actors, provided that these decisions are used to improve the quality of life of women workers and citizens in general. However, after the Basque Government and Confebask signed on 16 April the framework agreement for collaboration for employment and qualifications in Euskadi 2018-2020.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u119	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u120	As my colleague Jon Hernández has already denounced in this House, everything points out that for this government the only dialogue that works is bilateral, between government and employers. A modus operandi The Basque Government cannot design industrial labour and social policies without trade union centres, while, on the other hand, it blames them for the lack of agreements. We have already said that this agreement left in the hands of employers actions in areas such as employment mediation, training for employment or job guidance, which should be carried out by public employment services, i.e. by Lanbide. And it did so by creating a framework that allows the financing of the employer for the development of these actions, with a style of government clearly clientelist. And I speak in the past, because after the motion tabled by our group, this agreement stopped. And it wasn't because the government realized its mistake and turned back. But because both trade union pressure and political pressure have forced him to stop what was clearly an outrage. In this context, on 23 July, the Government sent by mail the draft decree for the institutionalization of social dialogue in the Basque Autonomous Community, giving until 7 September as the deadline for trade union and business organizations to submit their allegations. As always, this Government facilitating participation by sending the draft decree in mid-summer and with very limited deadlines so that it can be evaluated and analysed. And also so that there are substantial contributions from the different trade union centres. While social dialogue should be inclusive and encourage participation between the Government, the employer and representatives of the different Euskadi trade unions, this is not the case. This Basque Government is not exploring the search for solutions to the different problems. She is not listening to the needs and, of course, does not respond to the legitimate demands of the workers. This draft decree raises a continuous model and obvious key questions about the model of social dialogue that modifies the neoliberal course developed so far. The result is a proposal for a decree that does not respect the representativeness of social actors. In addition to including a form of decision-making that is not democratic and is based on three issues. The first, the lack of participation of the representation obtained by the Basque trade union community. Without respecting the results of the trade union elections. The second, the dubious formula of promoting agreements in minority that are obviously useless and therefore lead to the absence of results in this way of understanding social dialogue. And the third, the evidence of a condescending government with an employer with which it signs agreements behind the backs of the unions. In this way, the content of the draft decree shows a lack of political will for the development of a real social dialogue and a formalistic and instrumentalizing vision of it, with the main objective of accompanying and legitimizing the public policies of this neoliberal government. To begin with, the process of participation and drafting the Decree leaves much to be desired. It suffers from a real participation of all the trade union players in our community, as well as from a previous debate, which is so necessary for the creation of a stable and democratic framework for social dialogue. And we are concerned about the view that this Government has been supporting around the totally devalued social dialogue, which in some way leaves very obvious the relationship that they propose to maintain with the trade union centres, reducing the spaces for action that legitimately correspond to them and turning their backs on those demands that are not to their liking. It represents a further step by the Government in trying to detract from the democratic results of trade union elections. And one more step backwards for the normalization of their relations with the different unions. Further prioritizing decision-making in the area of work and employment on a bilateral basis with the employer. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the current model of labor relations resulting from successive labor reforms, both of the PP and the PSOE, which have come to strengthen corporate unilaterality, attack, weaken and devalue collective bargaining. Social dialogue should be an instrument to delineate the entrepreneurial power and make the economy subject to democratic control, in favour of a social majority and whose aim is to ensure that the main problems facing the working class in Euskadi are resolved. However, in the draft decree for the institutionalization of the social dialogue proposed by the Government, in regulating its composition and decision-making, it makes a flight forward. Far from addressing the problems mentioned, it institutionalizes a social dialogue, neoliberal to the extent of the needs of those who propose it, to the detriment of the representation obtained in the development of trade union elections that give democratic representation to trade union centres. For all the above, several trade unions in our autonomous community have expressed in recent weeks their rejection of a project that clearly turns its back on trade unions and develops an operation of the anti-democratic and disproportionate negotiating table in relation to the trade union reality in Euskadi. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we are presenting an amendment to the proposal that Mr Casanova has brought to us today, which responds to the need for a new process of drawing up the proposal for the institutionalisation of social dialogue, with the participation of trade union centres and the previous political debate through negotiations with the most representative social actors and whose aim is to create a stable and democratic framework for social dialogue. And we propose to work on a proposal for a law of institutional participation previously agreed with the most representative social actors, as a formula to avoid the arbitrariness of the government in choosing its interlocutors and guaranteeing the right to freedom of association and respect for democratic legitimacy emanating from trade union elections. We cannot skip the representativeness, we must respect the outcome of the trade union elections that democratically elect women workers in Euskadi. This Government cannot continue to disregard the trade union reality in Euskadi while developing neoliberal policies so that instruments of political action are put at the service of business interests and not the resolution of workers' problems. Because that is what we are talking about, improving people's lives, combating precariousness, improving working conditions and guaranteeing the right of any worker in the Basque Country to defend her labour dignity against exploitation, and of course also guaranteeing trade union freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u122	Good afternoon, everyone. The last time we discussed in this Parliament on the social dialogue table, we were very clear about EH Bildu's position with respect to it. His words were clear: you have to finish it. We have therefore not been surprised by the presentation of this initiative, which calls for the withdrawal of the draft decree for the institutionalization of social dialogue in our autonomous community. I'm more surprised, a little, at the intervention they've had since Elkarrekin Podemos. For this purpose, the proposing group uses the arguments that have been dictated from that watchtower that conditions and controls them, and that even disauthorizes and criticizes them when they come to agreements, for example, to call for a widespread rise in wages. I will remind you again today, as I have done on other occasions, that for socialists public policies of employment and economic revival must be accompanied and encouraged through social dialogue, and it is necessary for the impetus of this social dialogue to consolidate a permanent framework of negotiation between economic and social actors and to strengthen the Basque system of labour relations. Therefore, despite the difficulties and obstacles we have encountered along the way, the Socialists have never abandoned, nor will we abandon the path of consultation and social dialogue, because we believe that this is the best instrument for the concertation of public policies in the field of social work between the Government and the social partners. That is the case, I told you in May, I repeat it today, that in the government agreement signed on 21 November 2016 with the Basque Nationalist Party we established as the axis of action of the government the impetus of this social dialogue. In order to fulfil that purpose, we had to create permanent tripartite bodies – I don't know if you understand what the tripartite, non-bilateral, tripartite nature is – for the participation of social partners, which will be made up of representatives of the Basque Government, trade union organisations and the most representative business organisations that express their willingness to participate institutionally in it. Social dialogue includes all types of negotiation, consultation or exchange of information between persons representing governments, employers and employers, and women workers, on issues of common interest relating to economic and social policy. The International Labour Organization itself regards social dialogue as the best mechanism to promote better living and working conditions, and we seem to share that. Then come the differences and nuances. Because we know that this can promote equal opportunities between men and women and achieve higher quality work and reverse precariousness. And it is this objective of fostering social dialogue and of concertation of public policy that responds to the draft decree that today is the subject of debate in this plenary, because its objective is nothing other than to consolidate social concertation through the institutionalization of the permanent social dialogue, in the one known as the social dialogue table. A rule that will give legal guarantees to the social dialogue and that seeks to shield that table. The purpose of the decree is to definitively establish a formula for social consultation, so that agreements such as employment, which are mentioned repeatedly from this rostrum, would have no place but in that forum, which will be tripartite and, therefore, the matters concerned must be discussed and adopted by consensus between the three parties, there would be no bilaterality. This decree will say goodbye to that path of bilateralism on which some trade union organizations are betting, but which is also a path that follows the employer and all of them will have to act as social agents. It seeks to have a rule that guarantees social dialogue in Euskadi, which, although it does not oblige social actors to participate, does have a vocation for everyone to be there. Thus, the decree itself says that those who do not join now will be able to do so in the next annual exercise, and will even be able to enter during the current exercise at their own request. The door opens, they have to want to cross it. The aim is to channel the involvement of trade union and business organisations in the design processes and, where appropriate, in the negotiation and conciliation of public policies affecting the socio-occupational sphere or affecting labour relations and collective bargaining, as well as other issues identified by the parties in the work plan of the annual plan. In this way, among their functions, they have been able to read, promote and promote the negotiation and conclusion of public policies in the areas I have indicated to them, decide on strategic plans and departmental plans of the Basque Government, as well as on the draft laws and rules of a regulatory nature that they determine in the annual work plan. They may propose modifications, suggestions or contributions which they consider relevant and lay down criteria to be taken into account in the definition of sectoral policies and action plans in the areas concerned, decisions which will be binding on the Basque Executive and on the rest of the parties. No one should forget that the main objective of social dialogue is nothing other than to promote the achievement of consensus, agreement and democratic participation of the main partners present in the world of work, in order to achieve solutions to important economic and social issues that affect, as you have rightly said, the whole of the citizenry. For all this, the socialists will continue to assume with absolute loyalty and conviction the agreements that are reached at this social dialogue table, however much some want to finish it and others believe it does not bear fruit, as we have been doing with the agreements that were adopted in 2016 and 2017. By the way, from those years came the proposal of the decree of institutionalization and already more than a year ago the lines of this decree were presented, therefore, that there has been no participation and that it has been presented with such a short time, because I do not know very well where they come from. And even though there are those who permanently want to subtract, the Socialists will continue to strive to join, to seek agreements, and we will stand firm in defending this concertation as a method of work. And we are going to do so by taking advantage of all the tools that our Basque framework of labour relations currently provides and we want to do so, and I repeat, with the help of all the social partners, we want to continue to count on all, without exception, despite the fact that the absent classics continually disregard the agreement and the conclusion as a method of work, that they disregard the social dialogue table. Because although not all trade union centres have shown the same will so far, it is never too late, I told you in May, I will repeat it now and every time you bring this matter to this Parliament, it is never too late to demonstrate and practice the capacity for dialogue. For this reason, today the Socialist Group, together with the Nationalist Group, is going to ask the Department of Labour to conclude, to complete the processing of this decree on the institutionalization of social dialogue in our autonomous community, because we consider it a great step to have this decree, because without this participation and without the concertation there is no modern and egalitarian country. And it is true that we want things by consensus and that the way the table works is unanimously. But it is also true that we do not accept vetoes and otherwise what is called for is that, at least, there is agreement on all three sides. Surely this is what you do not consider democratic, but agreements by majority are as democratic as agreements by unanimity. You cannot pretend to veto where you are not and, if you want to contribute, you have to participate. When I'm told there's no invitation to participate, I tell them there's always been one. But it is true that I believe in what some spokesmen have said beforehand and have already repeated in May: they do not want to do anything and I am convinced that there are some trade union centres that do not want to do anything. And they say, "The clock to zero." For some, and we were told in May, it is that the clock is not at zero, they have it at least twenty, according to other versions. Therefore, the objective at this time is to enter into those channels of tripartite negotiation, of tripartite conciliation. We complain about bilaterality, but when we introduce a tripartite model, it is not enough either. In the end, if we look at the report of the Basque Labour Relations Council, we could see that what is so much questioned about representativeness also has an effect on the population, and 7 out of 10 collective agreements signed this past year in the Basque Country were signed by trade union centres that do or do participate in the social dialogue table. We would also have to see whether the inability to dialogue at this table does not also have to do with a specific position that the trade union centres are currently making for their own political choice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u124	Thank you, monsieur, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good evenings. Deal and involvement. We're not just talking to ourselves, we're on the side of the social conversation, we believe in the social conversation that really matters in social relationship with society and work, and from that we encourage our commitment, our social conversation. This commitment is already established in the government agreement. Now, by a decree, we want to organize social conversation. Remember that this congressman did that message to you on May 10th. Fourth time, Mr Casanova, we have been discussing this matter in what we are in the legislature. We go to chapter by session, and being in the middle of the mandate, making a basic foresight, we have four more. It doesn't bother us, as you've said before, quite the opposite. Personally, I'm passionate. We are a firm supporter of the agreement, of dialogue and of the word, principles and values that we apply in all areas of work and participation, also in this one that we are dealing with today, social dialogue. For us, meeting, agreement and participation are not empty words, as he said in Basque. We believe in social dialogue, in the importance it attaches to social and labour relations, and therefore our commitment, embodied in the government agreement, is to push it forward. Now, by supporting a fully democratic decree that seeks to institutionalize the social dialogue, by the way, one of the mandates that this Parliament adopted at its meeting on 10 May. I mentioned the democratic word Well, I too am going to confine myself today to a single question in this first speech, and I therefore respectfully raise your august consideration, that of this House, my fervent vows aimed only at the recognition of the essentially democratic character of the position that I stand for today, in the face of some qualifications that have been said here today and some others that have been put in writing. The Basque Nationalist Party ran for election on 25 September 2016 with an electoral programme. In that particular electoral programme, instead of talking about values, proposals, political action plans, etc., we talked about inspiring principles and their materialization in commitments, initiatives and actions. One of these inspiring principles talks about employment policy and how it should aim to promote a framework that balances the interests of workers with those of businesses, consolidating a permanent framework for dialogue and negotiation between social partners and strengthening the Basque system of labour relations. We made a firm commitment to promote social dialogue in order to generate and maintain quality employment. To this end, we bet to develop permanent instruments and spaces for collaboration between the Government and the social partners, in an attempt to achieve their maximum participation and collaboration in the definition and monitoring of economic and employment policies. That is our electoral commitment to the issue we are discussing today, and that commitment is also the contract between the people who trusted us and us; those people also demand that we fulfil and have a duty to fulfil. That is our democratic mandate and also our democratic endorsement. On November 21, 16 we signed with the Basque Socialist Party the programme agreement, pillars for building a Basque country with more and better employment, more social balance, more coexistence and more and better self-government. Social dialogue is not dissolved in that agreement, it is strengthened. This shows that social dialogue is the best instrument for the conclusion of public policies on socio-occupational issues between the Government and the social partners. To this end, it is said that a permanent body will be set up for the development of the institutional participation of the social partners, consisting of representatives of the Basque Government, of the most representative trade unions and business organisations, which, as Mrs Castelo has said, clearly demonstrate their willingness to participate institutionally in it. That body is the table for social dialogue, a table that has three actors. They are all important and necessary to guide labour and social relations. We defend their permanence, because for us this forum is a participatory and democratic element that enables the agreement. We've always been in it and we'll still be in it. We've always been there and we'll stay there. Each operator has his own point of view, but this does not mean that they must be opposed. The interview is necessary and we have room for it. Let us strengthen that which unites us, for it is more than that which divides us. That is our commitment, our mandate and our democratic endorsement. But, indeed, there are other political formations with parliamentary representation in this House, whose approaches we respect and value. And this House is responsible, in my view, for its role as an impetus to the Government. In the exercise of that function, we have dealt, in this legislature, with three non-legislative proposals on this issue. The first non-law proposal, at the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, was discussed on 25 May 2017, and ended by adopting a text signed by the Socialist Party, Euskal Herria Bildu and our parliamentary group, from which we often recall the second and third points of the agreement, the need to undertake in the framework of collective bargaining an increase in wages and the structure agreement of January 2017 as a key starting point for the unlocking of collective bargaining; but of which we cannot forget the first point, which spoke to us about a model of labour relations that guarantees the balance between the social partners and that helps to recover rights for workers and to create stable and quality employment. A second non-law proposal, at the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, was discussed on 21 December 2017, reference has already been made to it. We do not table an amendment. We understood that this initiative was a distortion of a good agreement in force and a devaluation of the negotiating will of this House. We reaffirmed the text of the broad agreement of 25 May. Mr Casanova did not get the democratic support of this Parliament for his new proposal. A third non-law proposal, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, discussed on May 10, 2018. The proposer, Mr Hernández, did not obtain any support beyond his own initiative. Nor did Mr Casanova's amendment get any support. The amendment signed by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which was adopted, calls in its second paragraph for the Department of Labour and Justice to agree and approve the regulations governing the functions, contents and working methodology of the social dialogue table. So clear. May 2017, December 2017, May 2018. Do you know of any question which has been brought before this House three times in a period of one year? Doesn't this seem to you to be an essentially democratic impulse? As a conclusion. Clear commitments made in electoral programmes, programmatic agreements signed between political formations, materialization in concrete initiatives in a government programme, endorsement and impetus derived from repeated parliamentary agreements. This all sounds a lot to me like democratic legitimacy. Mr Casanova, you say, Mr Casanova, in the justification of today's initiative, which we are debating today – and I will quote you – "without forgetting the complexity of the economy and the need to maintain relations with all actors, the government, this government, must act in favour of the majority and not in favour of an economic elite. Mr Casanova, today we can conclude, I can see that this government acts in favour of the majority and with support, and also with democratic support from the majority. And returning to 1,808 and to the august consideration of this House, he sees the essentially democratic character of the position that I stand for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The teams that haven't announced any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari. Madam Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. Mr Casanova, from the People's Group we are going to vote against the non-legislative proposal that you proposed today on the withdrawal of the draft decree of institutionalization of the social dialogue table. And we are going to vote against because we do not share any of the extremes that you have in your proposal. But in addition, personally, I, as the spokesperson for this group, do not believe it. Neither do you, I'm sure. Because, look, by analyzing not only today's speech, but what is the proposal itself that has put us on the table, you pivot it over two situations. A clear situation of economic recovery, I think it is the term that puts exactly in the justification of its GNP and in the rostrum has said that we are emerging from the crisis, and that is a lie. That's absolutely a lie. That could be a few months ago, not today. At this moment we are already dragging ourselves towards, for the moment, deceleration, then we will see what comes and with the dyes of those who direct our macroeconomic policy, for the abyss, surely. I'm not saying no and you share it with me too, I'm sure. Then, the first of the premises is already false. The second, seeing this morning's speeches on the legitimation of those whom you represent in your proposal, because here you have spoken a lot about unions, but in the justification of your proposal you speak of ELA and LAB, which are the representatives of Basque unionism. I wonder, who have the right to choose workers' representatives? Obviously the workers, of course the workers on behalf of others. Of the total number of employed persons we have in Euskadi – we refer to the Basque area, as you like it so much – what percentage of employed persons in the Basque region attend the trade union elections? Less than half. You and I know that. Forty and a few percent, more or less according to the latest statistics of the last trade union elections that took place. You were voting with the Basque Nationalist Party this morning saying that when less than 50% of half the voters go to the polls, it is no longer representative and what comes to those polls is not legitimate. And they argued that if 70% of that 44% who were going to the polls at the time voted yes, that doesn't have to have any legitimacy, neither legal nor democratic. Therefore, the Basque trade unionists whom you, in justification other than in the rostrum, have said that you represented that they were the ELA and LAB unions, do not have a higher percentage than you were discussing this morning, whether legitimate or not. Therefore, you out of shame torera would have to withdraw the demand because you are defending the interests of someone who has no democratic legitimacy, eye, according to your own criterion of argument, which I, of course, do not share. Because I understand that the vote is free. The vote is free, not as those of the left parties like, that the vote is compulsory. No, no, We like the vote to be free. And we like that everyone when they have the opportunity to vote and be called to the polls because that's how they have the legitimacy to call the polls, go and vote, if they want, and if they don't want, don't go and don't vote. And that when you go and vote, vote freely, that's what we stand for, not what you stand for. Therefore, I insist, you should withdraw it. Not because of the final outcome of the vote, which also, but simply because your arguments this afternoon, which are completely contradicted by those which your spokesman has defended this morning in the rostrum, would lack all legitimacy. I do give legitimacy to these two Basque unions, ELA and LAB, in the representation of some of the Basque workers. But I do not share the other part of his motion, which is that famous framework of Basque labour relations. Why Basque and not Victorian? Why Basque and not Jundiz? Why Basque and not Trapagan? Because you look at one thing: that if we are all the same and we are all dedicated to the same and we all have the same rights, it turns out that the results of the trade union elections are diametrically different depending on the economic sector to which we can refer, the sector in the area where that right to vote is exercised and on the sector in which those representatives work, in a large company or a small company. And you'll say, "No matter what, we're Basques, we all vote, we all decide, and there's the union results." I don't share it. And neither do you because when you are on the other side of the social dialogue table, that is, the representatives of the companies who sit at a table, the first thing you do at the hands of those Basque unions, is to criticize your legitimacy because you say that you do not represent the whole, that you do not territorially represent the Basque entrepreneur and are delegitimizing the position that those representatives of the Basque entrepreneurs have at those tables. Therefore, please use the same arguments to look at the navel that to look at the mirror, that to look at the rest of the table, because I think that is part of the democratic game. I insist, I deeply respect the position of these two unions but what I do not like is what they do because I would like the unions to devote themselves to defending workers, their working conditions, the fight against precariousness, the fight against the wage gap, their more concrete working conditions, thousands of rights that workers in this country and in other countries have and are not sufficiently developed. But they don't, because they're dedicated to politics, they're dedicated to playing with other issues. And that really upsets relationships when you have to sit at a table. A table at which, by the way, this matter was discussed was that of the Labour Relations Council. And you take a look at the report and there is the position of the entrepreneurs who say that at foot joints are in accordance with the –logical – decree, that of two unions who say that they are literally in agreement with the content of the decree – which you do not consider and which you do not join in your speech – and that of another union that says that he has already made his allegations and that he has not been heard. There's another, mostly maybe, that's neither there nor expected, is that they don't sit down to work. Maybe that's one of the problems. Similarly, that is precisely the problem for which social dialogue does not work. But I'm focusing a lot on you and I've got Elkarrekin Podemos. Mrs García, you urge the Government to present a proposal for a law. Don't bother me, for God's sake! Don't give Mr. Lehendakari any ideas. The Government introduced bills that had to follow procedures, a series of reports, a justification, a recognition of legality. And he cheats Mr. lehendakari – he cheats, if I may, Mr. lehendakari – a couple of times and presents those same texts in the form of the proposed law of the groups. If you tell her already, and she wants us all to support her, to make proposals for legislation, the first thing the president is going to do is to convene the Rules Committee to make a major reform of the Rules and that the lehendakari can say when it is a bill, when it is a bill – what she told them the other day of the Sesame Basic District of Parliamentary Law. I cannot support either the position or the amendment maintained by the two political groups supporting the Government for two main reasons. The first, the largest Basque businessman, understanding as an entrepreneur who is responsible for the largest Basque company, not for GDP, but, of course, for numbers of workers, is Mr Urkullu. The Basque Government is the largest employer "That is the most correct term" by Euskadi. Their relations – not personal, of course – with workers' representatives are harmful. Then I cannot at any time maintain an agreement that we agree on how well the Government is doing with relations. Well, no. No, no, I am sorry in my heart, because I am tired of hearing not that the trade unions complain, but that they do not change the positions of the Government so that there will begin to be some agreement and let us see a little bit of light at the negotiating table of the Basque civil service. But if I go to the other side of the economy and look at the private enterprise, because I find that youth unemployment goes off, the wage gap grows, the average wages go down. Not only do they come down, they're placing us well below other communities that we used to look over our shoulders. With this something is not being done well in Euskadi and some responsibility will have to be borne by the Government at these social dialogue tables as well. And we will therefore vote that not also to the amendment to the whole that the two groups that support the Government have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u127	- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.: Eskerrik asko, Ruiz de Passing the answer round, the representative of the EH Collect Group is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u128	Well, starting at the end, the representative of the People's Party would have to tell him that obviously trade union representativeness is not measured in a perfect way, because there are people who are excluded from the possibility of voting in trade union elections. But it is quite close to democratic representativeness. Other bodies present in this social dialogue, such as employers, do not even have to access that filter. And really the representativeness of Confebask is like the secrets of Fatima or Lourdes, I don't remember what the secrets were. But it's a well-kept mystery in this country that no one knows. But we will also bring a proposal. We have already registered it, so that the representative of the employer is objectively measured. Man, Mrs Castelo would have to say that when we asked in a previous motion, in a previous proposal, to finish the social dialogue table, it was as conceived. We do not oppose tripartite dialogue. And I do know what tripartite is, between three parts. You don't have to give me explanations from your watch. I don't even want to talk about other watchmen who are supposed to be watching and controlling us. I think you should measure your words a little bit on some issues, because you really would like to have, I would like the Socialist Party to have, the tenth or the hundredth part of autonomy that EH Bildu has to fix its positions. And on this particular subject you are below, first of Confebask and then of the Basque Nationalist Party. See to what extent their government partners are forgotten until they are invited to sign the employment agreements. They forget the things they don't care about: the unions and the Socialist Party. So be a little careful when talking about who controls who, or who has autonomy or does not have autonomy. Because Euskal Herria Bildu has perfect autonomy in this subject and in all others. And I don't think you can say the same. And Mr Aiartza, I have to thank him for highlighting my existence in these matters. Because they're not minor issues. I take it as a medal. Because we're talking about employment, we're talking about precariousness, we're talking about wage gaps, we're talking about accidents at work. And, therefore, not only do I thank you for your recognition, but I advance you that, as MacArthur said, I will return. And I'll bring this up again and again. But not all the credit is mine. I have to admit to you that sometimes, it is that you force us to get into this issue. They forced us when they made the infumable agreement with the employer in which they privatized the employment services. Or they force us when they make an agreement on tripartite dialogue, which they share, I believe, the adjective of infumable. Because you mentioned your program to me, and there they were talking about institutionalizing social dialogue. And I repeat, we are not against social dialogue or tripartite social dialogue. We are against the institutionalisation model that you have proposed. And I, in the part of the program that you have read, because I read it all the same at the time but I have not memorized it, but in that part that you have read to us, makes no mention that this institutionalization of social dialogue passes by excluding the union majority and giving a minority the possibility of approving agreements on behalf of someone for whose representativeness it has no title or right. And, in addition, they also talk about the Basque framework of labour relations, in his programme, Mr Lehendakari in general policy speeches. Who are you going to build the Basque framework for labour relations with? With the unions that do not believe in the Basque framework of labour relations, which are the only ones with whom they are currently in contact after having dynamized the bridges with others? Because for me – I was reproached earlier that I only defend some unions – all unions have perfect legitimacy and I defend the legitimacy of all. And it's more. I take this opportunity to say that I believe that the unions that have agreed to participate in this model of social dialogue do so from their autonomy, I respect that autonomy and of course I believe that they do so in good faith, believing that they defend the interests of the workers. I'm not gonna question that. But understand that there is a representation and that everyone has the weight he has. And I say it to you again: neither in your programme, nor I believe that from your at least theoretical bet on the Basque framework of labour relations, it is understood that you have to build on this model of social dialogue. Why? And that's the last part of the intervention. Yes, I wanted to say that we were asked before: why a Basque framework of labour relations? For, among other things, so that you, from Madrid, the People's Party, which represents what it represents here in this country, also in legitimacy, but in a frank minority, cannot impose on us a reform of collective bargaining that leads us to the situation that you yourself complained about, I do not know if with much coherence, Because he complains about the precariousness, of the fall in wages, after his party has imposed a labor reform that precisely breaks the collective bargaining, puts into the hands of the employer what is the collective bargaining and it was done expressly to give this situation of precariousness and decrease in wages, man, seems to me to be a little out of the way. For this we want a Basque framework of labour relations, so that we can decide here on the basis of our economic structure, which is different from our productive structure, our productive model, the needs of our productive fabric and also on the basis of the democratic will, not only of the workers expressed in the trade union elections, but also of this House. So that we can democratically legislate the model of labour relations that we want and that it is a model that, unlike what you have proposed to us, benefits the majority. And no, indeed I say it and I repeat it, not the current model which, with the support of the Basque Government, is defending the interests of an elite. Because I am mentioned again and again, the agreement that we reached at the request of a proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, an agreement that I claim in its entirety, an agreement that called for the widespread rise in wages. And I ask again and again, who opposes the widespread rise in wages? Who? The unions? Or the employer? Who has that responsibility? Who's to be pressured? Who do you have to tell clear things to? Who should be sought as an ally for rights to be recovered and wages to be recovered? If you had the will to move in that direction, you would look for someone who could agree on that path. But you have repeatedly sought complicity with Confebask, who is responsible for this situation in the area of pay and in the rest of the working conditions. That means he assumes responsibility for his actions. They are aligned with the economic elite and the business elite of the country, not for the benefit of what may be legitimate as creating employment or boosting the efficiency of companies, but rather not sharing the wealth created and taking advantage of the existing regulations imposed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u129	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u130	... from Madrid, to act to the detriment of the interests of the majority of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u132	Thank you, ma'am. In our first intervention it has already become clear that before a draft decree that wants to jump and stand above the union representativeness, the result of legitimate and democratic trade union elections, we have no choice but to reject it and invite the Government to rethink its elaboration, paying attention and listening to the numerous protests of trade union organizations. The institutionalization of social dialogue is necessary, but not in this way. We agree to ensure and give security to social dialogue. But you have to do it right. The document does not speak of consensus, it clearly says that decisions can be made supported by the employer, Government and a single union, whatever it may be. We can't agree with this, no matter what the union is. Because that allows decisions to be made by leaving out three of the four unions, more when no Basque union has an absolute majority. None of them have more than 50% of union representation. And, Mrs. Castelo, it is not true that the decree says that the agreement is with three parties. On the trade union side he accepts that it is done with a single trade union. That's not the representation of that part. When one of the parties is composed of the representation of women workers elected in democratic trade union elections, we have to respect that representation, we like it more or we like it less. And, with regard to the right to veto, for our part, none. We are aware that trade unions have their strategies but regardless of whether some of us like them more or others like them less, we cannot from our parliamentary group deny that representativeness. In addition, the PNV speaks a lot about democratic principle, but on this occasion it is not worth it. It is not our responsibility to act by the different trade unions before the tables of dialogue, but governments cannot support formulas that skip the representation emanating from the trade union selections. The government is at these tables because it has a majority given by Parliament, the employer because they are elected by the employers, and the unions, each represents the confidence of those who voted for them. The agreements unanimously in the tripartite formula are desirable, but the agreements with the mutilated trade union party are not. You present a proposal that respects trade union representation, and if someone uses their representation as a veto, let it be the workers, the ones who decide who represents them best, but don't skip that representation, it's a dangerous shortcut that we can't share. With regard to the amendments tabled by the parties supporting the Government, it is clear that, after that, we cannot support them, because they simply defend and refute their own neoliberal policies and make very clear the framework of labour relations that you defend, a framework that denies trade union reality in Euskadi, and that tries to go beyond democratic representativeness. And with regard to EH Bildu's initial proposal, we have already made it very clear that while there are points on which we agree, half of his proposal is focused on the creation of a Basque area of labour relations. From Elkarrekin We can believe that there is already a Basque framework as such and although, of course, it needs to be improved, we understand that it does exist, and that we cannot often mix the political and that we must prioritise the social above the territorial. In view of this political practice which seeks to neutralise the demand for trade union and social rights, to in some way lie the foundations for a new status which is held by only two of the five parties of the House does not seem to us to be a solution. For our parliamentary group, it is a question of ensuring decent working conditions for all women workers in the Basque Country. This requires social dialogue, respecting the legitimate results democratically elected in trade union elections. I don't think it's that complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u134	Well, let's see. We all agree that the best way or the best process to determine or adopt public policies is through social consultation, so far we have no problem. We all agree, or the vast majority, that the tripartite model is what we would bet on, well, no one opposes that. Now, that is, if that tripartite model does not give itself the right of veto, we do not agree. Because I will remind you that Article 4 calls for all the most representative trade union centres in the Basque area. Of course, taking into account the attitude of some of them in recent years, it is expressed as follows: "The most representative trade union and business organizations within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country who agree to join and participate actively in the composition of the bureau. Each of them shall designate the persons who represent him." Where is the exclusion here? If someone wants to be excluded, it's called self-exclusion. What, then, is the way to adopt the agreements at this table? Article 10, point one, which is usually the first, sets out the general parameter: "As a general rule, the Bureau's agreements shall be adopted unanimously by the parties which make up it". But logically also, in order to establish the possibility of reaching agreements, it is said: "However, when a proposal of agreement is agreed with the consent of the representatives of the government, of the corporate organization that is part of the bureau, or of the members – because it also opens up the possibility of being represented to new employers, and that has been forgotten to all of you – and of some or all of the trade union organizations, that proposal may be documented as a decision of the bureau – not as an agreement, as a decision of the bureau – for the purpose of developing policies or subsequent actions related to the subject matter in a concerted manner". I mean, I don't know where you see the danger. Others see this, others who have, in my view, taken a certain wrong time in the direction of what it means to defend the rights of workers in order to achieve this improvement in the quality of employment, this improvement in occupational health security, this improvement in the situation of the wage gap, by the way, all with working groups in which they do not want to participate. I mean, it is difficult to agree when the representative of the workers is self-excluded from all working groups and from all tripartite representation bodies. Do not live by the agreement that was signed bilaterally. That agreement, its error in processing was recognized, it has been paralysed and will be submitted for consideration by the tripartite table so that it can be carried out. We told him. Someone did not believe us, told us that I was losing confidence and belief and I, thinking that today I was intervening, said: I'm going to talk to him about St. Thomas. I haven't been to the rostrum, I can't use it, but you know perfectly well why I was telling you. We bet on concertation, we bet on tripartite concertation, but in a balanced and democratic way. We do not believe that unanimity is the only way to adopt agreements. We're not thinking about that. You respect your autonomy to those who are already at the table, but do you deny who you do not want, you deny it to those who do not want to go to the table? I haven't heard you say that. And when I tell you that you work at the dictate of some, you question me my autonomy. I don't have to prove autonomy to you because I come out to this rostrum and, normally, when we make deals, I don't get And what you have done here today, what you have brought to us is a non-law proposal that follows exactly what point six of the allegation made by one of the trade union centres says. And you know it perfectly well, as I do, because we both have the text. And it may seem to me the opinion of those unions and it may seem to me that they try to take into account the arguments they make, but what I would like to say, I said it to them then and I say it to you now, is that the nationalist trade unions, that ELA and LAB come to the social dialogue table and from there also defend the positions of defence of the workers they represent. Because you know, and so do I, that we still have over 100,000 workers left in the Basque Country with their contract fallen and without any protection, that some are benefiting from state-level negotiation due to lack of negotiation in the Basque Country. And here, the power stations that have the greatest responsibility for the lack of agreement, you know perfectly well as I do and the report of the Labour Relations Council says, are not precisely the two trade unions that participate in the social dialogue table. Concertation, therefore, also tripartite, among all, but with the will of all to contribute and participate in the bodies that are created for this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u136	Thank you again, ma'am. Indeed, Mr Casanova, for me insistence is a value. You're very insistent and for me it's a value. I will be delighted to continue discussing this issue. And well, you see, four or so results have not been bad for our parliamentary groups, with no problem whatsoever. It is also something that I highly value rigor. And you're insistent but rather unruly. And I don't mean in this sense that end that he always does in his interventions, aligned with who, depending on how many, condescending with whom I don't know what else. I really want to talk about more objective issues and, in my opinion, perhaps more important than those final collectibles. And that would be three. One would be methodology, participation, participation methodology. And I am drawn to the attention he said that participation in this particular issue has not been guaranteed. Well, they've objectively filed allegations. What I see is that they've filed allegations. But participation is much more than that. And Mrs. Castelo said it now, participation is much more than that. The participation methodology is more than that and there you have to be. I would be delighted that we were all tremendously participatory, yes, there are, but there are, some of us and I do not mean this House, and we all know who, who do not participate. Methodology and participation, or a second question the objective that this seeks. And you were saying something that seems serious to me, you were saying that the objective pursued by this Government, you have said it and you put it in writing also in your justification, the objective pursued by this Government is to enter into confrontation with the trade unions. Do you really believe that? Do you think this government has that goal? Well, let's see, it shows me that, I don't know if I call it a pamphlet. And thinking differently, because we think differently, and presenting some allegations with the aim of modifying, enriching a text, seems to me a thing, but starting by saying what is said by the union on the cover of that publication – I'm going to call it – seems tremendously inadequate and it doesn't help anything, but quite the contrary. It's not the government's goal. It is not the aim of the Government to confront trade unions and in this area. The Government's objective is to promote consensus through social dialogue. Yeah, that's it. And in that publication that you teach me appears that as an objective, also from that point of view, wrong. It's not wrong for me. For me to pursue consensus is a goal, it is a good goal. And, thirdly, the results. You say that the social dialogue table has not achieved any results, zero results, no fruit says. Well, that's objectively uncertain. The fact that, as you were told right now, we are working on sectoral working groups today in areas such as the situation of firms in crisis, disaster, equality and the quality of employment, training and qualifications for employment, is already a fruit in itself. But also, by way of example, the Bureau meeting of 18 July 17 dealt with issues with institutionalization, the framework programme with employment, real issues. Isn't that a fruit? No, no. Well, neither is the interprofessional agreement of January 17, which has no precedent, it is not, you are there with the no, with the no. That's not it, no. He's got a history. That agreement comes from a background to the Bureau meeting of 22 July 2016. Fruity. Methodology, objective and fruits. Be rigorous and can be insistent too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u137	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casanova, I was really confident that you would withdraw your initiative, but look not so much at the final outcome of the vote that will take place in a few moments, but at the continuation of that focus that we have had this morning on distributing butter with the Government, which seems to be lubricating both the relations and the agreements that seem to be under way. Indeed, it is true, Mr Casanova. We could in some way question the legitimacy of workers' representatives because not all workers have the right to vote, nor can they freely vote, for the conditions, for the regulations, for the absence of representatives, for working in very small work centres, because the staffing of many or the vast majority of our companies is scarce.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u139	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u140	We cannot vote freely as we could not vote in those other elections which you called into question, which I referred to in my first speech, the December 1978 elections, those and all subsequent elections. And you're sorry for that? Well, welcome to democratic dialogue. I am pleased to see that spirit of democratic response to adverse events and respect for minorities, as it has had towards UGT and the Workers' Commissions, which is also good, what a shame. Things have to be recognized. But the same thing I flatter you, I'm going to make you ugly. It seems to me very distasteful, Mr Casanova, to tell you sincerely, that you are putting on the table the picture of the dialogue agreements between government and employers when half of the government is not in that picture, is not in the agreements. Look, I thought about it yesterday. I thought about it yesterday when I saw the photo of the transfer meeting, those of the Socialist Government and the Government of the Basque Country. And between the government of the Basque Country I did not see any socialist councillor, and what I was advising you here is the one who is supposed to have to receive the skills so cackled and so asked, the most important, but it was not in that photograph. And I missed her and I remembered this situation for today's speech and I didn't want to take her out in my first speech because I didn't think it was right. But you have done it and I am affronting you for that behavior, Mr Casanova, exactly as I am affronting you for saying that there is no confrontation between the relations between the union or one of the nationalist majority unions or, in general, all the unions with the employer and the government because it is not true. Of course there's confrontation. But do you know why there is confrontation fundamentally? Because there is no dialogue, and because there are some who have been trying to stimulate dialogue for a long time, because there are some who do not try to seek agreements, because there are some who presume to have the legitimacy of the representation of workers and what they do is to defend their group interests, their own, their political ideology, their interests as a group, as a union, not the workers. And that leads us to that level of confrontation that Mr. Aiartza denied. Of course there is, of course there is. Since I set foot in this house, I have met with the cakes between the government and the unions, between the employers and the unions. And before I went into this house, in other houses I was in, and before I just read the newspapers and watch the news. I believe that social dialogue tables are very important. But the problem is not a project, or a preliminary draft, or a draft decree of institutionalization of that social dialogue. The problem is the lack of dialogue and the search for confrontation, and not of course the desire to defend the interests of workers and citizens in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 18; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u142	So, not allowed original text. Then follow the correction of the whole Podemos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 10; the contrary, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u143	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and Sociaists of Basque Sociialists in full correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u144	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parliamentary group together, concerning the network of municipal eucharies. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr Martín, representing the Podemos team, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u145	Good afternoon, it's time for us to talk. Then I won't be long. Our proposal today, which we bring here, is easy, short, direct.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u146	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u147	We talk about the municipal eucalyptics. We speak of public eucharys, and demand to form a network for the new townships of the townships, together with the townships of the town, and with the eunuchs, who have sufficient petitions, to see that there is an independence in the territory of the Arada. At this moment, the network of municipal shops has 38 centers. Besides, you can see a remarkable absence: In Bilbon and Donostian there are no municipal corporations, and they have very little presence in Aban. Although the important work which has been developed during these decades in the sphere of the eucalypation of the adults deserves the publication of all, it is well known that economic costs and the various systems of the public aid are not at all compatible with the possibility of being able to serve by those who are interested in learning to follow. I mean, it's a discussion about pattern. We've talked about it at other times, and we've introduced corrections around the EGA in the budgets. We have also observed, as I have said, that there is an indistinguishable inequality of lands. This is self-evident. As for the capitals, this is Bilbon and Donostian, where there is no council center, and besides, as far as the land of the Arabs is concerned, there is only one center of the municipal dignity. It's very difficult to learn to make a close public center in the Euskara. So our proposal, which we bring to-day, is to strengthen the network of municipal euccanys. It must necessarily be strengthened, and the free exercise of learning must be secured, and the present demand must be answered in order to create and increase the public network. Today we're in the Euscara. We've taken 11 days to take the habits of eucaia and we'll bet on the eucaia. But we have said more than once, and we repeat that there is need of more means to encourage them to resist. And among these resources, the townships ought to be the axis of public resources. It is clear that the offer today is not sufficient, and that we need more municipal euvocacy. Is it possible? How long have we known this? It's been a long time since we know it's not enough to be free. Why has nothing been done to transmit this network in the past few years? Why is there no more resources to open this network? A public network to learn to sing? This year, as I have said, we have introduced in the budget an amendment, if we wish to establish the rights of language to the EGA, I repeat again, that the public resources are necessary, and that is, in the end, a thing about public will, about political will, as you have seen, my team, together with Podemos, we have not signed the middle term which other groups have signed today. I'd like to explain a little why we didn't sign. Our vote will be abstention in that medium. It will be Absce because we share some things, and sometimes we are not so agreed, but the sense of another proposition, by our own law, is intended to take a different course. That is to say, we believe some discussions are confused, and there are many elements in this medium, which are found to be confused with what we plan. Our proposal is very simple. It would be well to know and inquire into the results and the system of evaluation, as the medium says. But it's not what our initiative is looking for. Besides, why should these investigations and expense be fitted to increase the network of municipal corporations? What kind of ties do they have? We clearly see in this, once more, that perhaps the application of the report of not doing things continues to be the most effective way, and we here require the measures of the means and the senses. Besides, if we continue on the following points, well, at the second point, we talk about public and private Basques. I, as I said before, defend the public education of Podemos in all quarters, and of course in the process of competition. And we want to focus on our proposal. It supposes that there must be more public eucalyptics than there are, and because the offer today is not enough. As I have said, this is the meaning of our proposal. I don't want to forget the work of private Basques. Of course we mark the work of private Basques, but our wager is a public network for education and for adult alphabetization. And that's what we put here today on the table. We do not therefore like the way in which the public and the private Basques are placed at the second point in which they appear in the middle, and how the concepts are confounded, because what we seek takes another course. So I'd ask you to vote all the teams, because they're in one sense, because they're in a straight and clear sense, and to reflect on our proposition, I'll ask you three questions: If you want to open the new municipal eucalyptic shops, see if you want to end up with the balance in Aran and see if you agree with the preste of public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u148	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u149	Mr. Martínnez I'll go and answer the questions one by one. But first let me describe the history of this country, and the situation which we now describe in the sphere of the euphora of the adult. We all know what it is, but let it be seen that the planning you make is not appropriate and does not agree in order to answer the situation we now live in. The scope of the euphoration of adults, the province of euphora, is another example of our history. It's a demonstration and a clear example of our history. And now, our chaos in this area is the outcome of our history. For if at this moment we have something to do with euphoria, then it's chaos. And what we have to do is a good diagnosis and begin to order, regulate, and repair this chaos. In the culture of the Basque Country, it is a culture of the lightnings and the vaults that are so rooted, and another example of which is the sphere of the adults and the Basques, with all good things and all bad things, because it has good things and bad things. Look at the situation we're in. We have two networks: public network and private network. But we have two networks in the public web: municipal euccanys and official language schools. In addition, we have the IRL program of eiscaling professors, and in education we have EGA, which is managed from education, because the FILOR program is managed from education, and the EGA education is managed by euscans from Cultura. And we also have the education of grown-ups, and this is where we teach the eucalyptus. And if all this were small, if all this were small, then, according to the townships, we have different helps leading to the mainland. Although they move from pedagogical and neurotic views into similar parameters, because HABE controls them and overstifies them, the difference is obvious in the working conditions of the workers and even in the professional conditions. We have, therefore, a terrible chaos within every network, according to what he has managed, under conditions, etc., etc., etc., etc. It's such a mess we've got. And if they ask for anything from sector to sector, it's going to start fixing this mess. And what we don't have to do is make a problem that isn't a sector, because as far as I know in this sector, maybe I'm wrong and I'm totally confused, but in this sector there's no confession between the nets. So what we don't have to make a confession is that where there's no need to create a confession and that when they're asking for it from the sector we have to settle it, because all this is the product and effect of our history, as I have said, to the race of lightnings and crabs so deeply rooted in our culture. And that doesn't help, because it doesn't help to continue to ensure the right to know the rest of it. It has not helped in the efficiency of the eroscalization, it has not helped. And we have all suffered the consequences of all this, some directly and others later. And I want to think that as the history of our country remains behind, and as we look to the future, we must go on to repair our problems and situations in this country as we advance. And we have to go gradually to sort and combine the camps, to gain efficiency, to penetrate into public money's optimism, and so on. But above all, to support the support of the people, and to ensure the right of knowing the support of our fellow-citizens. And for this we should go to set a single window, combine criteria, co-operation, and homologize the conditions of the professors' work conditions and professional conditions. And in all this we should look for harmony. Because we have an unanswerable question. And we must look for answers, among all of us, and above all with local operators. Then we can't make new eucalyptics, as it is. He has no brains. We have to create another network, in view of which is the situation? Let's go make a good diagnosis first. And you told us, well, that the corrections and contributions we've set up, and that the medium that's made, has nothing to do with it. It's connected, it's the one asking for the sector, and the new Basques may be missing. And if they don't, we'll have to put them on. But first let us make a map, let us join the criteria, let us regulate it, let us go forward and make a solution to that disorder we have. And then, if we need other resources on that map, we need to set them up. And honestly, we're very grateful that you've brought this discussion to the whole meeting today. And I say frankly, because this discussion is directly connected with the legal proposition we discussed last week, because the development of this legal proposition must be derived from this point. And he demands and we did it on that purpose, didn't we? When we establish a frame to unite all this, and, of course, it is done with public money, it is made with public responsibility, and I have no doubt of the universalization of resistance, and in the exercise of a right, when it is to be public, is it not? And even more, publicity, public money, because responsibility is public, and there are rights in the end, but there are responsibilities. But what we don't do is start from the roof, we can't start the house from the roof. That's why I feel that there are some precedents, and all that, all those questions that are there, we have to answer them together with the personnel of the sector, and we can't get a confession where there hasn't been a revelation. If I am not mistaken, the representatives of the private euphorics which we had here last week, and we know their opinion, and they are ready to advance on this road, and we all need it in order that we may win efficiency. Then it seems to us that we cannot begin by making such an arrangement: let us go to build new eucalyptics, without knowing what we have, without any order of this disorder, without any consideration, and moreover without answering this proclamation from the sector, because it seems to me that there must be a pure and orderly seduction. For, as I have said, we have several questions, we must answer all these questions, but not us, we must answer them all, among the parties, but with sectors, with those who are in the sector. I don't know, we get several questions. Is the acquisition of adults to be organized in a single administrative order? For example. Are you going to place yourself in the hall and the councils should stop being masters of the eucalyptics? Or should we divide it between different institutions? Can a plan be that the city Basques disappear and have official language schools that will make a public offer to euccanate? I don't know. Or should we go to one network? How are we supposed to go? There are a thousand questions, but we have to do this with the operating agencies in the compound, which is why we need to be examined in hand. Which group is to be picked up by the grown-ups? From culture? Education? It's divorced now. Or which role should each of them play? We'll have to talk about that in order to win efficiency. I don't know, we're thinking of asking a question, and we think it's necessary to answer them all, and that the answers of all of us are necessary, if we really want them to advance in order to guarantee the right of knowledge. And it seems to us that today's discussion is really important and that it's connected to the last week, but we have to be responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. de Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone, and let's get started. Our team agrees with the media, and we signed it. And why did we do that, sign? Well, I hope you don't mind telling me what I'm going to say, but, look, it starts to be a councilman in politics, and if you've been a councilman, then you understand our first class problem, our problem in the first class. And I think, here, the PNV people, the PSE, our people, and some of us, we've all been councilmen, and then we can't lose that point of view. And, klaro, I don't think there were so many of the councilmen in your group, but he's missed and let me talk a little. In the '80s, at first, we had a pretty serious problem with the Basques. Then the councils began to make ordinances before the law, and to place the Basques. And it wasn't really a municipal competition, it was an inexpensive competition, but it didn't matter. We put the Basques on and let me read them in a necessary report. The report is "informe sobre la finenciación de las compencias de los distintos niveles instincionalles de Euscadi." Eta badakizu zer esaten den? Euskararen bow of nahasiena dagoena, nahasiena dagoena. Esaten du: "The basic report for the drafting of the new Law on Preceptive Contributions according to the Municipal Law, complains that the promotion of Basque and the financing of Basques must be clarified, because it is addressed from all institutional levels". According to Mrs. Ubera, we have a terrible knot here, and you say, or let's put on more Basque places. Eske And I'll tell you something else. Do you know how HAAB finances the city towns? I'll tell you: you know, there are a couple of times in a council, well, maybe you don't know, because you have to be a councilman to find out, and education rates are placed in June and July. And they don't know how much support the HABA will provide. They don't know. And if they make HABE high rates, it's good, you'll want it to pay, and they don't give them a penny. And then if the councils rate lower, HABE pays one percentage and the other councils have to put it in. Please, I'd like you to see how confused this thing is and we need to clean it up as soon as possible. So that's why we want to take a look at where we are, to see how it was done, because I don't know whether you know it or not, but the students did it in a few minutes, because most of the adults have been alpha-bombed. That's why we've been spending time and we've got fewer students. Not now, he's raised a little, because we've got to go to EPE and EPE, and the presence of the Basques has been a bit higher. But when EPE's over, it's probably less and less. And then we need to know that. We have to take a test to find out. And we have to study to know what necessity is, and also to know who it is that is to pay for it. And without that, we can't really answer your questions. It was before, whether we should build more eucalyptic stores. Well, I have no idea. I need that test first and we'll see. Then you say, "Aban... "Well, let's take a look at it, and then we'll decide. And, I'm sorry, I didn't aim the third one, but I know it was three, I was hoping Mrs. Ubera answers and the third to take the lead. Well, that's why I'm telling you that we don't agree with your plan and the contrary, to make a thorough examination of what we've signed. But not just "well, para pago," para vaya allí, para no hacer nada." No, we really want that test. Because I'm telling you, the councils are putting up a lot of money now, and the competition is improvisation, and we have to clean it up and clear it up. That's why we signed a medium, and, of course, how we signed it, we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u153	Thank you, ma'am. I'll make it very brief. I don't doubt that the intention has been good, but I think you've put the wagon far ahead of oxen, haven't you? It's always interesting to think about it and propose things, but I think we've discussed it in the last week, that we have a lot to answer today, haven't we? We have made a new network, a combination of institutions, which has always been, and we have always had an alliance between institutions and motives in the Euscaia; but I think it is essential to know the things we need to do before we make a new network, and know the situation we have. And I think the deal we've made today is that the middle line is going to that, and that's essential to make decisions later on. We cannot make decisions, first make decisions, and then see what is required or what is not. And further, as I have said before, we have taken notice of a proposition of law in the week past, wherein we have a great deal to discuss, to see what is left of that law, or what sort of alterations we shall have; but I think we have the foundation, that we have it in that law. And even in this reflection of which we are to do, there will be results, according to which we shall also have the opportunity to have a map or a X-ray, I think, to examine the results, to take things which are not necessary, or to have things which are right. But I think it is also a very deep study, and in the course of the past week there is an idea of the Basques, of a private Basques, or at least of my choice to be with them, and their doubts are there, and their circumstances are also present. And we'll have to talk about it, too. We've also got a chance to take a thorough study there. It would, therefore, be much more positive if we were to do this examination, we believe that the examination we have proposed, that the middle term, is not a small one, but is proposed to make a very profound examination, and we shall see, if we have the opportunity to have a new network, whether it is necessary or not, what sort of privations we have, what sort of demands we have. We must also consider this also, and make our decisions accordingly. So we agree with the agreement we've made, because it's much more reasonable because we think so, and that's what we're going to stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u154	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Euneraries, Lord Faraway, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Well, the first impression we had when we received this initiative was, in a way, that we wanted to play a second part of the legal proposition of the week, and we thought we had a number of things to discuss or explain. From the beginning, if we look at the first paragraph, one who does not know the subject would be able to understand that there are countries which are not paid attention to the demands of the adults, especially the Araba and the capitals. And that's not true. It must be decided that if any of them had any doubts today and yesterday, all the demands of the arrivals, and the attention, that this attention, is public protection, and, of course, from the Cultural of the Euskion, especially from HABren. And beyond the headline that supplies all this service. And I agree with several things here said, for example, that we shouldn't play a problem where there's no problem. By the way, our confession from here to all, the eucalogies produced by the municipal profession and the popular clergy, and also for the sake of many reasons and reasons which are offered to resist them in their adult state. A few minutes later it is said, "that on the day of the day, it is well known, to be able to tag them in a Basque establishment, that the different systems of economic costs and of public assistance are not able to be managed by those who intend to learn the cradle, in order to be able to do it in a free manner." As for economic costs, it is true, a certain degree of fertility does not guarantee complete activity, so we admit that freeness does not completely work out in public. But to-day I shall not enter into the subject of poverty; By no means, I think it's only a matter of consideration to our honesty last week. As far as the system of public help is concerned, it's true that, according to councils and mankomunits, the aids are different but that's beyond the reach of fun. According to the municipal law, the jurisdiction is theirs, and therefore must be related to the townships and to the eudels which it represents. I think, again, that the figure is distorted in your discourse. It is true that, like a municipal market-house in Aban, there is nothing but the Laudican, but that there are, as it were, in every mob of the Arabs, the euscalaries of the public protection which I mentioned before, serve. And here, in our opinion, we must make the bet of the proprieties. We could take advantage of the net we've got. The reality of our country is different from that, and Mrs. Ubera has spoken of historical reasons, which are often listened to and seen in the eyes of dogmatical expressions, too much, in my humble opinion, too slight, that we should know and use the reality of our people. In the world of education, even in eroscala, we have the most popular movements in this case of euphoria. As to property, it is private, who does not possess those qualities or ends which are attached to private men. And the fact that these are not in account is thought to be a very partial examination of reality. Hence the criterion of addition. In more words and expressions, we are in need of private public society. And the net of our people gives us special opportunities for that. And that's safe. And that protection is the reflection of an engagement. Commitation, which is defined in numbers. In 2018, and in account of this book of eupcats following the year's income, and in the case of the Euskidents, the town firm pays their wages, starting from the last three months of 2018, and for the first three months in 2019, has a rise of 2,25%. With %1 from 5 to 2.25%. And from 3% to 6%. That's another good reason we think it's proposed to accept the budgets. And what I'm saying is the easiest thing to say is that it's a self-centered speech. It would require too much simplicity for a leader of political strength. But if I had known the ropes, I wouldn't have been surprised to hear something like that. And in my case, on the other hand, there was no self-consciousness at all. I accept the disorders, the uneasinesses, and so forth they are mentioned here. And the worries and contributions that visited us last week. But what you can't do is start a test because it's a distorted situation. And somehow the house began from the roof. To take the measures to take, we'll need a test first. And I wouldn't let it happen that you're going to build the town attorneys you're proposing. Or, as Mrs. Ubera herself has hinted, it may, in a way, alter an outline about official language schools, etc. I think the stage is somehow open. But first we must get out of some objective data. Otherwise, I think we should be mistaken, even if any consequence, result, or solution be taken. I think we've made a special effort on the deal today. Think of what is related to this, it has been mentioned, the discussion of the week he went away. Think of the situation we were in. But today, because of the effort our team and the government make, we're all inside the deal, and, Mr. Martinez, I'm telling you frankly, I don't understand how you've managed to get out of this agreement. And what is accepted from the course of the year to-day, in order to study the results of the official euphorics and language schools of different natures, and to have HAE's resources and economy and to manage, in order that she may be able to socialize adequate offerings, and make an examination according to certain clabes. According to what this examination says, if there were privations, you could ask me to stand up to these privations. And we think that's where there's a wide stage. But first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, first of all, data and first we have to take a full picture. Then I shall repeat, that your attitude towards it has become incomprehensible to us. But, as always, I prefer to highlight the positive side and to emphasize the attitude of these groups that have come to the agreement. And again declare our eternal integrity, that ye also, in a near future, may sit in the midst of an agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u156	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. We'll go round the answers together, Podemos, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u157	Before I could answer, I'd ask, because the level of the discussion requires that, Mrs. de Bengochea and Mrs. That's, like, magistral classes in college. We haven't been up in politics in 30 years, but, well, we're getting ready, we can read. Diagnostic, there's a lot of diagnosis. There's a lot of maps, lots of them made. And, Mr. Faraway, you've been running these institutions for nearly 40 years. Why haven't these maps been made? However, I shall repeat what I have said before. The path of our enterprise is not the road that has been taken in the middle of the road today. Does that mean that the discussion is not necessary or that there are not many questions to be answered? Yes, there are a lot of questions to answer. There must be discussions. We've discussed the one-punciation, not the activity, not only last week, but also a year ago, and we've always said that it's necessary until we get to C1. But I don't believe that our initiative, that is to say, the opening of new town markets, meets where they are needed with the road here to your initiative. I don't think he meets. We can't wait for some studios that don't have a temporary commitment, we can't wait for some maps. And still you don't guarantee that they're ripe from the public system. For now and I believe that the example of the Faraway is true and true, and it is difficult for us to reach the municipal eucalyptic shops, or to reach the municipal offices in public systems, and, besides, the majority, the adult eucalyptus, most of the adults who learn to keep it up learn it. I mean, it's statistical. And we know sometimes what costs are in this kind of Euscalia. So I don't think our initiative collides with the discussion you're making here. But what we put before us is a very different way. We ask for a concrete thing. The rescalation of ripe arrivals, in places where there is a request to open certain municipal eucalyptic shops. Wherever there is demand, because it is necessary. And you take another way, a studio, a map, an evaluation, that it's necessary? Probably. But it's not the sense of our initiative. This was to be discussed in another action. In another initiative. Therefore, as I have said, we will abstain and hope to answer the three questions which I have made before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u158	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Deputy EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u159	Mr Martínnez, it's not my style to give lessons and if you understand that, I really apologize. Because I think nobody's above anybody here, that we're all on the level, and that we all have a lot to learn, even the Basques. And perhaps we should all be glad to take a little walk from the Basque shops to improve our rest, and, on the other hand, to know better the state of the eucalypices. And just because of what you said, because your proposal doesn't collide with ours, that's what we made the proposals we made. Because we need a photo, a map, for us. And just this is what they're proclaiming in years, years, and I said, We have a huge backpack in every area, even here. But we must leave the past behind, learn from the past, and settle the circumstances we have, and begin to answer our anabases and questions. Further, when there is a demand in that field, there is an agreement in that sense, though there be many questions to answer, which we must answer among all. But we can't start doing new things, when we haven't fixed what we have, that doesn't make any sense. And just because of what you said, because it doesn't meet, because everything has its progress, its sequence, its temporalization, from a logic, and it seems to me that we are not all of us, in a position to throw public money into the bar. And besides, we must improve in efficiency, especially in order to ensure the right to know the support proper to all the citizens. We haven't been effective until now. Well, let's have that mess... We have chaos, and they themselves use that word. I think, therefore, that the discussion to-day is very exaggerated, and that it is also proper to be carried along with the discussions of the previous week's legal proposition; it seems to me that we have opened a door, and that now we must go deep into that door, that we ought to discuss, and that we must look for agreements as far as possible. The Basques will thank us, the local workers will thank us, but most of all the people will thank us for it. For the people, according to the place where they live, have different conditions; and this does not help, does not assure them of the entrance to the cradle, and here is the final end. The last and the first must be in the centre. Nor are nets, or schools, or teachers: People. And, of course, schools and nets and teachers must also be considered. But for what? These are means, then, to order all this in the proper manner. And, well, I have nothing else to say. It seems to me that he is a subject to study, that he does not meet your proposal, as you have said.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is what I have to say before: I'm really sorry and I apologize if I said something wrong. But one thing, when somebody teaches me anything, it does me the best thing. I like it here. teach me. Maybe you don't need nothing to wear out, and you're lucky, and the new arrival has a lot of good things. Why? Because the ghosts you have here will not have, and much more fresh, with a much newer look, and I also learn much from you. But if he's really taken it wrong, I apologize. Nothing at all. There are few more to say on this subject. At least I have answered at least two of your three questions. Then I think that if we say that everything is, we vote "yes" to our middle-class.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u163	Thank you, ma'am. I'll make it very brief. Look, I don't apologize because I didn't teach. But I have told you one thing, it has been much easier for me than what Mrs. Ubera and Mrs. Bengochea have said. These discourses of fat Trazos do not attract attention to this Chamber, and at least Mrs. Ubera and Mrs. Bengoeche have said very interesting things in their reflection. Then one more thing. You said in your intervention, "Bueno, we believe that our proposition is very good, at least we ask you to vote our proposal and renounce yours." Have you tried a moment or two with the other teams to come to an agreement, to send or to write something? Just stick to yours. Mrs. Ubera made a proposal, and the rest of us made a contribution, and finally came to an agreement. What have you done? Hold still, vote for your husband and fuck the other guy. It's not like that, Mr Martínnez. That's how you understand politics, at least I don't understand politics that way. We know that you have come and found the light, and that this people is not the same with your birthplace. You're the ones who've arrived and things have improved completely. You're the best. In the first place, I said, there is a man who knows much more in every peor than in the other. All of you teams are the smartest peo-boys. And to tell others not to give lessons, and ye come here always to teach them. No, it's not like that. We're not against a new network, but if we have to make a new network, we'll have to have data, we'll have to reflect on what lack, what demands, the results of the Basques. I don't know, it's gonna have to take a test or something. Or just do it? Then you say that management requires responsable, such a pattern, Mr Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u164	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be short. I think, what I said before, that the house must begin at the bases and begin first to take the second step. It looks like we haven't done anything in 40 years. Look, I'm not going to get into these discussions, but we probably made an important contribution to the situation that is not so bad today with all its problems. We don't want to be able to win the time by asking for a report and doing a test. On the other hand, we are seeking to answer reality properly, and we have agreed that you will be disappointed, but we have agreed that it has come to the rest to answer all the questions that are at present to examine and to deliberate in their senses. Perhaps after you've done the reports and done their results, maybe it'll be yours to-day...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u166	Can we just shut up for a second, please?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u167	... the time to answer the questions you give us. When I discuss the treatment that is given to euscal and euccanys and public public public or private municipal offices, I always think of an aphorism. I don't know if you've read the classics on the left. Yeah? You've read them. Karl Marx has an aphorism, yes. I don't know if the Goth Program has read it. Yeah? And you'll know the aphorism: from every one his capacity, and from every one his need. I think beyond the dispute of the networks, seeing that the present governments and the former have treated them thus, the characteristics of our country, its own features, even in this, are in eucalyptic, and so on. And what we think is the value we have there, and the strength we have there, we should not cease to take advantage of it by certain criteria which are often too dogmatical. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u168	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion has ended, we will go to vote and vote first with each other the original text of our proposition as a Podemos group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of the 9; the contrary, 60; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u169	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euskal Socialeists, EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendments signed by Euz. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 60; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u170	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the Parlamentarian Party of the Euscal Group, in order to improve the tools of fighting against the force of the genus. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll try to keep it short. We have discussed this subject several times in this legislature, but with this particular proposition, Poptular party has proposed a proposal concerning the means of resisting the force of the genus, and we may say that the ends which this proposition contains are as follows: To send the law project as soon as possible, to send the proper bill of laws to the legislature, and, on the other hand, to send the consideration of the State against Genro Violence, and to direct the measures of Euscal Autonomy in Erdi; to strengthen the programs, and review the protocols. And, well, we've got a deal, with parties that protect the government, I'm sorry we can't do it on the back of my mouth, we haven't made a deal with one mouth, and the other groups, especially Podemos and EHkes, will introduce their reasons, but, well, it's a pity they don't have this agreement on that side. We call once again for the referral of the draft law on the eradication of violence against women, the provision for the referral of this bill is included in the legislative timetable. It is true that the forecast that was contemplated in the legislative calendar was to refer this bill to the House before the end of this year, urte hau bukatu bathe lehenago bidaltzea lege-proiektu hau Legebiltzarrera, bathe gero egia da akordio zabal bat lortu genuela Ganbera honetan, éta esaten genuena edo actua ematen genion Gobernuari lege-proiektua bidaltzeko uztaila bathe lehenago. And we have to say and we need to remember that the government has never done this deal again. This is why we thought it convenient to ask or command again, especially to send this bill of laws to the Government. On the other hand, another of the points to which we refer in our initiative is the analysis of the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence which, under our competence framework, were applied in Euskadi, this issue was also addressed, we addressed it in another specific debate on this issue and there was also a specific mandate for the Government to forward the corresponding analysis with the measures that could be applied within the scope of our autonomous community. No one escapes that it was, of course, a milestone in the adoption of the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, but that also in this Covenant against Gender Violence adopted by virtually all groups, with the abstention of Podemos, well, it was also a way to review the measures envisaged in this law. And, on the other hand, we consider it important to strengthen all programmes related to prevention, awareness-raising, protection and care for victims of gender-based violence, as well as to review and improve protocols. I am not going to extend much longer, because, as I said, we have reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government, in relation to the fact that the draft law, which is pending, was already covered by the legislative timetable; also in concrete agreements in this House we agreed or told the Government that it had to send it before the end of the 2018 session, and those agreements have not been complied with to date. And, on the other hand, there is also agreement on the plan of State measures against gender-based violence, the State Pact against Gender-based Violence, which can be implemented here. And, on the other hand, another of the requests of the People's Party to strengthen the programmes and to review and improve the protocols. It is true, well, that I would have liked there to have been an agreement unanimously. It wasn't possible. Now the groups that seem to be abstaining will explain their reasons. EH Bildu had no amendments, he understood that he agreed with the original initiative. And, on the other hand, we have also incorporated and made reference in the fourth paragraph to the implementation of the agreements adopted, to all agreements repeatedly; the full past we have also discussed an initiative of the Elkarrekin Podemos group in this House, and, in that regard, we have also included a specific paragraph for the implementation of the agreements adopted in relation to the current Gender Violence Act, debated and adopted in this legislature, which was what Elkarrekin Podemos proposed in his amendment, specified one by one. Nor can I understand the reasons in this case for Elkarrekin Podemos, when we have considered the request for his amendment and does not sign the agreement. But, in the end, I believe that it is positive, that we insist again, it is positive to remind the Basque Government that the bill on violence against women, its referral, is a priority, as the People's Party considers it, and so we have incorporated it back into this initiative and we hope that, to the extent possible, as long as this mandate is fulfilled and this bill reaches the House as soon as possible for its processing. Since we are in the middle of the legislature and we are talking about a bill with all the reports that accompany a bill and that are preceptive and, therefore, if this issue is extended greatly, we will unfortunately not see the bill. We will not finally see a law passed by this House on the eradication of violence against women. Which, I think, would be very bad news for Basque citizens, and that is why I think it is appropriate to re-open the Government and remind the Government that this issue is a priority issue and that is also what the Lehendakari himself said in his investiture session and reminds us in all the plenary of general policy. Let us therefore hope that this time will be the final one and we will not have to bring an initiative back to this House, recalling the importance of forwarding the bill we are talking about. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u172	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. This is the turn of the teams who have advanced the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u173	Yes, good afternoon to all. Today we are debating the PP's initiative, which in our view lacks concrete measures to facilitate, modify or change current public policies in order to end inequality and, as a direct result, the macho violence. At the initiative of the PP parliamentary group, the Government is urged to refer the legislative proposal for the eradication of machist violence to the House. Mrs Garrido, this is already requested in different agreements reached in this House. It's not wrong to insist, but, honestly, it doesn't bring anything new. It also urges the submission of a plan by implementing the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence. At the initiative of our parliamentary group, an agreement was reached unanimously in this House on the state pact and its implementation in Euskadi. Much more complete than the point proposed today. So you don't bring anything new either. It also requests in its initiative that further work be undertaken to reform victim support programmes. I would remind you that we have at least a dozen agreements with concrete measures to review and improve victim support programmes, so the third point does not propose anything either. And they have added a fourth in which they call for compliance with the various agreements adopted in relation to macho violence in this legislature. It is not wrong to insist, as I said before, but it does not bring anything new. So we wonder what is the purpose of this initiative that brings nothing new? They do not propose anything that has not been discussed. That it has not been worked in greater depth and detail or that it has not already been agreed in this Parliament. So, in the light of the initiative, the proposal you have made seems more like one of those that we are accustomed to from the government, than an initiative of the opposition. Indeed, the amendment submitted by the parties that make up the Government was almost a calc of its original initiative. They seem to have felt absolutely comfortable in this initiative. We understand that the situation of women and sexist violence require responsibility and initiatives to try, Mrs Garrido, to go to the bottom of the issue, not generalities in the face of the gallery that do not, from our point of view, amount to such a serious issue as the one we are dealing with. We have the impression that you need to whiten your image in front of women. Because they have been and continue to be an obstacle in everything that has to do with feminist policies and women's rights. That is why our parliamentary group is going to abstain. From Elkarrekin We have presented 45 specific initiatives of Machist violence, to which we have to add all the specific initiatives for equality and also all the parliamentary processes in which we have incorporated through concrete proposals the need and the requirement that the gender perspective be intrinsic to any public policy. In our amendment we considered it opportune to collect the agreements reached unanimously through the initiatives of Elkarrekin Podemos, so let us recall the many commitments that the Government has pending at the request of this Parliament, all of them with concrete measures, to improve attention to women in situations of machist violence. All the agreements I will mention are included in the amendment we are submitting to that initiative, Mrs Garrido. In May 2017, an initiative was agreed on the modification of the single-paying economic benefit to women victims of gender-based violence, because this benefit is not reaching all women, inter alia, because the bureaucracy and the requirements they have to meet are a genuine obstacle race. Also in May 2017, more than a year ago, at the initiative of my parliamentary group, an agreement was reached on sporting events free of symbolic violence against women, nor on this point have we had any news from the Government regarding its implementation. In October 2017, a unanimous agreement was reached in this House on the basis of a motion on the administration of justice and machist violence. One of the points urged the Government to develop an improvement plan to ensure access to justice for women, boys, girls and adolescents. No plans have yet been presented in this Parliament today, and furthermore, this year, in the gender impact report accompanying the draft 2019 budgets, we have not found a single heading for specific equality policies of the Vice-Council of Justice. In December 2017, an agreement was reached on machista violence and the Department of Security, and there was a call to review the department's information systems as we know it, and the adviser acknowledged it, that there is a dispersion of data and sub-registration, which means that the number of complaints published annually are less than those actually filed for machista violence. In May of this same year, in 2018, this Parliament has already reached an agreement on the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence, as I have already mentioned to you, Mrs Garrido. At the first point, the Basque Government was urged to carry out an implementation plan within the framework of autonomous, out-of-town and municipal competences, as well as to ensure the participation of women's and feminist organizations in the process of analysing and drafting the draft law on sexist violence. Since May, we have been waiting to hear from the Government about the progress made in the implementation of this agreement. Also in May 2018, an agreement was reached to create and implement a mobile application against machista violence throughout the Euskadi, with the aim of reducing the time for intervention in emergency situations. We understand that you will all agree that the agreements reached unanimously in the Basque Parliament will be carried forward, so we believe that all of you will vote in favour of our amendment. However, in the light of the initiatives, of the agreements that we have promoted in this Parliament, Mrs Garrido, you will understand that your initiative seems to us absolutely inadequate, rather than a toast to the sun. In short, our group will not vote against it, but we will not vote for an agreement which, in our view, does not propose anything new to advance towards equality and the eradication of Machist violence. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u174	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u175	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. Well, we're actually going back to another full session to talk about gender-based violence. Indeed, Mrs Arana said that Elkarrekin Podemos has presented 45 initiatives on this subject and I believe that the initiatives presented by Elkarrekin Podemos are so important as that presented today by the People's Group, it is not precisely the Socialist Party that usually defends the People's Party on these issues, but I think we should not despise any. On many occasions we present parliamentary initiatives to the parties, in this case the opposition, and on many occasions the agreements that are signed to some or others seem insufficient to us, but I think that we should often put the possibility of agreement above all, because in the Socialist Group we believe that the issue of equality and the subject of male violence should not be raised as a matter of majority, but as a global issue on which we should all try to reach agreements, as on some occasions we have managed to achieve unanimity. It is true that many initiatives have been put forward, it is true that the Elkarrekin Podemos Group raised in its compromise amendment the need to repeat or express the agreements reached. But I believe that from now on, once the initiatives have been discussed so many times, I believe that the general philosophy is shared by all the parliamentary groups and we should reach unanimity. And I believe that what we should expect is the law. The law is the final point at which this matter must be concluded. I believe that there is a commitment on the part of the Basque Government to bring it. It was part of the legislative calendar and almost all initiatives have raised the Government's commitment to bring it. And I think it's now that we should all focus on working and being able to achieve the best possible law. To try to achieve it unanimously and, as I say, to move away from those majority games, because I believe that it is an issue that affects society as a whole and that, moreover, it is a demand on the part of society as a whole that this issue be agreed unanimously. And, therefore, I think we should flee from repeating that we are against and put into value what unites us beyond what separates us. Because, as I say, all initiatives are legitimate. We often find agreements inadequate to some or others. But, as I say, for the Socialist Group, the agreed compromise amendment reflects a little what all the speakers put forward. The bill is a necessity to bring it to Parliament. The state pact, which was already discussed at the time, is also being collected. Implement the various agreements. It is true that some groups raised them in one way and the groups that signed the amendment put it in another. And to strengthen the programmes, I believe that, too, there is no parliamentary group that can put forward its opposite position. I therefore believe that we sometimes close to reaching agreements by whom it presents an initiative or who does not present it. But, as I say, I believe that from now on the law should be the objective and I hope that we will be able to bring it to this House with an opinion that is endorsed by the unanimity of all. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u176	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. As Mrs Garrido has advanced, we've come to a middle-way. It's true we've had a lot of illegal suggestions and motives about the machison of violence. The state of pensioners, pay-rolls, social policy, and the resources to be attributed to them, labor-preferration, mobile devices, the deontological code, the planet of equality, state-tuity, social network violence, and so on. They're all part of the machista of violence, they're a machista of violence. They're violence against women. Some, established in a subtle manner, and others crude and visible. Physical violence or death itself. And, well, we've been arguing lately, we've had a lot of deals. They're all united in Equimen, proposition, resource, and all. They're all necessary. The want of equality is one way or the other which we find in our everyday life. Our team's commitment to women is strong against violence. We haven't a good challenge. Of course, the last facts published this week about the machita of violence are inherited. In 2017, in Biscay 765 women have been victims of machista violence. 34% of these, over 31 years of age. Since February 2018, Gipulia's has turned on 27 times the protocol of public response against sex. Araban, more than 900 women have come up to the attention Forum service for 2017 years. So the facts are serious. As I said, the challenge is weak. I've often said things don't change from day to day. And on this subject it is absolutely necessary to change the values of women upon which violence is founded and maintained. The sexist attacks and attitudes are not isolated. Absolutely the opposite. The violence against women is a part of a system which can enable them from infancy and all their lives. And he opposes women's security, freedom, and ability. Between us, unfortunately, in our society there are still ways and attitudes that allow and accept such propensities. And more than ever this serious problem is all about it. The media renders the space and importance corresponding to it more and more. He's giving vice, and society itself is getting a message, and the last week, look how many interviews, demonstrations, and events we've had. This wasn't happening 10 years ago. Equality is not the foundation of all violence towards women, and consequently the violent struggle against this violence must necessarily be connected with a profound change of value. And that's what we've been working on, not from this law, since we've been working on eucain years to get equality between men and women. Many times, I have said, we have been a pioneer and an example. As the majority of associations and programs which work in opposition to the Machista of violence, are important in the exercise of prevention, of sensitisation, and of possession, and of very important attention to the victims. And we need tools for all this. Tools and resources, continuing the work, getting new contributions and inserting new contributions, strengthening programs, and, of course, fulfilling the engagements that have been made so far. This is the reflection of the middle-class text today, without any self-implence and yet knowing that we have a long way to make it. It's true, Mrs. Arana. We feel ourselves at ease because the text of our proposed correction and team was exactly the same, but we believe this medium of ours is positive and a different progress. The agreement taken adds itself to the former. Ms. Arana, you yourself have said that your team has introduced more than 45 initiatives, I believe, in the field of equality and violence. There are six of them which you have marked without making or without answering, only six of more than 45. And I'm sure they're working on them. So it's not a bad contract station. Forty-five initiatives and no more than six answers, and probably they're already working on that answer. Therefore, I would like to make a clear distinction between the former points of the agreement and the later bill of law to be brought back in July, and so forth. I think it was in July or June that the same creation had been at the Committee of Equality, and he explained to us on this committee, saying that until now we had to do all the work we had to do in order to complete the content of this bill, and so on. I think that all the groups have agreed at the moment that we consider them positive, and that it is necessary that they should be well done, that they should be calm, and therefore I think that this delay is intelligible. Therefore we ask him again, because he is thus engaged, and because it must be so, that we may have time in this law to work on it, but we ask him to do it as soon as possible, not only because things must be well done, but also legal reports, and so on. And therefore I desire to make a calling for each other only to thank him, for his honesty, and also once more. In order to obtain such firm agreements among all the political and social agents of society, the combination of the divisions, the work of the institutions, and, well, association with the arts of society. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. A group without any correction, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u179	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. Well, as Mrs Garrido has advanced, our group has decided to abstain from it, and I'd like to begin by explaining the cause of this abscesssion. And above all, it is concerned with the first point of the agreement obtained. And it's also about the idea Mrs. Arrivalga was talking about right now, rather than bringing us lightly, because it's a matter of bringing us well. And because there's often no such thing as the rush and speed of the administration outside, there's movement in the organizational industry. And I think a law like this requires a great continental work to be handled here, but in order to achieve it, socialization and external work will be indispensable with feminist movements, women together, women who have managed to survive... And it takes time so that we can do it, and we want to offer it or shake hands with it, and we want to tie it to it. And that is why we tend to abstain from it, because we see that this point takes control, leads light, and, well, as we said in its time, we want to connect it to the other. Well, obviously, we're not gonna fight it. Yes, I think he has brought in the several subjects we have hitherto discussed, and it is not bad, I mean, you see what the accent he wants to give, what he wants to focus more, or what he means to emphasise, and to keep arguing with the machista of violence, and even if he has to be every pleno, it's important to talk about it. And that's why self-absorbed and not opposed. But on the other hand, we will not ask for the reason we say so. And while we're talking of violence, I'd like to remark that, as he was saying here, we must come to the subject from various aspects and places, and that it's very important for education to arrive at sexual education, to enter into community. And this is the last few weeks, and especially in the last few days, I'd like to submit to a conflict or violent assault in the middle of the conferences of communications. The curious thing is, of course, how curious it is to have a program that we are talking about women's violence, and how curious it is that we are talking about the possibility of them, I mean Skola, and what curious thing it is that María Solan, the chief physician, should be in charge of the government. I think it may be remarked that our entire support from this point to all the professionals and professionals who work on it, is necessary from the first ages, from the very smallest ages, to be conscious of violence, and to be conscious of the potential and complete powers of consciousness. And, in conclusion, I would like to remark that, even in this cheap but dangerous excuse of the genus-ideology, it is that Nafarro, because it is spread in the world, the woman who wants to be able to identify them as a genus-ideology, as if there were something dangerous, and therefore our gratitude to all those men who are the rights of women who are on the point of view. Of the women who are prisoners of Salvador, from the beginning of the Imelda, all who were mobilized on Sundays in the Basque Country, we want to make our way with them, and therefore we want to advance firmly, as far as possible, in order to identify the scopes of improvement which the law can have, and to work with the largest consensus, in order to achieve what outside it is here. So noble to continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing the answers, representing Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u181	Okay. I will see whether in this second intervention I can convince Mrs Arana and Mrs Etxebarrieta, that I believe that if I try, I will succeed. Well, in any case, thank Mrs Arrizabalaga and Mrs Rojo for their willingness to agree, and above all for Mrs Rojo's particular reference to the importance of the Government referring a bill in relation to the fight against violence against women. As for Mrs Arana, I think the problem is that in this case you were not the proposer. I say this with all my affection and respect, but I also have to say that you, of course, do not have the monopoly of initiatives in this House. Of course, it tells me that no concrete measures are envisaged in the transmission of the draft bill of the plan with the measures that can be implemented in the Basque Country of the Pact against Gender Violence, that all the agreements reached in this House regarding violence against women are referred to the House. Of course, I do not think that concrete measures are envisaged because they only propose something when you propose them and bring something also when you present them. Of course, you are talking about responsibility, but it is specifically the responsibility of the Government, and in this case of the Basque Government, and that of the groups that are in opposition is to be the acquittal of the Government to forward the commitments, and to fulfil, rather, the commitments made with this House. On the one hand is the commitment made in the legislative timetable, which ends this fourth quarter, and, on the other hand, the agreements reached in this House which shortened this deadline to the first session. And then, on the other hand, what I do not understand, Mrs Arana, is that you in your amendment urge the Basque Government to comply with each of the agreements that have been reached in this House on this issue, and when we ask for it in the compromise amendment, you tell us that it does not seem enough. I just don't get it. I think it's either better to explain it to me... but I'm a little thick right now at this hour of the afternoon, with a little busy day, but I can't figure it out. And look, I'm going to finish, because your ladies and gentlemen are tired, it's been a long day, but I do have to remind you that precisely the responsibility you have to exercise when citizens put you in the place to act and take concrete action, that's what the People's Party has done since 2011. All administrative and jurisdictional instruments have been strengthened, new offences have been established in the Criminal Code, the Victims of Crime Statute has been adopted, children as victims have been made visible for the first time in access to care services, the competence of courts of violence against women has been expanded, new coordination mechanisms have been established, a call for aid has been established for companies to finance equality plans, which is also a matter of great concern to you. The supplement to maternity pensions has been increased, a comprehensive plan to combat trafficking in women and girls has been adopted, an equal opportunities plan has been adopted with the greatest budget allocation in history, with 127 million euros, with 124 measures, the National Strategy for the Eradication of Violence. This is to exercise the responsibility of a government, which is what we ask the Basque Government in this case. And, on the other hand, I say to you that you also look with affection, with affection and with the attention that at least deserves the initiative presented by the People's Group in the Congress of Deputies to amend the Integral Law on Gender Violence, to include concrete measures of the State Covenant. That in which you abstained, precisely because that law, which is from 2004, has become somewhat obsolete in relation to some issues, such as the ratification of the 2014 Istanbul Convention, which you are well aware of and which you have also referred to in many of the initiatives that you have brought in this House, which extend sexist violence to other types of violence that are outside the couple, such as sexual violence, or the inclusion in this initiative that we also ask as victims of sexist violence to mothers whose children have been murdered in order to harm mothers, I think this is an important issue. Or that the status of victim can be established without the need to lodge the relevant complaint, which serves the recognition that there is a conviction for this offence, a protection order, a court decision providing for some precautionary measure for the victim, a report from the Office of the Prosecutor pointing to the existence of indications related to gender-based violence. I believe that these are initiatives that show that responsibility is exercised when it is in the government and when it is in the opposition, as is the case, that the People's Party is doing, and that is what we also do now, from the opposition in this House, to ask the Basque Government to fulfil its commitments and to comply scrupulously with the agreements reached in this House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u182	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Miss Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u183	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Red, no. The law may indeed be a principle, but of course a law without resources is simply a role. So, it is good that we have a new law, it is good that it is well worked with the support of women's and feminist associations, but it is also good that this law is supported by good budgets for the full implementation of that law. Mrs. Garrido, look, don't be mistaken. We do not abstain or we do not like his initiative because the present PP, simply seems to us that, in a way, it is a kind of face-wash on the part of his party, because it also talks to me about responsibility. Look, Mrs. Garrido, you filed an appeal of unconstitutionality to Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March on the Effective Equality of Women and Men. You voted against the Euskadi Equality Act. You opposed the creation of gender-based violence courts and voted against the Gender Violence Act. And the president of your party, Mrs. Garrido, has declared that if she governs she wants to return to the Abortion Act of 85. Do you think this is your responsibility? Because, of course, we don't think so because abortion is a right. Conclusion: the main objective of your initiative, Mrs Garrido, to talk about the subject, which seems to be being dealt with, that you take initiative but without moving anything, without proposing real changes or improvements, and all this because feminism is moving forward and you do not know where to get involved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u185	Yes, thank you, President. From the seat, if you'll excuse me. Also very easy, Mrs. Arana. First, a bill is not just a role. I think it is much more because it marks the political will of a government at the moment. If there is no bill that brings a government, there is not even a will. I therefore believe that it is clear from this Government that it will bring the project forward. And then, it's true the need for economic resources. That is seen in the budgetary negotiations. It is very good to make political speeches that if we do not have funding, they are useless. Let's all stick to the story and I'll tell you that I can agree with you on that. That is why, when the People's Party brought the State Pact to the Congress of Deputies, some left it empty of political content and we arrived the socialists to put the money that was needed to make those policies effective. Therefore, it was as easy as to say, Mrs Arana, that the Socialists do not need to explain anything to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u186	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. And EH Collect, yes. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u187	Yes, in a hurry. Mrs Garrido, I'm sorry, but you didn't convince us. We'll continue to take abstium. But again we thank him for bringing the subject here. I don't think it's ever the least I can do to talk about this. We can have different opinions. And besides, we didn't make any corrections even in our own time, because we saw what was the foundation for you. And, respecting this, we again insist that, for us, to act a part-of-the-process, time, to act with feminist movement, to make this law, not only as a political connection, but as a social consensus, I believe that it is necessary for us to do so also in order to advance a law. And, as we were saying, it's important to have enough budgets in order to make them, and that, while we're talking about the budget, we might be able to get rid of others, because we've seen a terrible example today that doesn't even respect the words of the victims of violence. The victim is revirtimized in a press conference, and there is no help for any of these, no support for education, and no help for development of their deliberative projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Euscal Sociists and the Eucabertians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 66; the supporters are 41; the contrary is 0; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-11-29.u189	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I shall next read an institutional expression, the institutional expression of the palsestian in Jerusalem. "The US Committee of Europe demands the General Secretary of the United Nations and the members of his Security Council to act as soon as possible, to demand responsibilities for the authorities of Israel, and to finish the systematic discrimination known to by the Palestinians of Jerusalem. "In ratifying the international human rights treaties, Israel committed itself to providing universal guarantees and rights against discrimination. However, Israeli discriminatory policies and laws, aimed specifically at the Palestinian population of Jerusalem, aim at the forced transfer of Palestinian population from Jerusalem. "The recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital by the Trump administration has encouraged the Israeli government to further intensify the violation of the rights of the Palestinian people. "To the European Union and the Chief Secretary of the United Nations and President of the United Nations and the United States, we ask that they may guarantee that international rights are fulfilled and that they may take measures to end the laws and desecrations of Israel which belong to the residents of Jerusalem. "The countries which are allied to the European Union and to the United States must prevent Israel from occupying the Eastern Jerusalem with it, and which are already implied in it. "By this institution of expression, the Basque Act agrees with the "Other Jerusalem" campaign, and signs the manifest of this campaign." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four.
