ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. Please sit down on each one of you. We will begin with an institutional expression, the institutional expression of violence against women. "The law of the Eus is extremely and highly censured by the violent murder of Maguette Mbeugou, who has been the victim of another event of the violence of women. To make it more serious, the killer has taken his life from his two daughters. The parliament presents its support and sympathies to the relatives of the victims and to the nearest relatives. "The Basque Parliament condemns this brutal murder, which took place in a week when, also outside of the Basque Country, there have been cases of violence against women. We condemn all manifestations of violence against women or sexual discrimination. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men, resulting from women's power relations and submission. "The law of Europe demands the peoples to commit personal and collective engagements to the equality of women and men. In the same way, the responsibility for breaking violence as an organization requires institutions to develop our integrated plans, provided with means to disappear once and for all, against women, so that there will be no other act of violence against women, much less the murder of Maguette Mbeugou." We'll keep a silence for a minute to denounce violence. [[Silent]] I'm willing to inform you that Borja Sémper Passcal has delegated the vote to the congressman. The previous theme, to solve once and for all the drawings of the conferences of the 28th of June. In accordance with the 92.1 article of the Renaissance, the parliamentary group of Podemos together, as far as the other proposal is concerned concerning the head director of the EIB, the Euubertians and the Basque Socilists vote for the full correction of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u1	So the correction of the integer is cancelled. First point in theme list: "Auterists, EH Collect, together Podemos, Euskalia Socilists, and the populars of Euscal, as the parlamentary teams of Parliamentary companies, with the intention of promoting a part of the inclusive trade. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Soon, since the deal is there. All of you have been able to read it and what I want to do first of all is to greet the promoters of this initiative, those who have stimulated the agreement in the House, the representatives of the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta, who are accompanying us today and with whom we have had the opportunity to work together on the text of this agreement and other issues that have to do with important references to Basque social and economic life. Association to which we feel bound and, of course, with the intention of continuing to participate and seek these agreements, linked, in many cases, to the social economy and to formulas, of course, characteristic of our way of enriching ourselves and generating employment, of generating positive economies. And in this regard, to value this agreement, since all the parliamentary groups have presented this initiative, suggested and inspired by people linked to the development of the economy, to the development of employment, to the development of the social economy in the Basque Country and, of course, people who continue to deepen, as in this question, in humanistic formulas, also in the business economic sphere. This is the example of this initiative, which will have a journey that we will all see. It is about shaping business experiences that can be feasible and that revolve around the person, the people, the workers within the companies. In the social economy already work fields of these characteristics, with humanistic values –cooperatives, labour societies – in these keys. But we can and must continue, and that is why we believe that this initiative is timely; we must continue to deepen the scope of the commercial enterprise, also the traditional models of economic generation and production. We have already seen that, in the area of the initiative we are presenting today, the main features would be a culture of cooperation, co-responsibility and concern for people. That is the main element, but it must be given the entrepreneurial content, the participation of workers in management, or in results, or in ownership, or in all those issues at the same time, which, in one way or another, will be issues that need to be articulated, but that is the fundamental thing. The formulas for the participation of workers in enterprises are not new, I say again, linked to cooperatives or linked to working societies, linked to the social economy. Important reflections have also been made by associations such as ASLE, which includes labour societies on this issue. But here we are going to give it a dimension, within the scope of the traditional enterprise, within the scope of the enterprise also commercial or within formulas that are being created in relation to these issues. The priority of the sustainability of the collective project over the interests of interest groups is also a fundamental element that makes these economic formulas very interesting. Also taking into account the needs of the community in which it is based, this social responsibility is essential at times like this, where we realize the new dimensions that have to be given within productivity, within economic growth, within economic development, taking into account the needs of the community in which it is based. These are the fundamental elements of this initiative and, of course, I say again that we must thank the promoters, the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta, for their constancy, their perseverance in relation to the agreement, with an agreement like this, which has also had to link the Government, because the Government has to have duties. In short, this initiative, this non-legislative proposal urges the Basque Government to draw up, implement an action plan for the promotion of the inclusive, participatory Basque business model, for its further development in the current legislature. It's a complicated job. I understand it's not an easy job. Many issues, many areas that have to do with business and, of course, industrial development, and other characteristics need to be addressed, and in this regard the Government has a complicated task. But within this legislature it has to complete in this plan the following policies: continue and deepen the support for the dissemination and implementation of participatory management systems characteristic of the participatory inclusive model, extending it to the definition and implementation of best practices in the establishment of internal communication policies of Basque companies; definition of objectives; selection of indicators. That is, key elements for the proposed change. It also stimulates the implementation of employee participation systems in the company's results, collaborating in the identification of successful formulas, which also have reference in other European countries. Facilitate the incorporation of workers into the capital of the company, enabling channels of assistance to make the contribution of each worker. Identify best practices at the international level with regard to tax policies that help promote ownership participation. This leads us to the fact that other institutions will also have to be linked. Let us hope that this initiative can also be discussed and developed in other institutions, such as the General Boards, which have something to say in the development of this inclusive participatory business model, we have no doubt. Appropriate legal formulas need to be considered, and this is a fundamental element for an issue like this to work. Create a register of participating companies; collaborate in the development of a model for assessing the implementation of the participatory inclusive model; collaborate in awareness-raising campaigns aimed at entrepreneurs and workers to promote the proposed participatory inclusive model. We must also say that this initiative enjoys an agreement, a assent, a positive assessment, both from the business sphere, to which we have referred to ask your opinion and which you have seen with good eyes, as from almost the whole or the generality of the trade union spectrum, which you have seen with good eyes also these kinds of formulas, these models. Some are more reluctant, others are more enthusiastic, but in any case, I believe that this is also well connected with what we have said about encouraging the inclusive participatory model with campaigns aimed at entrepreneurs and workers. Prestigate companies that stand out in the implementation of the model through the organization, of some recognition. That's okay, of course, because now we're gonna have to see how it works. Develop training activities, provide budgetary resources necessary for the dissemination of this model. Well, basic issues that affect the work that the Government is going to have to do. And also, in a second part, this initiative has an instance for all the Basque institutions, which, according to their respective competences, implement as many measures as they consider necessary to promote the participation of workers in the results and capital of enterprises, etc., etc. This initiative will also be good if it is discussed in other bodies that have to do with business development through their fiscal policies. And I think it will be good, to complete this circle of agreement, that this initiative can be seen in those areas and in those institutions. I believe that an interesting step has been taken in the agreement, not only in the agreement of the parliamentary groups, but also in the agreement of the economic and trade union and social actors. So, in that sense, I want you to have an important walk. I think the good thing will also be to see some example, see some example of this formula, see that once some doubts have been cleared up or the legal issues and the model facilitated, we can see how this interesting theory can be transferred to reality. And of course it is nothing incompatible with this that we are doing with productive or business models. In other words, a cohabitation must be sought, a collaboration between the traditional business model, the models of the social economy and this new model which, in some way, must have an impulse. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u4	Yes, thank you very much, President. Today we are debating in this plenary a PNL that reinforces the commitment for the social economy that the socialists had considered to be one of the axes of this legislature and that is being developed by the team of the councilwoman Maria Jesús San José. And this proposal has two essential characteristics: the inclusive model, which is based on the conviction that workers are an essential asset for efficiency and competitiveness, and the unanimity in the drive for initiative and shared work, which all groups have carried out, with an active and committed collective on this subject, such as the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta, to which I greet and which today accompany us in this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u6	We don't start from scratch. We came from strategic social economic guidelines that led us last June 4th to hold a monograph. There, on the proposal put to us by the Counsellor, we agreed on important resolutions that will allow further progress in the development of the social economy in Euskadi, and that are fully aligned with the axes of action that derive us from the European institutions. But they also affect, in a cross-cutting way, other plans of different departments of the Basque Government, such as the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan of Euskadi 2020, the Interinstitutional Framework Strategy 2020 Basque Country, the IV Youth Plan 2017-2020, the 2015-2018 University Plan or the Basque Vocational Training Plan 2018-2021. The European social economy derives from the European Strategy 2020, which places as priorities creating value based on economic growth, enhancing the role of citizens in inclusive societies, as well as creating a competitive, connected and more environment-friendly economy. And it must also be linked to the sustainable development goals within the 2030 agenda, which highlight the 17 cross-cutting global goals that have marked an important challenge for the future and that are leading Europe, such as ending poverty in the world and protecting the planet in order to improve life in a sustainable way for future generations. Within these 17 objectives, the social economy is considered to contribute substantially and directly to the promotion of industry, innovation, infrastructure, decent work and economic growth, the establishment of a responsible production and consumption model and the achievement of sustainable development goals. All this will also enable us to move towards gender equality, since progress in the social economy is also progressing on an equal footing. Among the different resolutions adopted in the above-mentioned monograph on social economy held in this Parliament on 4 June, a proposal from the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups was adopted calling on the social economy management to develop a joint strategy together with the other departments concerned, allowing the promotion of an inclusive Basque participatory business model. In this non-legislative proposal, the inclusive participatory business model that we present today as another alternative to take into account, as a new business model, has among its principles the primacy of people, the creation of quality jobs and the social objective over capital, where the priority is voluntary adherence to the project and the democratic control of its members and the incorporation of workers into shared management of the results and ownership of enterprises. We have dealt with this model in different committees, on various occasions throughout the previous and current legislatures, and it ends today with the joint presentation and unanimous agreement of all groups, in order to continue to advance in the development of this new humanistic model of enterprise, on whose central axis must be found, as I have indicated, the equality of all those involved in this entrepreneurial project. Seeking the promotion of sustainable jobs of quality, promoting work reconciliation, a management as we have already said shared, an increase in confidence through a model of information transparency, a greater balance of distribution of wealth in that society, which would certainly reduce conflicts within it. All this within a Basque model of enterprise, in whose promotion the Basque public institutions will participate, it is very important to carry out a work in favor of the development of the culture necessary for this change of model. But not only must the institutions be involved, but this change of model also depends on the employers or managers who are to initiate the change and on the social and trade union actors. This model gives priority to the sustainability of the collective project on the interests of any individual group, sustainable growth strategies on short-term profitability strategies, to allocate information R & D activities in a percentage higher than the average of the sector, also devoting a percentage of beneficial social responsibility activities, among other measures. In the proposal for a law presented unanimously, with the agreement of all the political groups in the House, the Basque Government is urged to carry out an action plan for the promotion of this Basque inclusive-participative business model, which sets out the objectives set out above. The Basque Government should also seek the most appropriate legal formula for carrying it out, for the creation of registers of participating companies, to collaborate in the development of evaluation models so that the inclusive-participatory model is implemented and possible improvements can be evaluated, to collaborate in awareness-raising campaigns that encourage it – which are essential – and to develop training activities in business management for workers and their representatives and to have the necessary resources to do so. In the parliamentary sphere, the Committee on Labour and Justice is urged to follow up annually on the implementation of all the recommendations contained in the non-legislative proposal, which we are going to adopt unanimously today. My parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, are pleased with the non-legislative proposal that will be adopted in this plenary to promote the Basque inclusive-participative business model. And I think we should congratulate ourselves on the work that, in a joint and unanimous manner, all the groups in this House have carried out in this initiative from the beginning together with the certainly fundamental collaboration of the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta, without which it would not have been possible, and that I believe it culminates with a non-legislative proposal that work will be important to present this new model and put it also on the table as an alternative to be used by all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u7	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u8	From our coalition, first of all, what we wanted today is to thank the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta for the work they have done for many years and that in part will see today the light or a beginning with the approval of this GNP. And especially thank you for having carried out this approach that we are finally discussing today in the House, with the voice of people in this country with a very powerful involvement in our socio-economic reality. And, of course, from our group, we are grateful for the participation of solvency unionists demonstrated in the defence of the rights of the workers of this country. For us this issue is very important. And it is an initiative whose objectives we share, we almost share that fully, especially on the basis of four elements: the achievement of a reality of quality jobs in our country, the sharing of wealth – which is not at all a minor issue –, economic democracy and also the contribution of business and economic reality to the social environment in which it develops. We believe that the model of enterprise that arises in this GNP, if it develops, develops correctly, at least from our point of view, can be an alternative model to the model of traditional capitalist enterprise that we currently have and that basically represent Confebask companies in our country. An alternative model especially in relation to the role of workers in enterprises. An alternative model in terms of the participation of women workers in management, but also in the economic performance of enterprises. And an alternative model in terms of day-to-day business practice, in terms of communication, information and co-participation in decision-making. That is why we think that this model is an alternative business model, which perhaps poses a different logic to what we are used to in our companies. A logic that contrasts the logic of economic benefit as the only objective in companies with a model that somehow puts the livelihood of people working in companies as the objective. That is why we believe that the substance of the proposal implicitly raises a criticism of the capitalist logic of business functioning. Because proposing a change from one business model to another more participatory in ownership and management for effective redistribution implies, in our view, that the majority model currently represented by Confebask is primarily aimed at privatizing profits and controlling the economy and businesses. And, on the contrary, this model poses a clear position for the extension of information rights and trade union consultations in companies, and establishes trade union control mechanisms that allow the working party to gain ground in management and property. It is a model that can at least, therefore, if it is really oriented in that direction, reinforce the counter-power of the workers in the country's economy, and guide economic logic in another direction. We are not talking logically about socialism, but we are talking at least about the implementation of an economic logic that breaks to a large extent with capitalist hegemonic logic through objectives and alternative practices in the business world. That is why we are going to stress that it should not be confused, and we are not going to allow, the Basque Government to make propaganda, to have the temptation to make propaganda and to confuse with interest the promotion of the extension of a business model like this, which sinks its roots in co-operativeism, trade unionism and, above all, in labour societies, to confuse it with the so-called new model of labour relations of Adegi and Confebask, whose intention is basically to individualise labour relations and destroy the collective organization of workers. That is, quite the opposite of what can be developed with the initiative that is being put forward today. Although we know that all paper stands and this GNP, like so many others, runs the risk of staying in a drawer after being approved or, what would be worse, that someone has the temptation to turn around the interpretation of contents to consider anything as an inclusive, participatory business model. We will be vigilant so that it can be developed in the sense I explain to you, while we believe that it can go further to implement it by developing concrete initiatives to promote a true economic democracy. The struggle for economic democracy is a backbone for our coalition. In the document we presented in the Self-Government Paper we already raised this issue. There we pointed out that the countries with the highest productivity are those in which the participation rights of women workers in the management of companies are greater. The highest and best productivity occurs in countries where trade unions have greater rights to co-decision, especially in relation to mergers, acquisitions, investments and divestitures. That is why we proposed that, in the short term, public policies in Euskadi, both in the public and private spheres, should strengthen the procedures for informing, consulting and involving workers. Something about this initiative. We proposed, in particular, the inclusion in the chapter of the socio-economic sphere, that the governments of the different Basque institutions should have an obligation to promote, together with the different economic and social actors, the establishment of mechanisms of economic democracy in enterprises, as well as the participation of trade unions and workers in the management and ownership of them. Our approaches are therefore compatible with the initiative we have on the table today, but we are clear that it is not compatible with the approaches and, above all, with the practice of our country's employer. That is why I, to a certain extent, do not share one of the statements made by Mr Carmelo Barrio. Obviously, if this model is developed, it will have to coexist with the model that we have today, with the model that Confebask represents. But, in our opinion, they are not compatible. We are convinced that what is approved today is not compatible with the current employer, is not compatible with Confebask, with ADEGI, with the CEO, with business organizations that promote and carry out practices contrary to those explained today in this non-law proposal. The participatory inclusive business model cannot be what Confebask does in its day-to-day life, disguised as participation the systematic violation of collective bargaining. This is not what Confebask does when it sends letters of recommendation to companies on how to deal with collective bargaining to strengthen their position of strength vis-à-vis workers. What we assume today is not, in our opinion, compatible with daily practice in Confebask companies, starting with the rights of information and consultation under Article 64. Information that is much talked about in this GNP and in justification and that in the day-to-day business of Confebask is a daily battle of representatives of the workers. And what about the unilateral application of working conditions that is practiced on a daily basis in the companies of this country, whether in a formal way: "I apply to you an agreement that does not concern you and if you do not agree already if that denounces me", or de facto, individually: "I apply to you the things of the agreement that interest me and the same, if you do not agree, if that denounces me". I could spend the whole morning giving examples of how Confebask's daily practice is absolutely incompatible with this model we are discussing today. I would like to focus on the fact that the model we are discussing today is compatible with many of the aspirations and approaches of representatives and representatives of workers. And it is compatible, as I said, with our coalition's approaches to advancing economic democracy. What I do think is important to note is that this initiative will not have a good future if, when it comes to developing it, it does not have social partners, and this is a council that gave me yesterday an already historical unionist of this country, which first was of LAB and after Workers' Commissions. And he was telling me that it's a good initiative, it's a good start, it's a good move, but it depends a lot on how it develops so that we can actually say that in the future there is another kind of business model that we can call inclusive-participative or that, as so many times in history, an initiative that we believe is laudable, can be supported, we have signed and we will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u10	Hello. Good morning, everyone. Like everyone who's spoken before, I'd like to begin to confess and thank you for the work of my intervention of the ALE Society, the Friend of the Ariats. These have not been the helpers of this enterprise, but the soul of this enterprise, the chief pusher, and the leading man. We are speaking of an inclusive pattern, a new pattern, and, of course, when you propose a pattern, there is also an opposition, the pattern you want to overcome. And I think that what we test today marks the compass, a new north, which is now removed from the standard which is now in force. We must start, we must approach the 21st. To a century model, we must overcome the model of working in which the patricians are to-day engaged, in 19th. the dependent. The same pattern which is now established is imposed on by the patricians, of the hierarchy of models, and it divides the properties and the workers radically. Patronal stands in front of economics with his usual mants and his mantras in any economic context. They always claim to pay less taxes, to be lower wages and to multiply benefits. Benefits, of course, for masters. When things are wrong, when there's a crisis, it's a formula for taxing corporations, paying lower wages and multiplying benefits, and when the macronomical data is made to improve, so as not to endanger the potential recovery, to lower taxes, to increase the pay, to increase the profits. And to impose this, you must act with your own iron fist in the sphere of your work-related relationships, to force these dynamics to go forward. This is the model we now have, and that is the model we wish to overcome, which we have proposed, and which this parliament has agreed with unanimous unanimous consent on the theoretical level. It is at least a step to build a pattern. This pattern is generated around three keys: a humanist, advanced, and euscal pattern. And from this point of view it develops four axes: the cooperation, the cooperation, the support of the company, and the root of the company in the community. And for this, as far as may be expected, it is to make a specific plan of government round these axes, to plan the precise measures of the attorneys, and the Parliament takes up the engagement to continue it. In this other part of the law, as it does not sometimes happen, it is as important as the text in which the vote is voted. The meaning is not merely an additional or formal attachment, but is developed in this direction by the axis of the new model, and then by the same law, certain proposals to take steps about it. But we believe, then, that we must read and examine the whole whole, and that we only understand that the logic of what we test is placed in this general context. There may be, as mentioned above, different temptations or misreadings about what we are going to approve today. To give an example and reference to participation. It is an example that may be a little caricatured but could be perfectly real, and it is an example that, by the way, I already put in the commission when the Arizmendiarrieta Friends appeared. And I'm saying this by quoting myself, I'm not going to be accused of self-plagiarism, but it's an example that reflects very well the shortcomings of doing things half-way. Let's imagine that a worker, driven by that spirit of popular capitalism, decides to buy some shares of his company. Invest in them, for example, a thousand euros. Subsequently, this company, which is a multinational company, decides to make a restructuring plan at the global level in which plans are envisaged to close plants and, for example, 4,000 layoffs. Immediately, as usually happens, and if you follow the economic news, that company will raise its stock exchange listing, because normally investors, markets reward these kinds of measures. What can happen to our investor or investor, worker-worker who wants to do with a part of the company? So let him go out on the street with shares that have been revalued by 5%, yes, but fired. And the manager or director who makes the decision to make this restructuring, charging a substantial bonus, because they charge based on the value they give to the shareholder of the quote of the shares. Therefore, participation cannot be cardboard-stone, participation cannot be fictitious, participation cannot be symbolic. Participation has to be real in ownership, information, management and decision-making, and that is what this model clearly sets out, and that is why we understand that it is a good starting point, it marks well the objectives to which we want to aspire. Another temptation that may exist is to counter this collaborative and inclusive model with the confrontation or confrontational dynamics that some unions claim. And it's true that maybe some unions are a little innocent, because the employer does the same but in a more sibilian way. While some unions openly talk about confrontation, the employer is always more subtle and uses another type of euphemism. That's why I'm going to repeat again a phrase that I also uttered in that appearance, in which it's one of the few times that some representative of the business and employer world speaks clearly, and it's that famous quote from investor Warren Buffett when he says, "Actually, there's class war but, first, it's my class, the class of the rich, the class that's doing it, and, second, it's my class that's winning." We rarely speak with that sincerity and when in the context of this country's labour relations we see that there is a high level of confrontation and confrontation between the parties, we have to understand that this does not respond to a trade union whim, nor to a decision to create confrontation because yes, nor to strike because yes, but rather to a legitimate and necessary response to a systematic attitude of the employer to cut rights and to cut wages for workers. That is perfectly defined, perfectly structured and perfectly supported by governments in both Madrid and Gasteiz. The labour reform that the People's Party government did, which provided continuity to other previous reforms, has as its express objective the destruction of labour relations, the unprotection of the working class, the deprivation of the instruments to trade unions and workers to defend themselves through collective bargaining. This has as its express objective to achieve the objectives and as a result to obtain what they call euphemistically "internal devaluation", that is, to lower wages. And that's no coincidence, that's what you're looking for, and the Basque employer is consciously applying that legislation, precisely to achieve that goal, to lower wages. Therefore, the decision of confrontation is a decision imposed by the employer, and I think it is better that there is confrontation than that there is submission when they come to cut you rights and cut you wages. Social peace is not a rush, social peace is a consequence of just labour and social relations and, therefore, the trade union response is a legitimate and necessary response to the widespread attack on their rights. It may be said that he's been a little better in the past few months, at least as far as the signature of the agreements is concerned. The results of last year were a little better. After a few years we didn't sign anything, we just signed it a little, but no euphoria in front of it. Last year, it's true that more labor agreements were signed, but last year, the average of the year's leases was 1,5, and this year's lease of labor agreements, 2,2, and the number of the inflation we have this year in August, 2,2,2. That is to say, the convictions which are signing this year do not regard any remuneration of the purchase power, and the workers who had been renewed by the contract last year have lost a score of 78 points of purchase as regards the capacity of purchase. And in order to achieve this, in order to obtain this minimum increase in the sum of the labor contract, the number of the Gregorbs multiplied last year. The strike days passed from 580,000 to 60,000. It was only thus that it was obtained to sign more convictions, and thus only to obtain that pilicine ascent of the one. So the road is marked: It's the way to strike, it's the way to confession is with this Pathonal, and the answer is the way. We'd like to do things in other parameters, but with this patronal, unfortunately, there's no other way. This agreement, which is signed here unanimously – and I think we have to say things as they are – has also received some criticism from the two main unions in this country and, as a left-wing force we are, we would be absolutely irresponsible if we did not take those criticisms into account. Fortunately, although we share much of these criticisms, these objections relate more to the shortcomings of the agreement than to the presences. That is to say, they criticize for insufficient and for lack of things, rather than criticizing what has actually been signed, which they consider to be more or less satisfactory but insufficient. I therefore believe that we have a commitment there to continue completing this agreement and to continue developing it and adding things that may be missing. And it is true that this agreement comes at a bad time. It comes at a bad time in reference to labour relations, it comes at a bad time as a result of the agreement that the Basque Government has signed with Confebask, an employment agreement that has energized the Social Dialogue Bureau, the Social Dialogue Bureau in which the two main trade unions were already missing. That is to say, we do not have a good situation in the world of work and, indeed, we do not have too much confidence in this Government's commitment to align itself with the working majority of this country and its rights. Rather, we see exactly the opposite, a very clear alignment with the employer, who is dictating economic policy, who is dictating fiscal policy, who is dictating budgetary policy, industrial policy and also employment policy. Obviously, today we have reached a consensus agreement, among many other things, for the good arts of the Association of Friends of Arizmendiarrieta, but we also have to say that from now on it will be very difficult to reach agreements on labour relations with the parties that support this government, because we understand that their attitude of absolute submission to the employer makes it very difficult for us to find ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u12	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. In a country where the agreements of the different parties are so frequently so frequently blocked, beaten, and despised, the five groups of this Chamber seldom seem to have agreed with one mouth to manage the human positions, the results, and the intervention of the workers in the company's possession, upon a new example of euscipation. Not only are the several members of the legislature but very seldom, in a subject which is really capable of supposing so profound a change of each of us. This is still the case with the legislature, which supposes the modification and activity of the internal relations of our business in the world of business, dependence on the machine of its physical or exclusive constitution, the management of knowledge upon persons, and a deep adaptation to new forms of knowledge which have left them to understand their projects. This is the great change proposed by this new euphora model of enterprise founded on a humanist activity, from the planning of equality and dignity, from a higher distribution of social employments, of shared management, and of wealth. This is a newscast feature that highlights four activities on which the company's inclusive pattern is based. In the first place, the responsibility for collaboration, reaction, and personhood, which has hitherto existed as a fundamental attitude in the business world, and the paradigm of an existence confession. This means in the text we approve of today, our informative transparency, the formation plan of workers who will allow themselves to be included in a shared project, without any distinction, whether the prices or internal promotion, the equality of the possibilities of women and the promotion of the family. The second characteristic is the division of the workers in management, or in the results, or in the property, in front of the paradigm of the radical distribution of capital and labor which has hitherto been brought to confession. Accordingly, the management system is established by the representatives of workers in the decisions and control organs of the company, directly or indirectly, by means of an intermediate society, in which the workers would like to share a collective access to the property which they can contribute to, and also to convert them into company, to promote the contributions of workers with a percentage of the results. The third course of activity over the interests of interests consists in preferring the stability of collective project to the preponderance of permanent growth over short-term incomes, directing the profits of the year to the average 50% of its own stocks, and directing a larger percentage of sales than the average of the sector to the I+Gra, the investigation+generacy, which would be corrected. Lastly, the fourth element which marks this part of the model, consists in considering the wants of the community which is placed in the extreme distribution of the business and social responsibility. And so, not only do the discharge of local labour, environment, and tax law, but also the direction of a percentage of profit to the duties of social attention, in answer to the contributions of the company. In this circle, the importance of the intervention of the workers in business is to be underlined, for the support of the media, and the subjection of companies to the village as the main key is to prevent the decoration of companies, or the change of decisions. President Urkullu told us the words of the principal director of the International Organization of May 25 last May. Here, after describing the crossway where the work is, this director added to us the following questions: Where do future jobs come from? What sort of jobs are they? Can we live any better? To this the President added: How can I answer that challenge from Basque? It would be a great advantage to me if I began to answer these questions, but I am convinced that from the principles we are here to-day, from which and against all the changes, challenges, and difficulties that are to be offered to us on the way to the future, we can establish foundations in a company where we can live with worthy and stable employments, a company that can give us a good life. And, by the way, here it is with the largest consensus, a member of the legal teams that we approve of inclusibly, a receiver model from the Basque. Since we signed this non-law proposal and transcended through the media, I have heard various comments. I would highlight one that has been repeated several times. I was wondering if we were going to co-operate with the entire Basque economy. The answer is blunt, no. Simply, while respecting the freedom of choice of everyone when it comes to forming their company, we make available a model to develop, which we consider to be socially more just and absolutely rooted in the country, with the need that there is in the times that run, a model that can contribute in the short or medium term to answer from Euskadi those questions that were asked: Where will the jobs of the future come from? What will those jobs look like? Are we going to live better? Three things to finish. One, in the name of the legislative party of the Eubertians, I would like to thank you for the effective, substantial, and generous work which Arizmoereta's friends have given me. Two, I am addressing you again to challenge you from this tribe of the Parliament. In June, if you try a little tonight, you can convince Jean René Etcheweray for Christmas. No way, he took the time. And three, one thought, and one thought. I read a thought of Robert Kennedy long ago saying: "They look at the reality around them, and ask why? I dream of what we have never seen before, and ask why not? "I don't know. And think of it from his hand. Today the dream has come down to reality, now it has to be realized. Now the keystone of transformation and the transformation has been the path of struggle, of confession. How many times have we heard that the road is a struggle? In my opinion, the paradigm which we have so often talked of today is beginning to change, and this new paradigm says: It's in the work of each other. Why not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Is someone willing to join the second round of answers? No. Then we'll go to the vote. [[Silent]] Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the Eucabertians, EH Collect, together with the original text of the same proposal as Podemos, the Sociists, and the parlamentary teams of the Basque Groups of poplaulars together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u14	So, unanimously, the original text has been accepted. Before we proceed, I'd like to tell you that at 12:00 we'll be joining in at the gates of Parliament in order to find out the killings that have been killed this week. Second point on the subject list: "Go and collect the proposition of the same law as the parliamentary teams, concerning an examination of the proceedings necessary to harmonize work and school hours. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposer's turn, EH Collect Group's turn. The lady of the Cortha, who represents her representative, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. As we speak again of the tolerable life, my first words are for the Maguette murdered by the matist violence. Let us from here join our union, our support and all our love for his two little ones, his relatives and friends and the instinctive community, because we're enough and sick. By coming to the subject, when it is time for a holiday, the question of labor, education, and personal life, becomes everywhere a recurring problem. Something similar passes even at the beginning of the year. I suppose some of you would have passed without going far, even when we had that long Plenus of the Politics of the past week? Yesterday a friend said to me: "Go on, in the end, the children start early and afternoon at school tomorrow. That's two weeks. We've been out of line." Or the problems that come to be a nightmare to a lot of parents, don't you think? A lot of parents have to take vacations, require restrictions to help their children in the first days of school. Look, a parent in a blog told us about his three-year-old son's school, and I think he shows up very well what the situation is. The group of 20 children is divided into four groups, and the first day, from 9:15 to 9:45 in the room, from 10 to 11.30; the C team from 10:45 to 11:15; and the D team from 11:30 to 1:00. In the second place, two teams are made: one from 9:15 to 10:15, the other from 10:30 to 11:30. Two more days. Friday, the whole team meets from 9:15 to 11.15, and so on between two and four weeks. I don't want to doubt of these high adages, however, is the intention of the discussion to-day, but on the table for many families it becomes a real trouble to follow the hours established by the schools and children's lessons in its everyday life. Just an article published in September last year said that the period of school adaptation conditioned – and I think that's the word, "condition" – this month the lives of 7,000 families in Araba. Although enrolments have dropped this year, there is no doubt that it is a problem that has a very important dimension for many families. It's the same with Christmas or Easter vacations, no more than in summer time, or on bridges, or in carnivals, or with those teenagers who finish schools for three o'clock with a continued schedule, and have only a few hours at home, isn't it? We see with all these the difficulties which arise from the breach between the work and the educational world, and which it produces in a family and personal life. It seems almost impossible to advance, and these parents, as has been said before, the conditions of labour, the conditions of their parents, the economic conditions, and their family qualities, become decisive in such cases, in order to face such circumstances. Because the truth is that it reconciles the one who can, not the one who wants. One of the articles published these days on this topic collected testimonies from parents, and they are very enlightening. One said that tying is not conciliating and, indeed, tying is not conciliating. And another said, "My reconciliation is my parents, my aunt and my family." Egia esan, nire kasua ere hori bera da. And in this sense, there is also a very significant data, a data that provided a study by the Basque Government, and said that one in five grandparents and grandmothers, more grandmothers than grandparents, care for almost five hours a day of their grandchildren and grandchildren, five hours that even if they do not consider it a burden, it is many hours. For it is impossible to fill up the working hours for many parents who have children, who hold up their lives, if they have no one behind them who takes care of their children, but one of their parents, a grandfather-mons, or a man who has been paid ill-paid and often paid. It is impossible, if we have no proper and sufficient means of support to unite school hours and factory hours, or if women do not once support life. As we described it to him, this is a case with many ends of thread. The order of care lies behind this question, the differences between productive work and refractory, the differences between men and women, the social condition of our present age... In fine, there are many and many of the elements which have been discussed in this legislature about demography and family police, which are behind this subject. It's a big deal of strings, it's a complicated one, but it's a knot to start letting go. One of those threadheads, no doubt, is the business of the hours. Many scholars say that we are suffering the effects of the absurd, and even the school-hours have a great deal of inertia. They ought to be the development of the child in the middle of their logic, but we also have experts who doubt it. With the difficulty we have for habit and change, we hold the hours of work which have more to do with hardness, and the obvious fact is that we have time and it is essential to take steps in relation to the harmony of life, labour, and school hours, which are equal to the consequences of these unbalanced. The stability of the social organization of the present care, the instability of productive and refractivative work, maintains these differences between men and women, and even the instability of children is given between willing and being. According to a data given by the head physician, the child's education and social life is the primary reason for not having children for under 30 years. This is a problem which has not been solved by the measures which have hitherto been given, and we believe, by no means, that it is essential to put it on the table again. The Family Plan itself, in its diagnosis, states that difficulties in reconciling work and family life remain, which mainly affect young couples, and disproportionately affect women. It is also mentioned that there has been a slight increase in the percentage of the employed population in recent years, which indicates a high degree of difficulty in reconciling work with the care of underage children. In recent years, the percentage of those who report difficulties in adapting their working hours or schedules to care needs has also increased. The Plan itself also recognizes that ours is a model of benefits for the reconciliation of work and family life, a system that is very little conducive to equality between men and women, which tends to keep women in the roles of care, which has an important economic bias and which often contemplates measures that become a kind of trap. It speaks of important limitations that suggest a relatively broad rewording of them. The point is that in this reformulation, in this need that we have to design policies of reconciliation between family, work and school life, in all that is life, policies that are truly effective, when talking about the reconciliation of family and work life, it is true that we find ourselves with different attempts to address this issue from the enterprise sphere. We have also seen in the press these days examples of companies that have taken steps in this direction. We have also seen experiences like that of the anti-stress shifts in which they are experimenting with formulas agreed to distribute well the rest times. This issue seems to us to be fundamental, but in all this there is a missing leg, and it is the leg that involves family life, which is school and school hours. From our point of view, the issue of family reconciliation and working life cannot be addressed without incorporating the school element and its timetable into that equation. And, in that sense, we do not see any steps being taken, it is not even a topic mentioned in the Family Support Plan. We challenge the harmonicization of labor, work, and school hours to correct these ruptures between the world of education and education, cannot be an element that can be removed from the equation. After all, when we made a monographic discussion about the demography, at least in our custody, we thought we were in front of a change of paradigma, which required a deep social transformation to a paradigma change. From the individual care of care, being a family, being a woman alone, we have to jump to a socialized and socialized care. That jump, we have to take that big step, and in this sense we need to push the radical changes. And in order that these changes which are to be given for that purpose may be given, and that all these necessary accounts may be considered, it is essential that all the elements which are essential in this change should be considered. In this regard, as the privilege of uniting work, family, and personal life, and of establishing new balances of reproductive and productive labour, the political policy of having time for life in the new designs of public policies is apt to believe that we must become masters of the work, and so we expressed it in the monographics around the demography. And in this sense, this process of harmonication, which we plan to-day, is essential, and that is why we need to see, at the same time, the ideas of inspirations, begin to experiment and start. And we need it to be a chance to make strong steps. And besides, we have a place to look. We can look in Iceland, for instance, or even look at what we've been to ourselves in these days, we can also look at Norway, and see a pattern that Elin Kvande sociologist presented to us, where the care of care was shared between three agents: on the one hand the family, on the other the state, and on the other the trade of labour. Or we can also look at Catalonia, and in Catalonia, for instance, not only at hours of work, but in the rationalization of hours, they are about to produce a great revolution, and, as was said in a newspaper, reset it. There are other propositions that can be inspirations, and in this sense we think they ought to be examined, not because they ought to be brought in this way, but because experience, which may be the inspiration of our own nature, is proper to consider and examine them. And in the end, with some complex matter in front of us, and a matter which requires changes of structure and deep integrated politics, we proposed. It is to make a thorough and consistent examination, and therefore we introduced this other as we present ourselves to-day, or have brought ourselves to the discussion. The average is not very complicated, as we have described. What we're planning is to take a first step in the compartmental route we're going to make, it doesn't do anything else. And life is planned to correct this rupture between work and the education world, to make a process necessary to harmonize work and school hours, to start a study with different motives. From this point of view, and the possibility of experience with which we are concerned, we shall be able to identify and know. Besides, this examination will be opened by Podemos, and the preparation of answering to the wants which may be at the school's expense, and even at the school holidays will also be provided for by the necessary means. And what we plan is, finally, that in this experiment, and in the first few steps, there is an effort to make a pilot start. We have seen how it is that we make pilots of the experience in the Family Plan with certain companies. Well, it might be appropriate to place these companies in the areas where they belong, to other schools where they can reside either in towns or in cities, running such experiences as these. In this sense, I want to thank both Popular Party and fellow members of Podemus for agreeing with this proposal and doing this with their contributions. And, in fact, I am sorry that in this small step the groups that support the Government have not made one. We believe, as we said, that the necessary modification requires a compartmental work and in this compartment of cultivation is essential to us, because we are finally planning a thorough cultural change for this country, and you and I have maintained that there are certain popular challenges here, and that it is always interesting to reach them from a shared point of view. I'm sorry you didn't get into this initiative today, because it's a great initiative in the life of so many families.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u17	Yes, thank you. Since our coalition, of course, we shared and shared the objectives and also the justification for the initiative and the explanation given by Mrs Kortajarena about a problem that is real, which is a problem that we have in our society. We shared the point of view of working in a balance of hours between the world of work, between working hours and school hours. Although yes, we would like to point out that for us in this balance it is a question of focusing on working hours and working hours, because we think that school hours, the priority in setting school hours, must be the educational needs of children, girls and students in general. We believe that this initiative seeks to alleviate a contradiction that we live in our model, which is a capital-life contradiction in this case, with regard to the care of minors. And, therefore, we share the justification and objective of the initiative, and we also think it is appropriate that the initiative does not talk about anything either, but that two concrete actions were proposed, in order to study how we can address these imbalances between timetables, how we can address this contradiction between capital and life, in the case of the care of minors. He also proposed, in this case EH Bildu, that a pilot project be carried out. Surely this could be a small puzzle for the government when it comes to putting it in motion. I do not know if this is perhaps what has led the groups supporting the Government to fail to reach an agreement, but it seemed really interesting to us. And then, we made a contribution that Mrs Kortajarena mentioned, which is point three and I will explain. But before we explain it, we did want to give our point of view, because we think that this problem and this contradiction that suffer hundreds of thousands of families and women and men, and above all, children in our country is the product of the socio-economic system in which we live. It is a product of the capitalist system in which we live, in which in the center of the scheme is the need for capital and in the periphery are the life needs of the people and the working people and, in this case, the needs that have to do with the care of the minors and, therefore, in the end, in the corner of that scheme are the rights of the minors, in contrast to the needs of capital. And also at the centre of the scheme are the productive tasks of the system and at the corner are the reproductive tasks, among which is the care of children, precisely, reproductive tasks that, as we know, are invisible, relegated to the private sphere and fall back, still fall on women. And this seems to us to be very important as a framework for understanding also what we are talking about and the difficulties we may have in addressing this issue. We think that when it comes to addressing it there are two elements that need to be addressed. One, it is the topic of working hours and days. You know that this is a matter of concern to our group and on which we have already recorded more than one initiative in this Parliament. But we also know what model we have, what difficulties there are, what labour legislation we have and what difficulties there are. But we think that that is where we have to address the issue of timetables. And the second element is the co-responsibility of reproductive and, in particular, child care tasks. Gender co-responsibility, between women and men, but also collective co-responsibility of society as a whole. And the first point of the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party pointed, in a way, to this social co-responsibility, but it did not specify anything else, which is what we wanted to do with the point we have introduced, because then social co-responsibility can be understood in many ways. Mrs Kortajarena was right, social co-responsibility has nothing to do with grandparents taking care of minors when parents can't. And we, therefore, have added a point to the initiative, which has to do specifically with that social co-responsibility, which for us can only be concrete or fundamentally concrete through public administrations and through public resources, through what is of all and all, through administrations, that as administrations, that as institutions, we become responsible for the care of minors insofar as we know that mothers and fathers cannot attend to the care of minors all the time that minors need these care tasks. That is why we added this point, so that it can be studied, yes, but that it can be studied with specific objectives, which is to provide from the public administration the means necessary to guarantee spaces of educational leisure and care in the periods that have been mentioned. Because it's true that it can't be that when summer comes, mothers and parents go crazy about seeing what we do with the girls and the boys, and because it's not just about getting them somewhere during the time they can't be with the parents. It is about whether there is – or what we think there should be – a powerful public system that takes care of minors when mothers and parents cannot attend to these tasks. That is what we proposed in the initiative, which is included. And we will therefore vote in favour of the initiative. We think that it is a good initiative, that it is humble, that it is perfectly achievable and we also think that it could have been supported by all the groups. This does not worry us if it goes ahead, the important thing for us is to go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u19	Good morning, parliamentarians, parliamentarians. I want to explain, first of all, why our group is going to support this type of initiative. You will recall that in the general political plenary the chairman of our group, Mr Alonso, made it clear that the most urgent problem that Euskadi has is probably the demographic, it is the demographic. I mean, and whatever we do in this line, our party will support it. I'm going to give you some data, I'm going to give you some data, it's Eustat data that came out I think just a week ago. In Euskadi last year 17,055 girls and boys were born, and that is 1,185 babies less than the previous year. In percentages, 6.5 less than the previous year. And in Gipuzkoa things get worse, because it's the average, but in Gipuzkoa it's at 7.3%. You imagine if we don't break this dynamic, which is not a problem of demographic suicide, as it is said, it is a problem that in 15 years we are extinct. Babies become extinct in Euskadi if we don't break this dynamic, because they multiply 6.5 by 15, we already have 100 by 100. The kids are gone, there isn't. Let's see, other data. 80% of mothers were over 30 years of age; the average for foreign women was 30.6 and for Spanish women 34.4 years of age to have the first child. And here it has been said that in order to alleviate many times the lack of reconciliation has been taken by grandparents and grandparents. Let's see, if a person has, a couple has their first child when the woman is 34.4 years old – suppose this model reproduces – it turns out that the grandfather and grandmother have 69 when they have the first grandson. And if they're going to have several grandchildren, that's supposed to take care of them, let's say, for 12 years, because they're born every two years, every three years, a new grandson is born, because we have grandparents taking care of grandchildren at the age of 80 and peak. And this is the reality. The model of transgenerational care is also broken, because by increasing the age of the first child, it logically increases the age of grandparents. And I'm seeing that now there are 82-year-old grandparents who are looking after grandchildren. Let's see. Our fertility rate you already know is 1.34 and the replacement rate is 2.1, but when did we lose the fertility rate that would allow the replacement? We lost him in 1979. France, for example, which is a country that we have next door, is at 1.92, but when did you lose the replacement rate? In 2013, when he came, when the effects were already noticed, come on, there was the crisis at its peak. Until 2013 it was replenishing its population. We have not replenished our population since 1979. And I'll be told, and one of the things we've heard is that it takes about 400,000 people all over Spain to come and work with us. We always think of contracts and an orderly immigration. And it's rated for all of Spain at 400,000 people. We do not know whether it is 200,000 or 500,000, but we do have the example of France, which has studied it. He has studied it, because they have been having immigration processes since almost the end of colonization. The first great wave was those of the "black feet" – I don't know if it's a derogatory term and I'm sorry, but it's as colloquially known to them, the "black feet." Well, the French, in their demographic studies, have discovered that the second generation of immigrants imitates the model of autochthonous people. That is, the increased reproductive capacity of this population is eliminated in two generations. So it's not the balm of Fierabras either. And why are two generations eliminated? Well, clearly, anthropologists tell us. A community lowers the fertility rate for two reasons. First, because that community already has a system to care for the elderly, which does not make them have children until I am older who care for me – which fortunately happens between us – and when the infant mortality rate drops. It's just that we're talking about that at the end of the 19th eight more births involved two individuals who were breeding. The moment that goes down... "That's what anthropologists say," it's not a cultural problem, because it happens in all cultures. Attention to the elderly more or less covered and decrease in infant mortality, immediately result in a decrease in fertility. With this I want to tell you that coming people from other places to live among us, of course, enriches us, as long as it is an orderly immigration. It enriches us. But it's not a balm of Fierabras. Ask the French. The second generation copies the reproductive models of the autochthonous. For all this, well here's other data that I'm very concerned about. 44% of the children born in Euskadi last year are from unmarried mothers. That doesn't mean they're mothers who don't have a partner, of course, at some point they've had a partner because if they didn't, they wouldn't be understood to have children. But what is true is that there are many couples who do not want to regularize their situation. And that's acceptable. But there may also be many families in this group who are destined to be single parents. I don't know, it's very graceful to you, but I really believe that 44% of creatures are not born in a stable legal framework that protects their rights... because marriage essentially provides a stable legal framework for minors. Parents can do whatever they want. But at the level of inheritance, at the level of care, at the level of the obligation to contribute to the maintenance and education of that child, the stable legal framework, which is marriage, is the one that best guarantees it. And 44% of mothers who gave birth last year do not have that stable legal framework to protect their creatures, to force parents to face them. That's what I'm worried about. Then, in my next speech, I will be happy to show you some examples of how other countries that manage to have their highest birth rate work. But now I just want to repeat to you that for us this is a fundamental problem in Euskadi, one of the first, and that if this GNP tends to get us to solve that problem in part, we will always agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u21	Yes, thank you, President. We discussed a non-legislative proposal submitted by the EH Bildu group concerning the conduct of a study to carry out the process of harmonizing working hours and school hours. We talk about the need to reconcile working life with that school schedule. We talk about the need to move forward in the synchronization of such schedules, as well as progress in the equitable sharing of the household and educational work of our children. These family responsibilities, which have traditionally rested on women, must be shared among all family members. We all agree on that. Only the reality is still far from 100% shared within the family. And to make progress in them is to advance on equal terms because it is women who suffer the most from the consequences of this lack of harmonization and obliges parents, in the summer, in September, at the beginning of the school year, to harmonize these hours and to resort to different possibilities, such as grandparents, as has been said, or paid carers, or other alternative leisure spaces. And we have recently debated within this Parliament on family reconciliation within a family policy monograph and the demographic challenge, which was discussed in plenary on 21 March. The Fourth Institutional Plan for Family Support has also recently been presented within the Committee on Employment and Social Policy. 2018-2022, on 13 September. And its realization is a priority commitment for the Socialists, signed within the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group at the beginning of the legislature. We are taking steps forward, but within this Plan, of this IV Family Support Plan, it is evident that we have not been able to reverse the birth rate or the perpetuation of inequality; that the current model reproduces the usual model, the one by which they are left at home in the care of minors and the elderly, that they are expelled from their professional careers, that they have much more difficulty in doing so, or that they are dragged into partial employment, even to be more at risk of poverty when they retire. We are all free to choose the family that we consider most appropriate, but if we bet on forming a family with sons and daughters, we also have to try to facilitate more, to the extent possible, the reconciliation of working life and the care of those sons and daughters. Today we are defending our amendment to the whole, the Basque Nationalist Group and we, not because we do not agree, of course, to move forward in conciliation. I have shown that we have just discussed it here in a monograph, we have the 4th Family Support Plan, recently approved and presented within the relevant committee. But I think that it is within those plans that we already have, that we believe that within those plans those studies can be carried out together with other subjects, even I think that the most important thing is to make progress in raising awareness. And that awareness, the need to realize and to make progress in the general awareness in this area in order to achieve this change of culture, so that within companies, such harmonization of hours can be made easier for workers, is the most important thing. And in the compromise amendment nothing says, it makes no reference to the need for such awareness-raising and emphasis campaigns, which is fundamental to us. Because it is of no use to carry out magnificent studies, if we do not get that within the companies themselves, which is where the main problem lies when it comes to being able to harmonize, mainly private companies... Because in the field of public administration, of course, it is easier to take more steps in this direction, they can depend more on the administrations to do so, but in the private sphere it is much more difficult and it has to enter this change of culture within the companies themselves, that they facilitate to their own workers such harmonization, because we can have wonderful studies, that we can have them in a drawer, but they will serve us for nothing until that change of culture occurs. And in the compromise amendment that is to be adopted today, signed by the EH Bildu group, the proposing group, and the Elkarrekin Podemos group, there is no reference at any time to those needs and that awareness that was very important to us. That is the only reason why we considered that we were not going to sign this initiative. But I am going to say that, however, we will abstain, because, obviously, as I started in my presentation, we have to continue to take steps to improve the scope of conciliation, but those steps can also be taken within the studies that have to be carried out, and so it is taken within the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Family Support 2018-2022. In addition, the second axis refers to a number of measures also to be taken in the area of conciliation, such as introducing measures to facilitate the reconciliation of personal, family and working life for persons working in the public sector. It's picked up inside of it. To encourage the inclusion of measures to reconcile working and family life in collective agreements, which are very important when it comes to moving forward, in order to facilitate such harmonization for workers, as I have said before. Promote pilot projects and plans to reconcile personal, family and work life in enterprises. Its involvement, as I have said, is essentially putting the greatest difficulties and obstacles to such harmonisation. Therefore, we, as I said, clearly defend our amendment as a whole, because it reflected this need for awareness which is very important to us. But, of course, as I said, we are going to abstain and we are not going to vote against in order to defend our amendment as a whole, because we believe that any progress in the area of conciliation, of course, is welcome for us. But I do not think that all these studies, which can be phenomenal – that we can have studies that capture the existing problem and possible solutions – will do any good if we do not advance in the awareness that companies have to have, which is where the vast majority of women and young people and of all the citizens who have to reconcile when they have these daughters and daughters, if they are not given such harmonisation from that way, because it would not do much good. No more, no more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u23	Thank you, ma'am. We propose to discuss the matter as well as the question of an examination of a process necessary to harmonize the work and the school hours. Before I come to the subject, I'd like to publish some precedents. We had a monographic pleno about the family on March 21st, where our spokesman confirms all that Mr. In this union a number of resolution proposals were admitted, with great consent, and many of them unanimously. The result is that, during the 2018-2022 period, the 4th of the Familia organizations of Er-Hornami. He prepared his plan and introduced it. The plan has played five axiss, 18 targets, and 116 initiatives, according to the type of measurement, the following may be shown: Sensification campaigns, regulations, examinations, tax investigations, pilots, economics and scholarships, direct attention services and contributions to third sector organizations. As has been said, and as some spoke of other speakers, there is work to make inquiries and inquiries, and at the same time to develop programmes to carry forward recommendations or accuracy. Therefore we must say that we were surprised at the first moment to present to us the like of EH Collect, when the subject was treated as a whole. By memory we found the reason: the initiative and family in the monographic pleno monographics are one of the same or the same. And the surprise, which was not admitted there, brings it back to-day, as a matter of fact, to the whole meeting. We share with the proposer – the proposer and the other groups who have also expressed it – their concern about the situation of reconciliation that many families with small children face in the face of the disparity of working hours and school hours. We believe that the institutional representatives are, we are fully aware of the problem for families in which the two adults work outside the home family conciliation, especially during holiday periods. What do we do with the kids? What activities, colonies are nearby and what schedules do they have? How much do they cost? How do you do this week? You call your parents for such a day that mine can't? Very common conversations in families with minors when the holiday periods approach. We admit that a great problem arises from our families, that we often work in malabarism to unite the hours, and we agree that we must give advance to improve the situation. It seems to us that there is a lot of work to do before we get into the subject like Mrs Sánchez used to say. I think we should have a cultured change without fear. It's still too wide for the belief that the workers who work at work are the best workers who have to stay late, and when they are convinced that this is not the case, the working hours in the state are long compared to other European states, but productive is not higher. So we have a lot of work to do. We understand that the initiative is very good. And about this, even politicians are not models. For example, on Thursdays, we sometimes end by noon, sometimes around six or seven, and with these hours there's no easy contact. I don't mean we're worse than others, not at all. We don't have a set schedule, for good and bad. The other day I heard on the radio an interview with a head of Angulas Aguinaga saying the measures they had implemented in his company to favor conciliation, measures such as hourly flexibility of entry and exit, flexibility to take vacation. They had struggled to put it into operation, because the changes cost, he said. She valued the measures as very positive as they result in the personal well-being of the staff, who is more happy with their work in general. Experiences such as telework are also steps forward that help to reconcile, but that are far from being the usual norm and are not even at all well seen by broad sectors of our society. The thing planned is doubtless of great importance, but, in our opinion, we have labour to do, and not a bad one, before we reach the given harmony. And when you say that harmony is harmonized, what business hours? There are very different hours of work in public or private, in different sectors... What happens to people who work by turns? If parents work at night, should children go to schools at night? We're ready, considering the importance of the thing, to make fun of it. To give the treatment necessary to this subject in the furrows which unite the family into the sphere of the plan: In the case of sensibilization, research and research, program pilots... But we don't see him outside the planet, and that's why we're not going to protect the basic initiative or collect the half-way that Podemos and PP agreed to and we're going to abstium. It's true he didn't surprise us here. The Podemos and Botua had almost the same initiative, and in their time, in the monographics, they both protected him. Here, change came from the Polula Party. We're ready to take the steps to harmonization, but let's use the potential plan we're going to use. We've got measures and a lot of exact initiative to do this. The IV Inter-Institutional Plan for the Family believes that it is the right umbrella framework to deal with the steps to be taken in order to achieve a harmonization of working and school hours. It seems to us essential that it be carried out as a further measure of family policy, understood as a whole, favouring reconciliation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Chotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u25	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. We have maintained that politics ought to become the chief part of the work. We defended it thus in the plune of the demography, and it was also admitted in that plune. And that's where we've installed this initiative for today. And Mr. Hernandez said, we are speaking of the harmony of the hours, and not of the manner in which we define them, not of arming the hours, nor of the market, of the need of labour. We want life to be vital in child and adult, and so we put it in monographic plune. We understand these policies as "como pollíticas de Buden vivir," and in this respect, we do not want to see our children in 24 hours' school. And we don't want to see them for hours of work that don't end with men and women. And we don't want to see our children jumping from the extra school to the extra school, and we want to see them play, even when they're at ease and need to enjoy them. We want the children and adults who enjoy their lives to have armed hours. That is, we took this initiative from this point of view, and so we set it up, of course, in the monographic plune and that's no surprise at all. It seemed to us that this might have been a pretty initiative and it didn't work out, so we brought it back to the discussion, which I believe is legitimate and that it's no problem at all. I would say to Mrs Sánchez that your approach to awareness-raising is perfectly compatible with what is proposed in this initiative, and that it is not exclusive. I want to say that if you had proposed to us to include awareness, we would probably have included it because, in fact, we have to do that work with companies. Indeed, there is much to be addressed, there are issues that are also addressed in the Family Plan, and there are other areas where harmonization must also be addressed so that we can have time for life. But, of course, these awareness-raising tasks seem very interesting to me and I do not consider them to be exclusive. Goodness initiative And when you proposed the Family, you stated that there was a change in some way, and the Faraway gentleman said, with previous plans, new plans, and the Family treaty brought a change. When you read the history of the plan, and read the goal and location, it almost happens that we're going to another scene. That we're not just talking about native policies, that we're going to other changes, and you were talking about these cultural changes. And in that sense, I don't think this initiative is a Buddhist. It is, however, an an anbito that does not exist in the plan, or an an anbito, of those lives which are, as it were, everyday and vital, which in this project of life becomes an important element to the desktop, to watch, and to be able to answer from them. And in this point of thread, we used to say, by examining all these elements that can go round the end of that line, how to answer those questions you made. And what I think is very proper for pedagogy. And it seems to me that the chief physician of the Artola generouss should begin to make pedagogia in these matters too. Let him begin and we will protect him from what he can do in that sense. And as for the plan, plans can't be static. The plans are living, and still more a plan which is directed to a cultural change. I don't think, at any rate, that this study of planning here today leaves the planet upside down or has no use at all. I think it's a matter of will. The different investigations may be proposed, and different views may be proposed, and what is here planned is another. And the plan, looking at a change like this, and looking at the hinges you planned here, if it's static, we have a problem. Because before that plan, it's not at all radical. In other words, it's not perfect, it'll have its good things, but it's not even perfect. And if the contributions that can be made in it and things that can be shared cannot be taken into account or inserted, it seems to us that we have a problem. In any case, even the abstaining will lead this initiative forward, and I believe that, on the way, we shall find it without any difficulty. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u27	Sí. To our group, it is true that this initiative, if it is adopted, is a little indifferent to what framework it is being implemented. I do not know whether PNV and EH Bildu have discussed this issue, but I do not think that is the drawback of having reached an agreement between the different groups. And neither is awareness-raising. Mrs Kortajarena said so. I suppose if someone had proposed it to the proposing group, it would be there, because my group certainly does not have anything against including the issue of awareness-raising. Now yes, I will say one thing. Every time we have such a debate on these issues or issues affecting the world of work and the world of business, we place a great deal of emphasis on the issue of awareness-raising. I think the main focus isn't that. I believe that if at this point those who run and run companies – and this morning we have had a debate on business models – are not aware of this issue, we will not make them aware. Maybe we can convince them with arguments, because it's convenient for them to change modus operandi And therefore, I believe that the initiative could have been perfectly approved by all the groups and I do not know exactly what has happened. But as I said, if it goes ahead, then we don't care too much about the rest. The focus is precisely on the question of harmonising schedules, and for us too the issue of co-responsibility for care is very important. And so, in the world of work, in the world of enterprise, and also in the world of the public, in the world of administration, and that is why we added point three, which is a very concrete proposal and which has quite the opposite of a goodist proposal, because I can give our opinion, not Mrs Arregi? And what we were proposing is a very concrete thing, which is quite the opposite of a goodist proposal; what we are proposing is that we have a public system, that we study having a public system to address that issue of care. Because you were asking what happens to those who work at night and you are right, Mrs Arregi, we will never be able to modify working hours to the extent that they coincide, for example, with school hours. That is why we propose that there be a public system that can handle these things. And therefore, it is not a boonist initiative. Good is to be all day talking about "auzolan" and then signing agreements with the employer without even talking to the unions. That's a good thing. And therefore, I am leaving with the feeling that you are abstaining because the initiative has finally had sufficient parliamentary backing to move forward and because it is very ugly to vote against this initiative. In any case, it seems to us a good initiative, it seems to us that it proposes concrete things. We are indifferent as to what framework the Government is going to develop it, but what is important to us is that the Government commits itself to implementing a GNP that is approved today, which is something that does not always happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular, Mrs. Bengochea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u29	Mrs Arregi, how are we going to change our mind? I repeat, when the chairman of our group, Alfonso Alonso, established that, in his opinion and in the opinion of the group, this is one of the greatest challenges we have. And we haven't followed, which I don't have to apologize for either, but, come on, I just want to explain it to you, because I thought you already knew. We have not followed this GNP; we have made a transactional in which our contributions, why not?, are included in an issue that is so important to the Basque Country. And look, you're absolutely right when you said that those who worked shifts, that no, that we will never be able to achieve this perfect harmonization of schedules. Well, toilets, cops, even, I'm gonna tell you, people who work in construction, that when it rains for a while they can't work and then they have to put in a lot of hours when it's sunny... There are many reasons. And although they do not correspond exactly to this GNP, let me give you some examples of what is being done, for example, in France to facilitate the reconciliation of family and working life. Look, it's especially important from the second son. The first child, unless the family earns less than 2,000 euros, has no extraordinary protection. But, let's see, from the second child up to an income of 75,001 euros, families receive 250 per child up to the age of three. And from the third child, 299 plus 170 euros, which is a family supplement, until the children turn 21. When the two family members work, there is a 50% deduction on the costs of hiring a person to take care of the home. I do not say 50% in the tax return, but 50% of what that person, including Social Security, costs, and that is until the child is six years old. A couple with three children, with 2,000 euros per month, with an income of 2,000 euros per month, pays 80 cents per hour in a nursery, that is, about 100 euros per month for all three. If there are only two, 110 euros. 80 cents. The top income for this type of protection is 4,870. And I'm going to give you a specific case, which is from a friend of mine who lives in France and has three children. Both work and have a net income, the family, of 3,900 euros. It's fine, but in France it's a little less. Let's see, the third son has gone to a family nursery, which they call him a "nunu", which has cost 25 euros a month for five hours a day and, moreover, as they have had to hire one person for five hours at home, because they have paid half, because the other half has been paid by the Administration. The food at school. School food costs from 10 cents to four euros. Depending on family income. This friend of mine, with three children and 3,900 euros of income, pays 80 cents of the menu. 20 menus a month, you get 16 euros per child and the food is finished cooking in the center, they only bring some pre-made things, so, what we say about organoleptics... Well, it's a very nice meal. Free extra-curricular activities. They have two days a week these free extracurricular activities and can choose between: ballet, flamenco – it is that in Hendaya the flamenco seems cool to them – ballet, flamenco, modern dance, English, German, Spanish, rugby, golf, painting, theater, gardening and more. Swimming is compulsory and free until the age of 14. Of course, they don't pay books and even notebooks are handed over to them at school. The entrance to the school for families costs 20 euros, which is a case and three pens, and according to the income of the family. But this friend of mine is responsible, and they have 3,900 euros of income a month, which in France is less than here. Here would probably be 2,200 or something. They receive 300 euros each child for clothing and footwear. See, I don't know if this what I've described to you is much, little, if we could face it, I'm pretty sure it isn't, but conciliation isn't just schedules, it's all that. And you know why I told you? Because look, you have this thing that you love to compare with other countries. Because Euskadi with regard to France, Euskadi with regard to Italy... of course, they make a trap, because those countries have an average between the most developed regions and the poorest regions. You would have to compare with the most developed regions of those countries. Because of course, Italy gives an average, because it has a very rich north and a very poor south. And then, of course, you compare with Italy as we are a very developed region, and we remain "guay of Paraguay". Well, that's why I gave you this specific data. This is what they do in those countries with which we compare ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u30	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u31	Yeah, well, let's see, I'm going to do a little bit about what happened also in the negotiation process of this initiative today. Obviously, the Group of the European People's Party approached the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group because it wanted to arrive at a compromise amendment. He asked us to propose a compromise amendment, we proposed it to him. The silence for an answer, until this morning, about to start the plenary session. That was the negotiation with the People's Party and we were waiting for an answer. Obviously, if you are expecting an answer, you do not begin to extend the compromise amendment on the other hand, perhaps, because we were convinced that the People's Party was what it had done. Here he arrived saying "We support you any conciliation measure; then, we will be with any compromise amendment that supports it." But we were waiting with someone else. And what he did was not say or pious, until we entered the plenary. That's what the People's Party has done. So, I think yesterday what he thought was, "Well, look, in the end, what I'm going to do is I'm not going to support the compromise amendment that they're giving me from the Basque Nationalist group to the Basque Socialist group," because he hasn't even made the slightest intention of changing it. If you're negotiating a transactional amendment and you don't like it, try to change it, but the silence for answer doesn't. "No, look, I've thought before I go into plenary that I'm going to support the compromise amendment..." In their right they are, but, man, you have not made even the slightest effort to approach absolutely for nothing. That, then, has been a bit what has happened with this negotiation of this amendment, of today's. About the group EH Bildu and the group We can say nothing to you because I had nothing to do with it, Mrs Kortajarena, don't get upset... Because I'm already telling you that you've had nothing to do with that negotiation. But, of course, then the People's Party comes here as very good and says, "No, no, it's that we're always going to be supporting anything that improves conciliation." They have not tried with us, they said they had that intention and, from there, they have made a leak and until today, because they have not proposed anything. If they did not agree with what was proposed to them, having offered something more, having said "put this paragraph in, put this in, put the other"... No, they did. Well, of course, that's what has also prevented a little bit of a game perhaps also a little bit wider. It is all right, it is all right, we have said that for us the issue of awareness was very important and, Mr Hernández, the Government, I believe that it is well aware of that awareness. When I spoke about the need for awareness-raising campaigns, of course, I am not talking about the Government, which is already aware, there is no need to raise awareness of a campaign by the Government. These awareness-raising campaigns are aimed at those who have to apply it in the business sphere, of course, which is where the change of culture has to take place, and there is still a long way to go, because in many cases it is not easy and there are many obstacles for workers to reconcile, no measures are taken, or very few measures are taken within collective agreements on the subject of conciliation, etc., etc. So there is still a long way to go and it is quite important when it comes to harmonisation, because that is where they will then have the facility to be able to carry out this homogenisation or harmonization between working hours and school hours which, of course, I have already made clear that I fully agree that it is better to harmonise, I have also told you in my speech. In that I believe that we are absolutely all in agreement, because the more facilities are given to families, of course, the more facilities will be put in place to achieve that increase in birth rate which is also important to achieve in the future. Within our own society, and that is one of the policies that are being pursued also within the Fourth Family and Children's Plan, of course, from the respect of each one of choosing the type of family he wants, but, of course, it is also important for a society to take action in this regard. That is what I said and that is why we have indicated that we are going to abstain and we are not going to defend our amendment as a whole, because we believe that progress in conciliation, all that is progress in measures that can be adopted in conciliation is good and that is why we are simply going to abstain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. And in the end, Eucabertians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u33	Thanks again, ma'am. When I said Buddhist, I didn't mean it. O sera, Buddhist lo entiendo como bienincciodo. That what he wants to look for is good, but what I mean was that it was hard to bring to practicality. I didn't say that in pejorative sense, in any way, that wasn't my intention at least, and you said, Madame Kortaja's...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u34	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u35	This plan, which wants to be a transformer and a culture change, cannot be static. And we agree with this that the plans should be living, and we told you that it was possible for us to go and look for the harmony you planned, the precise measures, the examinations determined on the planet, the investigations, the pilots, the plans which already exist, and the plans which we share. So I think we're not that far away and that's why we're going to abstain because we're not against it. Guk uste genuine, we believed, Mr Hernandez, that it fit into that umbrella and in that Plan, in the measures that had been adopted in this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u36	Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u37	... In this Parliament, many of them, there are 116 initiatives. And we thought they could fit into those reports that are already going to be made and also those pilot plans that are being contemplated. And Mrs Sánchez has already explained how the negotiations had gone and I am not going to insist on that again. On the point that you have wanted to include, that of public services, I have to tell you that there are concrete measures – not one, but several – already contained in the Plan, on the subject of leisure, which, moreover, on many occasions, are municipal competence, but when it was discussed in the monographic plan on this, they are specifically contemplated, and they were approved unanimously. They're already in the plan. It seems good to me that it is gathered here, that is, what abounds does not hurt, but they are already contemplated and not on one but on several occasions, because it was a fairly recurrent subject, as it could not be otherwise, because it is a subject that concerns us all and everyone in the monographic plan and has been collected in concrete measures. With regard to the People's Party, Mrs De Bengoechea, demography is one of the greatest challenges, and we share it too. Mr Alonso, also Mr Alonso, said this in the general political plenary when he vetoed or intended to veto the PNV negotiations with EH Bildu. And when he was told that you also reached agreements, Mr. Alonso said that you coincided, that you did not agree. And today, by chance, at the next plenary session, you have agreed. Of course it is legitimate, but it is not worth saying one thing and then putting in practice another different good. As for what he told me about France and the concrete example he gave us of his friend, I don't have the data. Of course, all that you have said to us will be so, and it is true that France is one of the countries to which you have been looking when making the Plan, the incidence you were saying and the importance of aid from the second child. It is one of the countries that has been targeted in order to develop this plan and it is also true – which you have not mentioned – that in France these measures have been taken for many years and that the problem of solving the important demographic problem that we have in this country, the measures that we are taking, are not going to have short-term consequences, are not from today to tomorrow; they are medium-long-term. Let us all agree on different initiatives because I believe that, in substance, we all agree, and what we need to continue is progress, and I believe that pedagogy is very important and that it is a very cross-cutting issue, and that all sectors should be in the same direction in order to achieve this reconciliation which can also be part of the harmonization of school and work hours. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote EH Collect, the Euskal Populars, and the half-correction that Podemos has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; nobstations, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u39	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I'm interrupting the entire meeting right now. At 1:00 a.m., we're gonna do this, and then we're gonna go on with the next point. The meeting was interrupted at eleven and forty-five in the morning. Twelve o'clock in the afternoon and eleven o'clock had resumed the meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u40	Third point in theme list: "The proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary team together about De Miguel. Discipline and final resolution. On the page of the proposed team, together, the representative of the Podemos has the word to present and defend itself. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u41	Thank you, Mrs. President. Congressmen, Mr. President. Illicit association, money laundering, recruitment fraud, prevarication, fraud, document fraud, continued misappropriation of public funds, trafficking in influence, etc., etc. These are some of the crimes that are attributed to, among others, the then outlaw deputy of Álava, second vice president of Caja Vital and burukide burukides 27 specific crimes, with 26 specific accused, the case of punctual corruption that today promptly removes the sleep of the PNV. Ez of Horror, Erkoreka jauna? Perhaps the fact that most of the defendants are close to Mr Egibar, perhaps the fact that some form PNV governments or perhaps they were the top leaders of this party in Araba, is what explains why today in this Parliament the PNV is going to oppose the institutions from looking elsewhere at a genuine plot of corruption. Egibar jauna, Urkullu jauna, gauza bat gogoratzen diszuet: these institutions are of all the Basques, they are neither of you nor of your party. The money that seems to have been stolen and embezzled by these people has been paid by all Basque citizens, and you, as a government, are obliged to defend the interests of that citizenship, not those of your friends, the corrupt. And you, on the government paper, are obliged to defend the interests of all society, not your friends. Today, these people negotiate with the Prosecutor's Office to recognize their crimes, but they do so after the Basque Government, as an interested party in the case, did not question them to clarify the facts, did not defend the Ertzaintza's actions in the investigation and did not support the Prosecutor's requests against these people. The lawyer of the Basque Government, when the judge gave him the turn to question the accused, said he had no questions to ask. Beharbada zur Gobernuak dagoeneko jakin zuen kasu guztia ez zen zuen ikertu behar? These people, accused of having genuinely mafia practices, who had such a sense of impunity that they did not worry about using in their blackmails the Member of Parliament, who presented false evidence, who blackmailed the party so that they would not leave them alone, have found, as a help, the inoperation of the Basque Government in the case, has found the constant words of support of Mr Egibar. Mr. Egibar, there are countless times when you have come out publicly in defense of the accused of corruption. March 2010, January 2012, March 2016, January 2018. Mr. Egibar, are you going to have the courage today – which was not brave – to defend the innocence of these people again? Are you going to reaffirm in statements like – and I quote literally –: "The penalties imposed by the Prosecutor's Office against my good friend Chicho are scandalous"? Are you going to keep saying you believe in his innocence? Or that his presumption of innocence has been trampled on? Or regret the long years of public incrimination? Mr. Egibar, I imagine you writing a text message to your friend Mr. De Miguel saying, "Be strong Boy, be strong." Mr Urkullu, who is not here but will be listening to me, Mr Egibar blurs every call to dialogue and plurality he makes in self-government. Don't let that ethical commitment against the corruption you were talking about last week sink to you. Do not let yourself be dragged into the defense of Mr. Egibar's dark friendships. He was in time to engage his Government in the fight against corruption and in the defence of the general interest. Garaiz zaude, Urkullu jauna, gaur bozkatuk ditugun gauzak bear sinpleak dira: defend the work of the Ertzaintza and the Prosecutor's Office, reprimand the statements and acts of support to those accused of corruption, reject the corruption and the clientelism that do so much harm to Euskadi, commit the Basque Government to stop being a spectator in the trial. We ask you to remain in person until the end and join the Prosecutor's Office asking for sentences against these people. In short, and I have addressed Mr Urkullu, but also Mr Erkoreka, because I am still confident that he will be able to renew the actions of his party and his Government. Esan ten argi eta ozenki gure herrialdean ustelkeriaren tolerated zero dagoela. This initiative wants Basque citizens to feel defended and protected by their Government, it wants to be proud that there is no impunity for corruption. This initiative wants this Government to stop being silent, silent and looking elsewhere. To me, if they rob me at home, I present myself as an accusation, and if they rob us all in the house of everyone – I remind you again that the institutions are not of the PNV – this government has to present itself as an accusation and not as a spectator of a chair zero, because so far it is the only thing to which this government has dedicated itself, to see and silence. And the defachation of this government in this case has marked genuine maximums. They have silenced even when serious accusations were made against the Ertzaintza, against the police that his Government directed. No one in the Ertzaintza management went out publicly to defend the work of the Ertzaintza judicial agents who worked on the investigation of the case. No one from this Government came out in defence of these agents, nor was the spokesman of the Nationalist Party disqualified, who, at the same time, went out defending the innocence of his PNV friends, even though they no longer had a carnet. Mr Urkullu, Mr Erkoreka, a few months ago, questioned in this plenary by my group, by Elkarrekin Podemos, said that it was up to them to defend the public interest and that they would do so. Like this, how? Waiting for the final verdict? Crossing your fingers to absolve them and save Mr. Egibar's seat? We are faced with a case where the impunity with which the members of his party acted was total, gross. And rude is the connivance they have found in Mr. Egibar and in the attitude of this government during the case. They asked for bites in the official header of the instructions on which they were placed. Zergak was defraudazen zituzten. They were involved in urban operations or directly blackmailing people who refused to participate in their corruption; they asked commissions to award contracts to fingers; they charged bills that had paid all citizens for jobs they had never done, such as contracts from the Youth Directorate of the Department of Culture, which benefited three companies, Kataia Consulting, Errexal and Ortzi Muga, all linked to the plot of Miguel. Mr. Erkorek, you heard right, I said the trama, it's not an isolated case. Contracts that have been tried to justify with plagiarism documents, manually copying a Galician academy. Yes, they have heard well; the Basque Government itself has certified that most of these contracts, up to EUR 210,000, are not justified. There is no documentary record in the records of the Administration that the companies carried out the work for which they did collect. However, Sánchez Robles, former director of Youth of the Basque Government, of course with a certificate from the Basque Nationalist Party, provided the trial with an alleged report justifying one of the awards, a plagiarized document that was supposed to have developed the Errexal company, administered by an ex-concierge of the PNV of Leioa, and that was supposed to be the memory of a course that was never given. By the way, the Galician Academy estimated that for such an activity the budget would have been 3,000 and not 20,000. In another series of documents submitted, there are elements that point to forgery, right, Mr. Erkoreka? Like the different stamps of the Basque Government that are used and that keep important typographical differences with those presented. And it's that the chapuza comes to date fake documents with days that don't exist on the calendar, like February 29, 2007. But Mr. Egibar saluted these people in this parliament with his arms open. In this institution, the PNV spokesman was hugging people accused of blackmail, fraud or theft. Frankly, everything sounds to us: plagiarism, notebooks with accounting notes, the "Boy, be strong" of Mr. Egibar in the form of a hug, we only lack the master's degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u43	Good morning again, thank you, President, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we are not going to make a description of what everyone knows. Many of you are also witnesses to the fact that we are also discussing this issue in your day in this long and extended Parliament. Then I'll talk about it. This non-legislative proposal has to do with the prosecution of the largest corruption case in the Basque Country, of political corruption in the Basque Country and which affects the Basque Nationalist Party and its governing bodies, who were persons with responsibilities in the party who sit on the bench, for criminal behaviors, of different origins and institutions: of the Government, of the Diputation, of municipalities, of technological parks. Well, that's what everybody knows. Having said that, we understand that the initiative proposed to us by the Elkarrekin Podemos group is not well located now, in a plenary. No, in a full like this it's not well located. Moreover, being in full trial, in the final phase of the trial, right?, in the final phase of the trial. I believe that a judicial process is taking place very close to this headquarters today and has entered its final phase. And we understand that this debate is being provoked today with a pronouncement from the House, because it is manifestly inappropriate and quite unnecessary, is it not? I don't know, these attitudes that Mrs Macazaga has described are being judged. It is being done by a court with all the guarantees, which some questioned, but with all the guarantees. In addition, this initiative was presented on 8 February, i.e. before the opening of the oral trial. We could have discussed it, too. She's been in the drawer, to get her out now. We do not think it is appropriate, Mrs Macazaga, to take the initiative. But, well, it's your responsibility, it's your initiative, it's not ours. For us it is the time of the courts and not the time of political statements, but, in the end, they will have to be made. Because if we're forced, it's your decision, not ours. It is clear that the initiative is based on, was based on its presentation, on an innumerable number of criticisms, of intrusions, of attacks that political leaders politically affected by this case have made against judges, against prosecutors, against investigation, against police investigation. Some of us have remembered, we all remember them. There have been many Jeltzal leaders Mrs Macazaga recalled some of Mr Egibar, who has repeatedly referred to this. Even Mr Ortuzar himself has also been allowed at different stages to criticize the judicial protagonists of this process, which affects him today, essentially, I suppose, which affects his party at least. We have seen hugs, displays of support, press briefings in this Parliament – I remember – by the main defendant, without questions. A kind of protagonism that was granted to him free of charge and, in addition to all those issues that we have also seen, those criticisms of research, those unjustified criticisms of research at all its stages. And today we are in a pre-judgment phase. And in this procedural situation, this pre-judgment phase, this oral trial, as we are seeing in the media, we can say that it disqualifies all those hostile attitudes that the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party have demonstrated in relation to this process. That's what's disqualifying all those interventions. Not so much the debate that we can have now, but that trial and that phase that we are in. I must remind you that this Parliament has already had a critical approach with all that has happened in this case, also known as Kataia case, Miñano case, Errexal case. And its derivatives were in the commission of inquiry that was held – I remember them between 2010 and 2012. And it was written and approved. And I advise you that if you have not read it, as a parliamentary work, a broad opinion with conclusions, with recommendations to the Government on behaviour, on systems of control by the Administration, on political responsibilities in relation to what has happened. I would, of course, advise you to read this broad and important opinion adopted by this Parliament. In 40 meeting sessions, many hours of work, I say again, almost two years of parliamentary work, this committee of inquiry worked on the recognition of political responsibilities. In the opinion, there is a finding of damage to the administration. All of this involved a political and public reproach very poorly fitted by the nationalist leadership to date, very poorly fitted. That was a few years ago. Today, what we really want is for the court to act and to rule, for the judges to act and to pronounce and to say what they should say after the judicial analysis of the facts. For us it is not good to pollute that work, it is time for justice. We have not been the authors of the initiative, but we have been presented with a compromise which, logically, we share in part, since one of its paragraphs is very similar, basically the same as our entire amendment. I remind you that our amendment in its entirety says that the Basque Parliament recognizes and supports the work of the Ertzaintza as judicial police and the Office of the Prosecutor in their respective work before the courts, and reproves the public statements and political pronouncements that seek to interfere in judicial proceedings. It seems to me to be a box, it seems to be a first policy, it seems to be a first Parliament, but it must be remembered, it must be remembered, because some leaders have tried to disqualify the Prosecutor's Office, the investigating judge, the judicial police and the whole pre-existing phase of our lives. So it sounds like a lie, but we have to remember. And, in that sense, some of the points in the compromise amendment tabled to us by the proposer and the EH Bildu group – for which we will be calling for a separate vote – do reflect what we were asking for. It is quite clear that point number three, where they say that the plenary of the Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to remain so, so... Let us see, we will not vote in favour of that point three. The Basque Government has acted as a hindrance to the entire judicial process. As a hindrance, not as a facilitator, not assisting with the Justice Administration. It has been a hindrance, that is, it has not been worth anything, that is, it is quite clear that we do not trust, let alone at this stage. At this stage, moreover, at this moment, at this final stage of the oral trial, and certainly prior to the imminent judgment, the Basque Government is irrelevant. There's the court, there's the judges, there's the negotiation the prosecutor can bring with the parties. The Basque Government is irrelevant. So, I say again, it's been a hindrance, right now it's irrelevant Mrs. Macazaga. This will be our position on this initiative, which I say again, is not the best time to present it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u45	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good noon to all. We discussed this Chamber about a year ago in the vicinity of a Basque corruption, and then we tried to explain a very simple concept, from the definition of the Transparenncy International organization round the corruption. "The use of public power" is the corruption according to this international organization. We were saying that this organization didn't make a difference between legal and illegal corruption and why? For, of course, because the laws differ in proportion to the country, and on the one hand we may say, that in a people it is legal corruption, that is to say, to obtain benefits which are not permitted to the use of the public power, which is now done in a legal and legal frame. And on the other hand, that it may be unlawful, and that is what is done out of that law, but always according to each law in the countries. And you hear less about the first, the corruption that is legal, the corruption that is enforced with the law in hand and without risk of the fact being criminalized, surely, by a court. This has, for example, been one of the reasons for the privatization and outsourcing of cost-effective and efficient public services and has served to finance, in some cases, even political parties or their foundations, or to place themselves in clientele, or to place themselves after their passing through certain institutional responsibilities. That legal corruption he was talking about, that first legal corruption, which has turned the cost of public works into a custom too, into institutions governed by certain political parties, or the favour treatment that some companies finally see their boards of directors participating in former public offices or former political leaders. After all, please pay. But in what we are discussing here today, which is the case of Miguel, everything seems to indicate that we are dealing with a case of corruption, a case of corruption in capitals and with all the letters of the word corruption. Illegal corruption, immoral corruption and nothing ethical. This trama, in the Esquimian Esquimia of Euscalia, is in another degree different from the questions we have known in the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzia, a very serious and very serious case of corruption. Batzuek behin eta berriz saiatzen dira Euskadin korruzioa Statue spainarean bath gutxiago ematen de la azpimarratzen. And it probably is. We are talking about the Kingdom of Spain as a European champion in all the forms of corruption that exist and for sure. Spain doesn't mean that there's no corruption in Aran, Biscaian, and Gipuz, and that we live in an oasis. But we're also talking, and it's one of our reasons, we think, that there is not enough, effective, control mechanism in this part of our country to face corruption. Not even a minimum of resources, including the rest, because there's not enough political wills in this area. How many times have we asked for in this Chamber to be a prosecutor against the corruption in the Basque Autonomy Esquire? That is, in the amendment to the whole of the political parties that support the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, in the parliamentary debate we had a year ago on corruption in Euskadi, there was talk of the creation of the delegated prosecutor for economic crimes related to corruption in Euskadi. And it is also true that it was something that we unanimously approved all the parties, but that today is not a reality and it seems that it is not even expected, because it has not been among the priorities of the executive, surely, to request this in the negotiations that have held, at least, in the previous two years with Madrid. Reviewing the government agreement that you, members of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, speak about the Department of Security and Ertzaintza, speak in paragraph 2.b, of vocational training and adaptation of the Ertzaintza: "We will empower and provide more resources to the Ertzaintza units responsible for the investigation and prosecution of economic and fiscal corruption crimes". And to this day, and past the equator of the legislature, we have no news about it. But, moreover, not only in the political sphere, but, if we look at the 2018 report concerning the 2017 exercise of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, we can read interesting conclusions in the crimes against the public administration, such as that the crimes of misappropriation of public funds are brought to the attention of supervisory bodies such as the Court of Auditors or private individuals, and very rarely by the administration itself affected. And why does this happen? It happens because the witness's statement requires a preparatory effort, since possible witnesses, either because they are officials, or because they do not appreciate any advantage in exposing the irregularity, do not usually collaborate particularly in the investigation. And finally, in this report of the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country, the following is added: "The number of complaints of corrupt practices remains very low, possibly due to the personal and professional cost that a criminal procedure entails for the complainant". So, to put an end to corruption, to the want of means and security, and to the lack of will, what is to be done? We've got to put the resources on the table. And so yesterday our party registered here, in this Chamber, a particular proposition, a census of the law-proposed office for the proper practices and corruption, and, moreover, based on what has been approved in May by Navarro, because it is a new law, and also because it is developed in the right Juridic Exercise, we believe that our team has a great chance of going forward and of becoming an EAE office in the future. There, at Navarro, I would like to remember that he had obtained a broad political continent, and that we had accepted the government quartet, as well as PSN, and the Poptular Party of UUPN and Navarre, had been expelled before this law. And that's putting the means together, that's to plan the measurements, and that's to have political will to deal with the corruption. Because we don't stand in the accusation that it might be easy to limit a ship to a government or to destabilize a particular political party, we really want to change things and take advantage of it, we're active in it, and we propose deep measures for the benefit of the public. Ez dugu adibidez ulertzen nola oren –eta publiko egin da– Stoa-n dagoen kontratua... How the contract with the company Stoa, which is one of the key causes and pieces in everything concerning Miñano and the case of De Miguel, how the Public Administration can keep it in force. And part of the responsibility is also of this Basque government, which is 64% part of the Technological Park of Miñano. And it is true that surely in legal terms you can keep that contract in force, but in moral terms and in what with that you move to citizenship and the state of opinion that is generated, is that you are not being relentless with practices that can be an aggravation for the public arks. And for us, EH Collect, in the worthy country we want to build, the serious corporate cases like De Miguel but also the bad practices that we've mentioned before and can be in legal corruption, the corruptions, the trichals, the trichinues, the trichinues... We need a Democratic Hygiene. We have always worked and will continue to do so, because we are very clear that we cannot allow in Basque society the idea that the plots, the corruptes, the plugging, the client networks or the favor deals are something normal, are perceived as something usual. We cannot allow a party or a party close to a political party to think that it is possible to obtain advantages in terms of grants, contracts, tenders or access to certain public service jobs. That's not normal, and we can't just accept it, like it's something normal, because it shouldn't be. And we, and we, the people who make up Euskal Herria Bildu, have a clear commitment to democratic regeneration in this regard, and that is why we believe – and I allude to the first point at least, that it seems that the People's Party can support and that is why Mr Barrio's request for points – that Parliament should express a strong complaint to those who intend to raise doubts about the investigation in the well-known case of De Miguel and who are trying or are trying to condition the trial, to underestimate the gravity of the case or its profound political consequences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u47	Gracias, president. We, as a Socialist group, ratify ourselves in the position we have already worked on two legislatures and what the groups are working on about complaints about the misuse of public money, the absolute rejection of any form of corruption and clientelism, the rejection of obstacles in investigations and the support of recommendations to ensure cleanliness and transparency in the forms of recruitment. This is what I am going to talk about here today, about these 157 leaflets of that committee of inquiry that was made very effectively, even if you weren't, I'm sorry, but it is so. And this was a work carried out by the vast majority of this House after a year and a half of work – as Mr Barrio recalled – in which, among other things, we also had to avoid interfering in what the investigating judge was already doing at the same time, as it is a regulatory obligation, by the way, and of minimal respect for the separation of powers. And we tried to hilarify fine, under the leadership at that time of the representative of Eusko Alkartasuna and with the active participation of Ezker Anitza, Aralar, UPyD, Popular Party and the Basque Socialist Group. We clearly set out the scope and the limits for the identification of political responsibilities and the responsibilities of the administrations to avoid new cases, and we did so in the case of De Miguel, in the case of Margüello, in the case of Hiriko later, and we also did so, to say the least, in the case of the purines of Karrantza, when the irregularities to which they corresponded were communicated from the Government. For not leaving one of the matters that Elkarrekin We may have decided to resurrect now, apparently, for perhaps because they were not at the time, and this one rescues in his closet fund and also those that he has recorded this week, right? With regard to the amendment that you have agreed with Bildu, I must admit that I am positively surprised that Bildu agrees to recognise, even implicitly, the work of Ertzaintza. It is a novelty, but a positive novelty that we have not observed here so far. And in these 157 pages we are aware of all the work in the four open lines of investigation, which explain the full cooperation of the Government at that time, that of Patxi López, in all the judicial investigation and that in the specific case from which this initiative comes, it is expressly stated: "It is not for this Parliament to determine whether its action in relation to the contracts investigated in this Parliament merits criminal accusation, if not merely delimiting its possible political responsibility in the irregularities". I have started by saying that the Socialists have ratified this opinion, also at this point that I have just read, and it is relevant because we are right at the time we were waiting for, in the time when all the responsibilities on the part of those who have agreed to all the evidence, all the documents, all the testimonies, thanks to the work of the researchers and the collaboration of the government at the time. We therefore expressly acknowledge the enormous work carried out by the Office of the Prosecutor and the Ertzaintza, and we acknowledge the enormous work carried out, of course, by the investigating judge. But at the time when the initiative we are debating today is presented, all this, Mrs Macazaga, is already in the hands of a court, where the accused have had and have the right to exercise their defence as they see fit, or to agree on the scope of their guilt with the Prosecutor's Office, and in both cases it will be the court, and only the court, which determines the penalties. This is the position that we should make clear here, unless someone else withdraws from what he endorsed six years ago, which includes the paragraph that I mentioned, or someone who was not then disregards the work that so long occupied us at that time. The Socialists are not particularly satisfied with that task, which contributed, by the way, to the opening of the judicial procedure, because that legislature we had the honour of opening up a new time in Euskadi in so many things, we also set up political and institutional practices that seemed impossible at the time. To remember some, two legislatures in Euskadi began an unknown experience so far. Without any law requiring this, the Government of Patxi López adopted the first Code of Ethics, which established the obligations of all those who assumed public responsibilities under the Executive. To this was added an open information website, Irekia, which served and serves as a channel for citizen participation. It allows and allows to be directly interested in every matter that any Basque or Basque considers appropriate and before the public office that it decides. Conditions for public procurement, the contractor's profile, were also publicized and the data was opened in the hands of the Government for public reuse, such as Open Data. And with all this, in 2012 Euskadi achieved the highest international transparency score. Today in this House, a law is being worked out that does not merely seek to rearrange these good practices, but seeks to keep track of every euro that citizens leave in the hands of the administrations through their taxes, until that euro returns to the citizen himself, whether in the form of services, various aids or grants, for example. We would have liked to have gone faster, but it is clear that what we are beginning to build is bearing fruit and once this Parliament has done the work it had to do, given the data of irregularities that were coming to us, once it is working with Justice, once it is in the process of establishing criminal responsibilities, the Socialists believe that we have made a clear contribution to ensuring that things are as they should be: a commitment to cooperate with researchers, a commitment to reverse recruitment practices from the public sector and a commitment to respect for the separation of powers, which is what the amendment with the PNV is talking about. And we will more or less like what the courts decide, they may or may not meet expectations, but we will respect their times. And this time, today, September 27, 2018, in which you have decided to rescue this proposal that you had forgotten in a drawer, is to wait for the court ruling and remain focused on improving the transparency of our public sector. That's what we've been looking for for for six years and that's what we're repeating again now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u48	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u49	Good morning. I shall not be the first, but the last, to remind you of the time when this proposition was registered and why it was set up as a point in the assembly of the day. Of course, it's perfectly legitimate, but it's very clear why it is. Second time. You want to have some political reference to me, but I have signed the amendment, even in the name of all the rest of the parliaments, and what we say here is this: "It shows respect for posterity in the presence of the trial and in the presence of the judges and judges that may be given by the courts of justice." And yet we believe in the presence of innocence, I believe, and even in the presence of the innocence of all the members of the legislature, as we have been able to verify for years, why there have been cases here, and some of them have been prosecuted, and to-day, for example, have been involved and have not been involved in the legislature, but we have always proclaimed and defended this presumption. Look, what we say is repentance, as Mr. Pastor said, that gambling and decision are at this moment in court. And it is often repeated, on the one hand, that the investigating step was organized in this legislature. He did his work, he's a year and a half old man, and he's called The Courts. This legislature, by a majority, agreed to some resolutions in the next section of the inquiry. Well, some of these resolutions, one of which has been very remarkable, have been deported in the courts. I don't think it's the only thing that's ever happened here, why they were affected by the edge, people, even if they're absolved, and no one's ever asked for forgiveness. Public conviction was received and political, though now it's acquittal, no one's apologized. It was a highly interesting participation, for instance, in this legislature, in my opinion, that the parliamentary of the Arala, Michael of the Savage, had. He took part in the study committee and reflected on the rights of people and people. If it's a reading plan, it's also taken. You may agree or not, but he made a contribution. At least, when I re-read it again, it seems to me that he spoke deeply of people and people's rights about the crime of innocence, of course. I think it's today, as the others used to say, to apply Xabier Lete's song, at least to myself. Not for want of mind, but we say: "When you grow up you'll see how much silence costs. Go your way, and it will be better for you, above all things, like the wind." And I don't know how many days we're going to be quiet, or at least we don't have all that we're going to say or at least I won't show it. Because it's time for us to keep silence, among other things, because the courts want to talk. Because they need to talk. And in this case, too, opinion, the statements made by Judge Jaime Tapia, are extirpable? Why did he speak public? He talked about something. That's exactly the way the prosecutor works. Are they or are they notliable? Or one question. Now there's a negotiation process between the prosecutor and the defense. What initiation did it have to do with? Ba agian, egun batzuetan, edo denbora batan, isilik egon beharko dugu, edo isilik egotea tokatzen zaigu, epaia iritsi arte, éta hor ikusiko da zeinek zein ardura dituen. Eta gure osoko zuzenketak azaltzen duen bezala: "Consequently, he shows his respect for the judicial times and the rulings and sentences that may be handed down by the courts of justice. Signed by José Antonio Pastor and Joseba Egibar, on behalf of all parliamentarians. Then there's no doubt. Now you will let me make the proclamation of the presumption of innocence once more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. When you go back to your call, you go together Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Pastor, I have to remind you that we were. Look, coming here today with an amendment that talks about separation of powers is at least a laugh. A judge shall give judgment when the person concerned, the party concerned, requests a conviction. If the person concerned, who has been robbed, does not ask for pain, because the judge has more difficulty. It's all in the hands of the D.A.'s office. The prosecution, the interested party, in this case the Basque Government, cannot and must not sentence, but must ask for penalties, so that the judiciary can condemn it. Honestly, if that's your best argument, you better go back to the strategy of taking pictures with the defendants and saying you believe in their innocence, not their presumption of innocence, which is what we all believe in. In this House, on questions from my group, from the Basque left, the Lehendakari said that when there was a sentence they would act accordingly. We're close to getting to know her, though maybe with self-indictments negotiated with the prosecution. Is Mr Urkullu in a position to tell us what action his Government will take if this happens? Gentlemen of the PNV, do you think that a spokesman who hugs in Parliament with people who can be accused of being corrupt is in a position to represent them? Mr Egibar, are you aware that today this House, the Basque Parliament, in which you have been sitting there for almost 30 years, is debating whether to reprimand your statements and actions of these years on a corrupt plot? I understand your cautions, because who knows how close one has the long shadow of corruption. Today, the first full of the new political course, the first parliamentary defeat of the Government and a case of corruption that strikes the PNV. And it has been possible thanks to the opposition, thanks to the transaction with EH Bildu and thanks to the People's Party, which will support us in the points vote. It was fair to point out the shames of the Government, and particularly of the Basque Nationalist Party, in this case of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Basque Popular, Mr. Barrio mustn't interfere. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u53	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr Pastor was talking about the conclusions of the committee of inquiry, and it is true that they must be taken into account, and I have at least the conclusions read them and I have also read the position that the political parties had with regard to those conclusions. All we have to do is pull the hemerotheque to know that the Basque Nationalist Party called those conclusions the least of witch hunting. And today you are getting to know yourself, you are seeing how the judicial process is and that, well, those conclusions were not wrong. Therefore, on that occasion, and when it comes to respect, times, etc., I do not think that the PNV in this sense respected those conclusions and serious work that was done within the committee of inquiry. Mr. Pastor also said that it is a novelty that we somehow positively value the work of Ertzaintza. Don't get confused, we're not sectarians. We will sometimes positively appreciate the work of Ertzaintza and sometimes we will not like it so much. But we, whether to do justice and whether to clarify, in this case, cases of corruption is a matter, as if we have to go to the Pope and the Holy See! We don't have any kind of problem. Therefore, without further ado, it does not seem to me to be the striking or remarkable thing in the initiative and in the transactional that we have signed with the group of Elkarrekin Podemos. Yesterday we had the opportunity to listen also in this House to the voice of the Basque Competition Authority, Mrs Pilar Canedo, and to talk about the difficulty of detecting cases of corruption and that only one was detected. 10% of corruption cases. And why does this happen? As I said before, because there are not sufficient means, there are not enough measures for the detection of these cases of corruption and, therefore, that can be one of the reasons, and I stressed it in the first of the interventions, so that we do not know more cases of corruption today in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And that's why we and we constantly wonder if these cases of which we have knowledge, which seem to have even certain shades of being structural and some functions at least rejectable, because we don't know if they're just the tip of the iceberg, or we know and we can think that it's a tip of the iceberg, but we don't know if that iceberg how deep and big it is. And Mr. Egibar spoke of the presumption of innocence. I believe that yes, that all people assist us and all people have such a right of presumption of innocence. But it turns out that in the procedural phase in which we are at the trial of De Miguel, they are not negotiating their acquittal, what they are negotiating are their penalties, they are their penalties. So, somehow at that time when you're entering a penalty negotiation process, the guilt seems to be assumed. And when you grow up, you'll see how much it costs to keep quiet. I don't know if you weren't big then, Mr. Egibar, but I think you're making a lot of fuss about keeping your mouth shut right now, I think there were some statements where there weren't much to keep quiet even then. And we have a few comparisons and words which were not of any use at that moment, and the trial began, and the first inputs and decadents were there. And it is that we can read, in this intentionality to question the judicial process itself, and it is one of the points that is also reflected in the transactional amendment, that the PNV compared the case of Miguel with the excesses of justice with the environment of ETA, on the one hand, and that there were leftovers of excesses in Spanish justice. Or he also criticized the Basque Nationalist Party for the judge's use of copy-paste paragraphs from the commission of inquiry which I mentioned earlier and which took place in this Parliament. Or when Mr. Egibar also, at the gates of the autonomous elections, pardon, municipal and outlaws of 2015, spoke of the intentionality in the eruption of the case of Miguel before the elections, or when Ortuzar speaks of, and I quote textually: "I ill-treated the PNV with the case of Miguel. The president of the EBB, Andoni Ortuzar, charges against the actions of the Prosecutor's Office, which states that not all procedural guarantees have been given in the case." So, what is not good for me is to ask for silence at certain times from certain political formations, when one at other times has not wanted to keep that silence and has had a clear intention of trying to break into the judicial process itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u55	Well, briefly, because I think the positions are very clear. What we don't want to fall into is adanism. Bringing here a proposal as we can, giving the impression that this Parliament has never worked on these issues, which turns out that you have not met until you have come to this Parliament. Well, no. There's been a very serious year-and-a-half job here of a lot of people. And you – I reaffirm Mrs. Macazaga – were not. There was the aliquot part that could now correspond to Ezker Anitza in Elkarrekin Podemos, but not Elkarrekin Podemos. We're not gonna tell half the truths. And then, as far as Mr. Estarrona was concerned, as far as Ertzaintza is concerned, I reaffirm that I am happy. I would have liked it better if they had signed express support for Ertzaintza, as was indeed reflected in the original proposal. They didn't want to do that, they changed the wording a little bit, but in the end, everything will come, I guess. And on the other hand, I want to insist once again on highlighting the work that was done with that two-legislature committee of inquiry, which was serious and consistent and which, moreover, has helped the work of Justice. And now we are at a different time, that of the judges, who, by the way, are about to finish their work and I hope that they will do well. You referred to the PNV and Mr Egibar, and it is not my function or my style to defend or justify Mr Egibar, everyone who owns his words and his silences. But we must highlight what this Parliament, this House in which we are in, has done, which has certainly not been negligent, nor contemplative, nor with attitudes of looking elsewhere. He stood before when he understood that there was cause to do so, the Socialists first. And that's still our spirit. And now it is up to the judges to make the appropriate decisions and apply the penalties they deem most appropriate. And I think that's now the part that touches us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u57	I have mentioned that there have been judgments, and that no one has apologized, and this Parliament condemned the people politically. But when they are found in the courts, and are absolved, no one begs pardon, and the thoughts of Michael the Savage, whom I have spoken of, came to pass in his own time. And, too, the beginning is only to go to the hemerotera, and it will be observed that in its time the party was recognised by the irregular finances of PNV. That was the thesis, and that thesis is canceled, it is not. It's already proved, that's disenchanted, no irregular funding. Then there may be behaviours, and there will be no such or such kind of argument on this side that I do not know all, but that which is clean is also that, as far as it can be proved, they have not been contrary to the process of redemption. So, what's left? Trama. They say there's a lictive Trama and it's all based on it. And that is why I think the expressions which this magistrate has made are very conspicuous to me. Very conspicuous. And the second would be which one has called and for what purpose. And time will pass. I am free to make my observations, and to say what I have to say or to remain silent whenever I please. That's why I mentioned it, as we say in our repentance, if it's the time and time of the judges, well, let it be settled. We'll know the sentence, and then, if you like, we'll take a comparison to what the committee said and then judge what's left. It may be guessed at everything, but we already know that it is not invented in every case, why some of the pieces have been left apart from the Echiloespician case. Carmelo Barri, have you apologized to anyone, for instance, to the two-cornered ones? Did you apologize to Tellegio? Like what you said here before and in dictation? No, Mr.verdad? [[Berber]] Well, yes, but you tried them. Politicly, too, sentence him. Yes, politically. Then the future, but you don't apologize. And that's why I'm so calm and why things are in court, and if we all respect the job of the prosecutor and the part of the border... And, of course, I don't acknowledge the office of the prosecutor, for instance, in the Alsau case. Don't you? Is it here, because it's convenient? The edge here and not the Cabacas? Well, here we must make the concepts clearer, with which it is at all times. Well, I say: We shall know the time of the judges, and we shall know the sentence, when we have read the sentence, which was in progress eight years ago when the committee was completed, as the result of which we shall now know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-class correction of Podemos and EH Collectorn. If I get this straight, the first 1st and 2 points on one side and the third on the other... That's it. All right, that's it. Then we vote for 1 and 2 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u59	So there's one and two points to be accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u60	So the third point is not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munininka, members of the Popilative Groups, represented by the euscal area of agriculture foods, and the efficient contribution of the agenda to 2030th and to profitable developments. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the propos, Mme. l'Espéz de Octariz, it's yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillor, Mr Lehendakari – who had not seen you. We said in the question that from the Group of the European People's Party we raised Mrs Tapia, Counsellor for Economic Development and Infrastructure, concerning the Basque agri-food sector and the efficient contribution she makes both to the 2030 Agenda and to the 17 sustainable development goals contained in 169 goals, we said that the agri-food sector is essential to meeting the access to food of the population and is therefore a business sector with direct implications for the welfare and health of consumers. It also has implications for the work and living conditions of millions of people and on the resources of the planet, depending on how and how we use it in productions. When we talk about the agri-food sector, we are talking about both the productive part and the transformer and the distribution part. This, which is said very quickly, has implications for each, as I said, of the 17 sustainable development goals and for each of the 169 goals. When we talk about sustainability, we do it from a social, economic and environmental point of view. If we are also talking about the agri-food sector, we have to bear in mind, more and more, that the consumer, the customer, bases his purchase decision on issues of food health and safety. She told us and told us about some of the actions that are taking place in government action and agri-food activities in the Basque Autonomous Community. We, as a People's Group, know the actions that are being done and that contribute to the implementation of the SDGs and therefore, from the motion that we put forward, refer in point 1 to these contributions and we said that, in the context of the Strategic Plan for Food and Gastronomy of Euskadi 2017-2020, we believe that an analysis – we said "annex" – of the contribution of the agri-food sector to sustainable development objectives and that the challenges facing the agri-food sector of Euskadi should be specified and that the keys should be proposed to go beyond them and move forward. Also, from the People's Group, we understand the 2030 Agenda and the fulfilment of the sustainable development goals as an obligation, not as an option, and the administrations have the role and the obligation to transmit this to the different sectors involved and, where appropriate, it must be support, collaboration for the full achievement of these goals, and that is why we have based our point 2 and 3 of the motion. In addition, amendments have been made to this motion, both from the government group, from the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, and also from the Podemos group. After a pooling, I believe that we all want to achieve the same objective: that our agri-food sector should value the work it is doing and that it will develop in compliance with good practices, a much more environmentally friendly way to achieve the 2030 Agenda and also these sustainable development goals. We believe that it is important to value it and that it is gradually incorporated in its advertising, in its communication, that the customer, the consumer knows it and is added value for the products we put for sale. That is why in the compromise amendment that we have agreed between all – I, as a proposer, and the amending groups – as I said to you, we have incorporated point 1 of the People's Group of the motion, also two points from the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, and also another point that reflects the addition amendment put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos. What we have come to say is that, in addition, we must accompany all the regulations that are being prepared in this area with a memory of the expected impact on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda as set out in the Basque Country 2030 Agenda, which must also produce an annual report on the follow-up to the actions carried out within the framework of the food and food value chain linked to the objectives and targets set out in the 2030 Agenda. That collaborative work should be carried out together with the agri-food sector and, in particular, with the food cluster for the development of a sectoral guide to help companies in the different links in the agri-food chain design actions to contribute to sustainable development objectives, to improve the efficiency of their processes, to reduce resource and energy consumption, and to minimize the environmental impact on the environment, all taking into account the principles of circular economy. In addition, we believe that the 2030 Agenda, its objectives and the objectives that derive from it must be disseminated to the actors and companies of the three links in the agri-food sector – as I said to them, the primary one, the industrial one and the distribution one – in order to work towards overcoming the challenges at the local level in order to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals at the global level. And the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the other Basque institutions, within the framework of the Green Procurement and Public Procurement Programme of the Basque Country 2020, to give priority to the recruitment of those agents from the Basque agri-food sector who would demonstrate a greater contribution to the achievement of sustainable development objectives in their activities within and outside the Basque Country. In short, we have reached this agreement that we believe it is to identify those actions that we are already doing, how we are meeting these objectives and where we need to focus our efforts to achieve the objectives set out in the 2030 Agenda. And since we have reached this great consensus among all I have nothing more to say. I end by thanking the groups for the dedication they have had to reach this compromise amendment, which seems important to us, and, well, each one of us, surely, we have left a few things in the tinter, but I think we will have the opportunity to continue to talk about these issues, to assess how we are progressing and to work on the 2030 Agenda, the objectives of sustainable development being part of agricultural activity, of the activity of the primary sector, agri-food, in production, in industry, in processing and in distribution. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u62	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u63	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. We are what we eat, and if we are what we eat, we could say that Euskadi is an unsustainable society, that wastes water and energy, that contributes to climate change. If we are what we eat, Euskadi is a society that promotes poverty, poverty, inequality and job insecurity in other countries. And if we are what we eat, we could say that Euskadi razes the seas, destroys forests and deserts farmland. But I don't think Euskadi is like that, I honestly don't. Our food system is, however, the food system on which civilized societies, modern societies, and Euskadi are based, among them, is an unjust, unsustainable and unsustainable food system. It's just: must it be so, and not? I don't think so. It's up to us to decide which nutrient system we want. The nutrients grow within the circle, but we cultivate them ourselves, and determine by ourselves how and where we seek to cultivate our nutrients, how we seek to preserve our natural system and the conditions of labour. And that's our challenge, to decide which food system we want, and that's the sovereignty of food. That is our challenge, to decide which food system we want and that is food sovereignty, to decide whether we want our food system to be fair or unfair, sustainable or unsustainable, solidarity or solidarity. And by deciding what kind of food system we want, we will decide what kind of society we want to build as well. And here I have to say that Euskadi has decided to bet on sustainable development. Not only has it decided to bet on sustainable development, but it has written it down on the Basque 2030 agenda for the development of the UN's sustainable development goals. Therefore, what we have to do is analyze how our system is working today and how the different agents that are integrated into the Basque Food and Gastronomy Plan 2017-2020 behave. Because if we really promote sustainable development, if as a society we are against poverty, we are against hunger, for peace, justice, equality, well-being, protection of the environment, responsible economic development, then we need to know how our food system is working. And it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be easy to determine what the impacts of our food system are. It is not going to be, because, among other things, 90% of the food in Euskadi is imported and yet the Basque Gastronomy and Food Plan refers to what we produce here, what we produce here, 10%. However, there is no news from the other 90%. The Basque Internationalization Plan makes no reference to this; it is aimed at selling more abroad, to export, but does not worry about what we import. The External Action Plan seeks to sell our image, but does not worry about what our companies do abroad. The Basque Agenda, which I have already mentioned, for Sustainable Development is focused on the development of the objectives in Euskadi. And even the Fourth Development Cooperation Plan does not worry about how we act abroad to bring the food we need. So it's not going to be easy, but we'll have to consider how bad our food is with the system. Tenemos que conocerlos para luego poder actuatur. Once we meet them, start the initiative. Get to know her, then change her condition. To know, for example, why our food system is unsustainable; why food takes 80% of the planet's drinking water; why a burger needs 2,500 litres of water to be produced; why a tomato needs 80 litres, and why those 80 litres of water that a tomato needs are not the same when it is produced here in Euskadi, than when it is produced in Almeria; why kilometre food causes a quarter of climate change. In 1992 the German institute Wuppertal analyzed how many kilometers had gone through the ingredients of a strawberry yogurt: 1,300 kilometers. Strawberry yogurt, 1,300 kilometers! Every day in Spain 3,500 live pigs are exported and 3,000 live pigs are imported. And I'm just talking about the pig species. But also, our system is unfair. And I'm going to put just three examples to illustrate it, three foods we usually eat: salmon, bananas and chicken. Our farms sometimes have difficulty selling fish that fish in the Cantabrian and yet salmon is a daily food. We bring it from many places, for example from Chile. Chile, the region that produces the most salmon, before producing salmon was the sixth richest; right now it is the second poorest: it accumulates 22% of the poverty in its population. Bananas are one of the bloodiest crops in existence, in particular bananas, and there is no point in talking about banana republics. Two companies have more than half the world's banana business. One of them, Chiquita, is in the archives of the U.S. secret services for having financed the Colombian paramilitaries. – more than 11,000 dead behind their backs – but throughout Central America banana is produced, and throughout Central America the wages of banana producers are not even 1% of the final price of bananas. Days 10 to 12 hours a day; women earning between three and four times less; women having to sleep with supervisors in order to keep the job. That is the daily reality of banana cultivation, not the banana of the Canary Islands. But we could also talk about the chicken, our Basque homemade chicken that has to compete with the industrial chicken. In Spain, industrial chicken is produced by just 10 business groups, one of which has 25% of the whole chicken business in Spain. Nutreco owns that group, the SADA group. Nutreco is a Dutch society. It is Nutreco's genetic variety of chicks they have on the farms; it is Nutreco's feed; it is Nutreco's veterinarians and veterinarians; Nutreco controls the fattening farms, and Nutreco's slaughterhouses and cutting rooms. I forgot to say that Nutreco, despite being a Dutch company, comes from the British company British Petroleum. This is the reality of our food, this is the reality of our food system, so we need to know to be able to act. And knowledge is of no use if it is not to change the state, and therefore to begin to change the system of correction. Through what? By public purchase, by means of public purchase, to encourage public purchase, to encourage public purchase, to contribute a decent consumption, ecological consumption, permanent consumption, and reto consumption, consists in the sovereignty of nourishment, we must reward and protect the reto companies. There is no other one left, and that is why in our addiction amendment we ask: we need to activate, we need to reactivate green public procurement as a tractor model of a new way of feeding ourselves and we need it to boost and support companies that are doing it best. If we really believe in sustainable development, if we really believe that another world is possible, let's get started.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u65	President, ladies and gentlemen. Since today's sitting of Parliament, 40,000 people have been born in the world and 5,000 have died of hunger. Mrs Ocariz said that the 2030 Agenda is an agenda of compulsory compliance, I would add that in the medium and long term it is the only solution to save the planet, because the prospects, today we talk about a sector, or we focus more on a sector, but the prospects of humanity, not to remedy and not to follow the fulfillment of the 2030 Agenda, wish for a gradual self-destruction of the planet and of everything it houses. Therefore, we are dealing with a matter of maximum topicality, but also of maximum responsibility and, in this regard, I believe that the initiative put forward by Mrs Ocariz is an initiative which should not only be observed, but also be pointed out as a warning, not only of this objective, but of the 17 objectives of that 2030 Agenda, because this Parliament will not be working at all on how many more initiatives and how many more pronouncements and decisions it takes regarding the achievement of those objectives of the 2030 Agenda. It is clear that politics has a part of debate – and this is very good –, it has a part of implementation, okay, like today's – and it is also very good – and it has a part – which is magnificent – which is the implementation of those agreements, of those policies and which, moreover, are the central element of politics. Because Parliament's pronouncements would be of no use if budgetary measures were not then taken so that they could be implemented politically. A few months ago we had an opportunity for a delegation from this Parliament to be in the UN and there we exchanged views with many countries and with many organizations that were also talking about these issues, although at that time there was more talk about the empowerment of women and the attention to rural women. And when we exchanged impressions between different delegations, I always said that part of their objectives were already envisaged in the future of their countries' political actions, I asked them how much is in the budgets? Because I think that's where you have to persevere. And I believe that this is where budgetary policy also becomes the fundamental and decisive tool of political action and that, therefore, in the coming months we must also have attention to the fact that this is the case, that budgetary policies accompany the political pronouncements and the major objectives of politics, and that this is a task, that like the political pronouncements, it is a collective one, that it is the whole of the political forces of this House, because otherwise it would not be possible. Parliament's pronouncement today on a compromise proposal from all groups is a reasonable pronouncement, it is a pronouncement to empower companies to work on efficiency and to work on the sustainability of the natural materials that are finite, of water, of the generation of energy, of the quality of food. That they also try to get the most out of it, that they fulfil the fundamental objectives of food, that they are not to produce great fortunes and riches through greed to the great chains of food, but to sustain the population knowing that food is also a decisive element for health and, therefore, also for the space of life in which we are in this world. It is proposed in this compromise amendment that there be inter-group action which also relates policy, Parliament, the Government, to the sectors concerned in the field of food and, therefore, there will be an interaction which is absolutely decisive. This does not just come out of the policy, but comes out of the way if there is broad collaboration and if those sectors that produce food are directly involved and have to monitor for their quality, for their sustainability, in the end, for all the things that have already been said here. There is also a dissemination and follow-up task; dissemination of objectives, follow-up on results. Finally, I believe that the compromise amendment is in keeping with the interest which the proposer presented when she took the initiative and which brings this Parliament to a total commitment, so that those 2030 objectives can gradually be achieved, knowing that in the assessments being made, not so much in Euskadi, but in general at the moment the countries are still far from the commitments we have made in Europe, except the Scandinavian countries, we are all far from being on the right track to meet the objectives. We must therefore speed up, we must speed up, and in this direction, because this initiative also seeks, by means of this alert and by means of the compromise, to place on the political agenda of each day and of this Parliament on its scale, to the extent that it has its powers, that we reach it. Therefore, nothing more to point out. I think it is a good idea that in the face of the objectives that homogenize society as a whole, to say that this is a problem of the whole citizenry, because we can make unitary expressions like today's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u66	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u67	Yes, Mr. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all. During the whole meeting in April we argued about 2030 and about this tribal about the series of permanent boundaries in the world as well as in the Euscadian world. It has been a long way in our country, and I think I have made it clear that our society and our institutions, fortunately, will not now begin with patience. It's been a long, productive journey. The reflection of that, I would mention that this year, High-level Army Forum, New York, is the chance of introducing his Balsque Country Age 2030. But it's true that we're in a new stage, and in this stage also, it's taken from Euskka since the first 2030th of the Agenda. A lot of teams are spreading around everywhere. For instance, and to mention only one, last Monday, we had the opportunity of taking part in the Alian of Artium. It was there that we saw the forces which the corporations, the institutions, the sports-worlds, and the society itself were willing to contribute to their specific areas. It may be a simple contribution sometimes, but it is indispensable to challenge of permanence. We mentioned in April that the challenge is not a bad one: the habits, the habits, the ways of acting, the way of living, the consumption, we must rethink everything. Mrs López de Ocariz brings us today to the debate on the 2030 Agenda on the agricultural and food sector. And your proposal is welcome. All sectors must be involved in achieving these 17 objectives. Of course, agri-food, a sector in which the Government is also doing an interesting job integrating sustainability policies. There are, to quote some, the Healthy Food Plan, or the Strategic Food and Gastronomy Plan of Euskadi 2017-2020. The companies of the world are coming together in a global pact, sponsored by the United Nations, which now reaches around 20,000 companies worldwide, of which more than 100 are Basques. Some of them also belong to the agri-food sector, within these more than 100 affiliated or signatory Basque companies. And it seems pertinent to us that, in addition to those United Nations-led partnerships, we should also establish partnerships and agreements between the industries here, between the actors in each sector, to shape the pieces that help us build sustainability. On Monday, in Artium's presentation, they told us about knitting. I like the image of building, building a great mechanic, in which each piece must be perfect, perfectly designed, with its functions perfectly narrowed, but which is also able to assemble with the rest of the pieces to build a solid, stable and durable structure. The United Nations has marked us with the skeleton, the plans of the structure, but it is up to each of us and ourselves to work the pieces that are within our reach, in order to contribute to that collective construction. Let's not wait for recipes, there are no recipes. We have to make our way on the way. We usually say that to go fast you have to go alone, but to go far you have to go accompanied. That is why we appreciate today the unanimity that we are going to have in this initiative. In the compromise that we will adopt today, as I say unanimously, we focus on the agri-food sector and on the measurement, evaluation, monitoring and transparency of its policies and actions. And we believe that the initiative is valid and timely. Even better, once improved with the contributions of the groups, but above all we believe that what really matters is the agreement. The ability to send a clear message of concern for the future of our species and show our determination, that of all, to put everything in our hands, to carry out this necessary revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. A group that hasn't run any corrections, collect EH. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u69	Yes, good noon to all. Well, in his time, when Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz introduced this motive, we decided not to correct it, as we told her, because we agreed with the content, and we agreed in the time of our union around ODS for the same reason, because we think it's time to do practical things, because it's time to start starting from macro ends to practical purposes, or to go down to concrete enterprises. And I mean to say we're going to go through the practice, and it's true that today we're concentrated on food, agriculture, blackjack, all over this sector, but let me mention something about what these goals are supposed to be, not a contradiction, but what I've been thinking today. We're talking about the purpose of development, we're going to end the plenoa today, but we're beginning to report that another woman has been murdered in the Basque Country. We end up talking about development, but we're still talking about the attacks of human rights with terrible strides. Hence it is time to speak of targets and macro targets, and of those headlines which we agree to, to set them up in concrete enterprises and to begin the progress and to begin the progress of certain modifications. It's said we'd need three planets if we went on with the current production and consumption, and we don't have those three planets, we have what we have, and if we went on in our own direction, we'd drain it, we'd empty it, and we wouldn't leave anything good for future generations. So obviously we're talking about a strategic sector with this proposal today. It's very important that they appreciate the contribution they make in the social and economic area. And it is also very important that we should work with them, and so it was stated in the first proposal that we needed a specific plan in conjunction with them. For, we can reflect, we can talk of the collisions around the patterns, and we must talk about it, and we must talk about it, we have brought here several subjects, for a long discussion, which I think would have been given, but with those who are working, we must do this with those who are working on the ground, the terrhoea, the people who are working in the place. And we've talked about nutritious food, and we've got plenty to do there, what we're getting and what we're getting on our plates, and we've talked about it in our plates or our dining rooms, we've also talked about it, we've got to figure out what we're wearing. We are therefore ready to continue to defend, from theory to practice, to concrete initiatives, specific propositions that can be applied, and we see them well. And it's time to move from that austere development to putting life in the center, putting people in the center, putting strategic sectors in the center and moving towards a sustainable planet for all and for all. We can't continue politics, we must transform our policies, otherwise a second and third planet won't be given us. Lagun handi batek pastu zedan esaldi batekin loved nahi nuke. Benedettirena da, éta esaten du: "Just imagine how precious it can be to take risks and make everything work." It is high time we took a risk, changed the course of our policies and began to sustain the lives of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Does anyone want to answer the answers round? [[Berber]] Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque populars, the Basque Socialists, the half-correction signed by the Podemos and Eukobertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-09-27.u71	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Next, I shall read two institutions of expression: In the 100th anniversary of the production of Eugégés, the institutional expression of the Parliament is: "It's a hundred years since Euscalia was founded. An entire century of Academy for the Eucature, and its investigation, as well as its food. "A hundred years ago, the Institutions of the Representatives of the Basque People saw that an institution was necessary which would prepare the way to the rescue and lead it straight along the road. This organization was to be completed by the experts. The Academy would examine the differences of the cradle, fill up the gaps, establish the form and meaning of words, and set up a single form and meaning, without omitting any one of the eucalyptics, use them in addition to one another, and finally set up what would be the language pure, irreproachable, and useful to all sorts of knowledge. Thus it was imagined that the Araba, Bizkai, Gipure, and the institutional representative of Navarre, had produced an academy for the whole district of Euscha. "It's been 50 years since Euscalidia set up the meeting at Aran. This assembly is often taken as the starting-point of the eucalyptus. During the creation of a Basque alliance, the project, the efforts, and the essays which had begun earlier, had been particularly significant in the origin of the combination of the Noona Councilr, which had been made in 1964, but the House of Arrants had given him a strong and important rise to the trial. "In the course of sixty years of euscal euphoria, the state of the Euscal Autonomia Erria appointed an officer of counseling institutions for the purpose of eucalyptus. As before, the institutional representatives of the people of the same period proposed and the Basques accepted on the guard of our natural language and official eupacy of Euscalia. The chain was not then interrupted, and here we wish to show clearly that the chain was not interrupted, not only by the institutional representative of the law to-day, but by the hundredth anniversary of Euscalidia, in order that he might continue to do his work with moderation and wisdom, as his motto explains: I went on and on. "The present state of the war cannot be understood without the work of the Academy of Euca. "On this occasion, in order to extend the confession that this work of Euscalidia is worthy of, this evening at the Academy of eucalyptus to-day and here, the Basque Parliament wants to consider the work of Euscalimia. "The origin of the legislative united to the eucaur in the history of the eucaia, and also of the importance of the normalization of the eucalyptus, has been an indispensable instrument for the support of certain actions of social life. and confirms the value of all social usages, which renders the union of the union in the normalization of language indispensable. "In the standardization of the Eus Act, the pioneer of the Basque Act, the person, the society, and, above all, the whole academic and historical course of the Euscaldi, acknowledges and thanks him, and, at this moment, the work and contribution of the union of language in particular. "The U.S. Actor of the Eus joins the ministration of the Euscaldi and invites every Basque population to join in the performances of this hundred years of Euscalidia." "The intergroup supporting the peace process in Colombia welcomes the release of six people by the ELN and trusts the prompt resumption of dialogues with the Government. "As the UN has done, and taking its words, from the intergroup supporting the peace process in Colombia we welcome the release of the six people who were in the hands of the ELN, and we look forward to an early resumption of dialogue between this armed group and the Government, as these will allow a better life for Colombians and Colombians who are in territories affected by violence. "We also hope that at some point in the dialogues agreement will be reached on a ceasefire, that we are sure it will prevent unnecessary deaths and protect the lives of thousands of people. We also congratulate the Humanitarian Commission on its work in the liberation of these six people. "In turn, we recall that international humanitarian law prohibits hostage-taking. Taking hostages causes deep pain and causes difficult consequences to heal, both in persons deprived of their liberty and in their families and in society. "Finally, we welcome the will shown by the President of the Spanish Government, Pedro Sánchez, to accompany this peace process; we call on the various international bodies involved so far to continue to promote both the agreements and the steps towards implementation; and we also show our full readiness for this work." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four.
