ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I would like to say, that the first point is left for another point, so we will go to the second point: "The legal proposition made by the parliamentary team, in order to create an office against good means and corruption. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we'll go straight to the discussion. There's a side shift, the other side shift. In addition to EHG, someone else wants to be a part of it? No. So the word is yours, Mrs. Ugarte, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u1	It's the last plone this year. And we will try, as far as I am concerned, not to be tedious, and, well, to support the climate which is usual during the last few days. However, my subject is not easy, it is not easy, it is a subject that opens many wounds, and affects us all in a perfect and direct manner. And I am speaking of the good practices of corruption and of public administration. de Miguel's case was over yesterday, and now we must see what the sentence is, but we who have continued a judgment of this size see how easy and how easy it is that mistakes or mistakes can be done by so much impunity, or that may be a corruption. The sentence will still be seen. I'm not getting ahead of anything. But at least there's been mistakes, and there's been errors, and there's been an unsuited administration, and it's obvious there's been an inadequate management. And besides, because of the temptations he's had and the way it's spread, we see we're in front of a big problem. We are very used to it, when we look down into Spain, when we look down from Ebro to see the cases of corruption: black Well, here's the data. We have the mayors who have been mayors, even the mayors, who have been punished for prevarication, or for the unjust use of the public funds, or those who are in the courts. If we do the map of corruption in the three provinces of EAE, we may perhaps see that we are better off than we are below Ebro, but that we are by no means in the presence of a healthy, serious, and dignified public administration. And why aren't we? Well, because what I've said is a complete immunity, because there is no mechanism in the investigation, we have not a real adequate police officer prepared to face the improper use of the public money in a special way; we have not a prosecution, with a potent equipment, capable of resisting this challenge; we have not a public power which has enough control mechanism over itself; we have not, in some measure, a mechanism to protect the accusers. So, the rates are big. Cases are covered and we can say that we arrive in a very small number of cases of what happens. And I don't say this. The Public Prosecutor says, that in his report of 2018, when he has the memory of the act of 2017, there have been very few cases in 2017, there have been more judicial procedures which have been carried on in advance of the crime against the public administration, owing to the changes made in the Code of 2015, but these generally do not operate directly on cases of corruption, but on other kinds of crimes: to attack the public authority, and so on. The prosecution itself says that it is difficult for individuals, individuals, individuals, and individuals to enter into the charges of this kind, and the reason, which is normal, and which we can all conclude, is personal and professional. That is to say, to-day, to be able to accuse a corruption, it must be very brave, very bold, and perhaps even theoretical. For the consequences, the consequences that follow, are but to be seen. And in the case of De Miguel, we have a very clear example, a person who has been accused, has been a businessman, and there is nothing more to be seen of the way of insulting and threatening against this person. So, as a result of the mechanism today, it's very difficult for a individual to deal with when he detects a backup case. What can they say of the cases of the civil servants, how can they say that their superiors has prevaricated them? How can they say he manipulated a report? How can they say that they have committed a direct appeal, by jumping all the legal guarantees of the Public Contractal Law? It's very difficult. It's very difficult. So there's a whole training, legal, police, attorney, and so on, that it's really hard to reveal the corruption, which makes it difficult to pursue and to punish that corruption, because even in this report the prosecutor says that there are few cases that come to the charges, and still less to a verbal trial, that is, many of them, and many of them, close in the course of the statement. And when they shut themselves up in the course of the statement, the reasons are principally two: one, difficulty, and that is what we're talking about, there's a lot of trouble to investigate, the police aren't qualified to carry on these investigations in so many cases, and that's all there is to be seen, police reports, UCO's Civil Guard reports, and many journals of the Bordering Unit, say that they're not enabled, they say they're not enabled to carry on certain research, because they don't have technical knowledge and professional knowledge. This is one, and the second is want of will to inquire, which may be the second principal reason, in order to avoid many of these procedures. So that we come to a verbal judgment, and that there is a punishment, is almost a miracle in this land of EAE. What does that mean? Well, I think it's what he's asking for, to fine up these contrivances, to force them, to make the procedures of its own accord, demands that he put more public resources in the investigation, and require more work in prevention. And it is true that in this drawing-room and such such a drawing-rooms, the corruption is not the subject of these latitudes, but the last Deutobarometers of the social action is that the community has no confidence in the Spanish institutions, but that 41% of the community expresses the uneasiness of the corruption which may be present in the institutions of this country. We are, therefore, not in a oasis or in that oasis, as I have mentioned, to reach or attain this oasis, and here to be transparent and stable public institutions, and to maintain a society where it is a zero toleration, it is absolutely necessary that some contrivances should be put into it. And as we might make another proposition, and say this, the other, the other, in some measure, to throw stones at the other, and to share in a contest which is the most transparent. But it does not seem effective to us, and we must first look forward to this subject, and look at its efficiency. That is to say, we need effective contrivances to end the corruption in the Euskal institutions, and that's where this proposition comes from. The object of this proposition is to open a dispute in the next few months on this frame and outside of it, to come once for a while to the question of the corruption, and to give precise contrivances by a law. We have been inspired in the text, which you would have seen in the 7/2018 Law, we have almost repeated in words the law of Navarre, because it seems to us to be a very profitable law, because it seems to us that it is a well-contested law, and that it is politically a well-predicted law. And he has a virtuality, and it is said that in Navarre there is not a single vote against him in Navarre, but with the Absence of UUPN and Pogula, and with the four sects which maintain the Government, and with the protection of the Social Party of Navarre, this law seems to have been made by a law which has obtained a vast political sect in Navarre, namely, EAE EAE, where we have prophesied and tried not to change too much. Some people might think of creating another office, because it's clairvoyant, because what this law finally proposes is to create an office against good practice and corruption. It may be proposed that the production of an office is a new settlement, that it is necessary to spend more than the public administration, and that it is sufficient for our present contrivances; that we have a Tribunal de Centas, and we have other contrivances besides common courts, police, and prosecutors, and that we have enough to prevent the corruption. I have remarked, in my opinion, that it is not enough, we see that it is not enough, that we, the Attorney General of the EAE, say the same to him, say the police, that the same is the case with the different police, and the judges say so, and the case is evident that necessity is more. It is true that even in Navarro this dispute was given, and they spoke to the several persons in the Jewish region of Navarre, who are involved in the University of Navarre, and that a specific organ was to be produced, perfectly independent, and perfectly specialised, in the matter of good corruption and practice, and not in other anbitos. For it is true, that the Court of Account does some kind of check, that he makes a prosecution, but that this prosecution is confined to countless crimes, or that the practice which may be opposed to competition in competition of competition is determined to collapse. He has no other attributes. So he doesn't fulfill what we need here. The interrogation of rights contains, may, it may, and may inform, but it is absolutely involuntary, because the special mechanism of art does not possess it to investigate the area of corruption. Why the courts aren't enough? For sometimes the courts of justice investigate crimes, they study things that may be criminal, but not in the whole of corruption and improper practice. We all know that it is the last technique to use the penal law, or that it is the latest tool, but before that there are administrative measures, administrative procedures of sanction, other contrivances may be necessary, and those which today have no organs to reach it. It is possible to make perfectly irregular practices, but not to be unlawful, not to be unlawful, not to be unlawful, or not to be sufficient to receive a penal punishment. But that doesn't mean that these practices are adequate and that we have to accept them, and that we have to be tolerant of these practices. It appears, therefore, to us that it is necessary to create an office, and that we have tried to defend it by this law, something else must arise beyond the present mechanism. Evidente, this office must be independent, and independent, and what is proposed in this law is that the principal director who will be elected is that he who has a person independent and a great parlamentary of consensus. That is to say, to accept by majority, in order not to be able to effect a person by political influence, or to have political or organic dependence. And what we're planning is also a completely professionalized team, creating a team that would be chosen through a public appeal which would be completely independent, self-nonomous, and which will have the protection of the law to bring its work to the end. We're planning an effective office, and I think this is important too. What mission will this office have, the result of this law? One, preventive, indispensable. In this society, there is no question of corruption enough to be cultivated. What uses are adequate, what practices are inadequate, and not enough to be cultivated. And they're accepted. How many nominations are not scandalous? Nepotism, how many things there are, which may not be penalally, but reproche. Some, which would end with an amendment or advice, and others which ought to end directly with administrative regulations. And there's a lot of examples we know. I think this is an indispensable job, making a prevention. That is to say, to act, this office must act in advance, and it must be done beforehand, because we cannot forget that after the mechanism which are now present are once committed to crime or once irregularity, when once it is damaged, those contrivances are introduced into action. And what we have to do is before these contrivances. And I think one of the most important offices of this office will be that of prevention. Second, detection and investigation. We must detect what activities are contrary to the indulgence of all, which protect the interests and interests of the public administration, the interests of the parties, or the interests of the third party. They must be detected. And they must be detected, they must be initiated, and the reports must be made, that some of the proceedings may be put to work, and that they deserve an administrative sanction to be seen, which is a crime, and which ought to be directed to the tribunals, or to see what contrivances will be proposed. And everyone will be forced to collect the work that this office does: companies, political parties, persons, public offices, all of them will be obliged to do so, and I think it's very important to give that power to this office in order to be really effective, and to have everyone to co-operate in this office. He will also be punished for this lack of collaboration, and I believe this also is a very interesting and important element. I mean, it's not just one thing you can leave without answering. Everything in the world will be Forced to co-operate with the activities of this office, otherwise it will be punished with the nine thousand mults up to them, and I believe that this is very significant, and that the law must also receive this maxim as well. And then, finally, there's something very important: The prosecutor endeavors to maintain the anonymima of the accusers, because it is necessary that these accusers should, in many cases, have a privacy, and protect them, to lead them to the last extremity. But they often get awkward and that's how it is. And one of the principal functions of this office is the protection of informers. The accuser will be perfectly immune when an accusation enters, he will have a complete anonymite, and will be assured that this informer will have no personal consequences, and no professional consequences to carry on a corruption. So I think, considering all these elements, we are in the presence of a good law-he has a feeling of joy to come into consideration. I think the villagers are waiting for us to take steps in this direction. The people must also see that political parties, political authorities, are ready to end this work, and that we will set mechanism in order to fight hard. In the first place, the political will is first required, secondly, a proper law, and in the third place a more suitable office, efficient, potent, and perfectly independent, and wholly independent of its activity, which will have a legal and political protection and full support to begin with its complete independence. And we just wait for your reports.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Since there's no counter shift, I'll call the vote. [[Words]] Now that the discussion is over, we will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not, so we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting are 72 votes, 73; the supporters, 65; the opponents are 0, 0; 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u3	So he's taken care of. After that, we'll go to a vote, and if Euscala is represented by the Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The People's Group has abstained in this vote and I will try briefly to give them the reasons why that was the meaning of our vote. We obviously share, as the proposer has rightly said, that corruption is one of the major concerns of citizens throughout the State and in this autonomous community exactly the same, and in this House more, because in recent times – and today we will continue with these matters – corruption cases are being judged that splatter all political formations and all institutions. Action must therefore be taken, each as it sees fit. The doctrine tells us that we have two options, the judicial route, toughen the penalties, give more means to judges, prosecutors, the judicial police, tax inspectors; and, on the other hand, the creation of offices such as the one proposed today in this proposed law of the EH Bildu group. We are more in favour of giving more means to the judges and courts, strengthening their independence, defending their independence and letting them do their job, not because we are against initiatives such as this and of offices such as that which Mrs Ugarte proposes to us today, but because we trust, from experience, that the result will be positive. These offices already operate in other autonomous communities, in other places, the truth is that recently, and neither do we see that they have produced great results. And thinking about the closest cases of corruption we have, I honestly don't see how they could help to avoid such unpleasant and detestable situations for all of us, which splatter the entire political sphere and all of the institutions, what role these offices could have, I really don't see it, I don't trust it, I think it's more important to give great means to prosecutors, to create a specific anti-corruption prosecutor's office for our institutions, to give economic means to the inspection of finances, to the judicial police and to defend more the independence of the judges and the courts who are the ones who have to punish these behaviors, because in reality corruption, the important thing, is that they are criminal types already in force and known to all. Therefore, against the struggle of these behaviors, these offices I sincerely believe are not worth much. And then the experience that leads us to think, that in fact, you have called it Mrs Ugarte's chiringuito, one more chiringuito, one more office than on paper can have very important functions, very interesting, then the implementation of it can lead us to be a completely useless office. Other institutions have also been created and defended by this parliamentarian, with an important power of investigation and execution, such as the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which exercises its functions and at the head of it we place a person who is responsible for the second largest institution in the Basque Country, which is the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia. And this person who has been at the head of this institution during several legislatures and in other positions of political responsibility, is the one who presides over the body that has to investigate its role, that of the Bizkaia Foral Diputation and that of, among others, all the municipalities of the historical territory of Bizkaia, because he would have to abstain from all, because he has had absolutely relations with all. I mean, if we create an office of this kind and we put a person who then has personal interests in the matter, I really think we do a weak favor to the institution, which is what happened in the Basque Court of Public Accounts and which is what I understand could happen in offices like these, even though the choice of those people, of those responsible for this institution in which, of course, we offer ourselves to work with you, so that those responsible people, however much they are elected by this House, in the end we can find situations like the one I have already mentioned to you. And honestly, honestly, I think this office is short for big corruption cases, it has nothing to do with it. I believe that it is much more important to provide the means and defend the independence of prosecutors, judges and courts and to provide financial and material resources to the judicial police and the tax inspectors who also cooperate in these matters. This is precisely why my group has abstained, however, of course, we already offer the possibility of working from this point on, so that it is possible to improve the text which, for what has been seen in the vote, is going to work in this House once the next 2019 course begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u6	Gracias president. Well, the Socialist Group is in favour of this Parliament appreciating the establishment of a good practice and anti-corruption office, and it is for a number of reasons. Because we do so in line with what the Socialist Party is promoting to the rest of Spain and in fact this proposal literally gathers proposals already carried out in other communities. And we do so in line with the initiatives we have taken from the Basque Government, when we had the opportunity to lead it, which have been maintained to date, and which have put us at the forefront of transparency and which have led to administrative practices that have proved effective in addressing practices that could lead to corruption and favouritism. And this does not seem to us to be a minor issue, because it is not new the impulse of a demanding regulation on the control of public activity, even less so when it is done almost a bit of what they have been doing neighbouring communities, in this case the one in Navarre, as we had the opportunity to comment before yesterday in the Committee on Education, before a representative of the Parliament in Navarre who explained in detail the characteristics of the Navarra agency. We find it relevant in this debate to acknowledge the path that was also opened up in Euskadi, which is taxable and evaluable. An assessment of what has worked and what has not worked in other communities, which should not be alien to the work ahead of this law that is before us, and in which we may miss that previous assessment. We are therefore in favour of the processing of this law by its intentions, although in its definition it seems to us to be moving away from the more ambitious project that I believe we are already working on the transparency law. A law which, by the way, I would like to recall, has been rejected, as we have proposed, the creation of a specific agency, which, as it is known in other communities, has not been the most effective instrument in achieving what is proposed here. And it's not a position we have now. When we were asked in the previous legislature for the creation of a specific agency for the monitoring of administrative activities, we said and this is how we are working on the presentation of the transparency law, which was more interesting if these functions were incorporated into the Data Protection Agency. The debate that Bildu proposes to us and to which we agree, of course, requires us to reflect among all of us on whether we need a supervisory body for each thing or whether it is preferable that the functions that we are faced with here be redistributed for reasons of efficiency and effectiveness between entities already existing with the same work, such as the Court of Auditors, the Ararteko, the different public ethics commissions existing in different institutions and the Office itself. The Socialist Group therefore understands that the proposal that follows its course today is in addition to those that we have already promoted other groups, since the action of the Government in the socialist case, as well as from which we have promoted the parliamentary groups that we support the current executive. The task we have now is to marry the different initiatives into a model that is truly effective, which is the fundamental objective I understand of the initiative, effective for the purpose that is said to be pursued.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. Macazaga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u8	Good morning. Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, very briefly I will go on to explain why my group supports this initiative, and it is that we believe that Basque society has become aware in recent years of the serious problem of corruption and patronage in Basque. It is clear to what extent corruption violates people's most basic rights, we have seen it in the case of recently doped OPEs in Osakidetza and is incompatible with the foundation of democracy. It also results in a loss of confidence in the institutions and in those who lead them. Political will is needed, strong and constant to fight corruption at all levels. It is therefore necessary to adopt the international conventions that seek to combat it, and it is also necessary to update existing legislation to introduce new mechanisms for the control and suppression of illicit activities. International law has numerous legal instruments aimed at combating corruption, from those adopted by the United Nations Convention against Corruption to framework decisions and regulations issued by the Council of Europe in this regard. Transparency International has already proposed a number of major challenges to be faced and still pending today: the reduction of free designation fees, the improvement of legislation and the regulation of lobbies Although there is no doubt that there is a need to improve regulation and tighten it, it cannot be forgotten that corruption is born and always grows outside the law, either outside it, or through partial or interested application of its content. It is precisely for this reason that the control of public and private activity must be more independent, demanding and subject to transparency criteria, which is key to combating this problem. To this must be combined the need for a more agile judicial system that does not turn corruption trials into an eternal race, or an Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office with sufficient means. We also believe that citizen participation is one of the most effective means of exposing and combating political corruption, and as such should be protected and promoted by the public authorities; see as an example the three persons who report leaks from the Osakidetza examinations. For our part, nothing more. We will contribute to improving this initiative, which in some respects we find scarce, but first of all we will try to ensure that the creation of this tool does not constitute an excuse for not continuing to work on mechanisms that attack clientelism or corruption in general and that do not end up becoming an instrument lacking activity or, ultimately, as you have said, a chiringuito, as has happened in other communities. Because what is needed is for accountability and audit, monitoring, control and justice structures to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u10	Thank you, chief of the table, good day, Congressmen, Mr. President, chief officers, good morning to all. The eubertist has agreed to take this view of the legal proposition, because the initiative in creating an office against the proper practices and corruption deserves a deep and earnest discussion, by the contribution and reflection of the groups in this attic. We say yes to the debate, we say yes to the thought. We agree with several things which are said in the words of the law-produce, as well as with those who change the modes of activity and management, and condition the characters of society. Nor can we deny that the changes which have been made in the society and the company in the world or in the administration are subject to a new political and administrative paradigm. We all agree. The ends and ends of this proposition are extremely laudable, because the conduct of the workmen and of public offices ought always to be of great sincerity. We shall, therefore, again confirm what has been repeated more than once on our part; The eulbertian party rejects without any hesitation the public resources of injustice and ill use for private purposes. You rely on four principles on the duties of this newly founded office: the prevention, the second, the investigation, the co-ordination and cooperation of other institutions against fraud; and finally the protection which should be given to those who accuse it. Without going into the details of what is proposed in the legal text, I must say that we cannot agree more in all the reference to prevention, in the construction of a framework of institutional integrity, a demanding framework that acts in advance. This is one of the guiding principles of this rule and the question here is how we make that preventive model workable. The reasonable doubt and what we have to discuss and discuss is whether the concrete model proposed in the proposal is the most appropriate model for achieving such laudable ends. First because it is a model, in our view, not sufficiently contrasted and which has not meant greater effectiveness or effectiveness in the use of public funds where it has been deployed. As shown in the agreement adopted by the Basque Government, the model has been copied by different autonomous administrations and is now being debated in the Congress of Deputies, on the proposal of the parliamentary group of Citizens. And the results are questionable at best or frustrating at worst, so it's not about mimetically adopting what doesn't work or works wrong in other homes. Because one of the mandates and measures outlined in the text under consideration can be perfectly integrated into the existing legal and institutional arrangements in our autonomous community. We have a powerful mechanism to promote integrity, promote transparency, and prevent and combat corruption in Basque public administrations. Moreover, some of the ideas and precepts of this proposal are now being discussed and negotiated by parliamentary groups in the presentation of the proposed law on transparency and citizen participation. It is therefore advisable that the provisions emanating from this same Parliament should be properly coordinated, especially taking into account one of the guiding principles of this law, which is the collaboration of the newly created office with other bodies and entities governed by public law in its fight against bad practices and corruption. The Government's report reports on a multitude of agencies and entities serving Basque public administrations to promote transparency and prevent corruption. They are nine different and different instances, and I am not going to quote all of them here today, but they range from state-qualified officials in the local administration, to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, through the Ararteko, among others. As has been shown in other latitudes, we understand that the proliferation of organisms and entities that can be duplicity and inefficiency does not ensure greater fitness and usefulness in the battle against undesirable practices in public administrations. Therefore, without entering into some of the substantive measures proposed, some questionable and others not so much, we believe that the commendable spirit of them can be incardinated or incorporated into that framework of institutional integrity already in force in our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Beno, hirugarren puncture past bath lehen, recess Well, a couple of minutes for what you need. It was ten-thirty in the morning. The meeting began again at ten-thirty in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u12	Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning sexual violence against children and teenagers. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u13	Good morning, everyone. Sexual violence against children and adolescents is a very serious violation of fundamental human rights and, of course, we reiterate our absolute rejection of any expression of violence against children and adolescents. Child sexual abuse is one of the many forms of violence. Sexual abuse, as well as sexual exploitation, such as child pornography, trafficking in sexual exploitation goods, sex tourism, are forms of violence that undermine the psychological and emotional integrity, sexual freedom, well-being and development of children and adolescents. The abusers, and this must be very, very clear, they are not sick, they are not isolated elements with unique pathologies; they are citizens, coworkers, coaches, teachers, neighbors, parents, grandparents, uncles, the parish priest of the neighborhood, the basketball coach, the lord we meet every morning in the bakery, on the bus or on the subway, people of absolute trust for families and society as a whole. Fortunately, in recent decades and thanks, to a great extent, there has been a progressive visibility of domestic violence, which means that we are taking away the blindfold. It is a transnational, transcultural phenomenon that no society is free from these violences; a phenomenon that is based on principles and practices mainly adult-centered; it is the expression of an adult-centered and patriarchal society, which promotes values that justify and naturalize the abuse of power, cosification and mercantilization of the bodies of childhood, adolescence and women. It is very important that we take account of the latter, because, as we have already said, unfortunately these are not isolated facts committed by sick people; we must flee from the false simplistic solutions that do not seek fundamental transformations. In recent months we have had knowledge through the media of various cases of sexual violence; they are just a small sample of what is really happening. However, these cases have had great resonance in the media, generated social alarm and indignation. To a large extent, we have perceived disbelief and difficulty in accepting that this serious violation of rights also happens in our nearest environment. In fact, the invisibility and the consequent perplexity of many citizens is understandable, when we find, over and over again, that there is a lack of more accurate data and information about the phenomenon; moreover, we have been making blind progress for years, according to all the specialists, without a real picture of the dimension of this violation of rights. From Elkarrekin We can work, through different initiatives, to get to know more and better about the subject and also to promote various, specific measures and initiatives, trying to push policies to face this harsh reality. More than a year ago we invited Eraikiz Kolektiboa to appear in this Parliament for the presentation of the report prepared in 2016 "Sexual abuse in childhood. Visible violence.", and we also invited Save the Children, who presented us "Analysis of the situation of violence against children and adolescents in Euskadi, challenges and recommendations". In the appearances we were confirmed that sexual abuse is a more abundant phenomenon than is usually reflected in the statistics, due to its opacity and the intrinsic difficulty of obtaining real data on its incidence. To these difficulties, typical of the characteristics of this type of violence, it should be added that in the Basque Country, the last prevalence study carried out on the subject dates from 1995. In this study, 9.7% of men and 14% of women interviewed claimed to have suffered sexual abuse. It's been 23 years. It's clear we're missing a lot of data. Today we again bring to the debate an initiative on sexual violence against children and adolescents, an initiative to promote concrete and cultural changes, which are paving the way for further progress towards a society free from all violence. We have worked to reach agreement among all groups. We have been very flexible and have always sought to reach an agreement from the whole House, although we have had to give up our maximums for this, and it is also true that we have had to give up explaining the Gaztelueta issue in this initiative. We do not understand why the PNV did not want to mention the Gaztelueta case in the initiative, because we believe it is important to have it reflected in it and, therefore, that we should not be forgotten, because it is a case that is unfortunately very cumbersome in many respects. We really welcome having reached an agreement and the contents of it. First, we express our full solidarity with all victims of sexual violence in childhood and adolescence, and the utmost respect for the people who are reporting and making their cases of sexual abuse visible, because they contribute to raising awareness throughout society about this very serious violation of rights. As a Parliament, we commit ourselves to promoting all necessary measures to advance the eradication of sexual violence against children and adolescents. Once again, we call upon all public authorities, all of them, to prevail in the best interests of children and adolescents, a principle that must be especially taken into account in all cases where sexual violence is reported. A clear example of what this means was the decision taken by a sports club in Basauri, which, as soon as it became aware of possible abuses, prioritized the protection of all children over the protection of adults or the institution itself. This Parliament also calls on the Basque Church to put in place all the necessary means to prevent, denounce and protect complainants and victims, at all times facilitating the clarification, punishment and full reparation of all cases reported in educational institutions linked to it. We also call upon you to make concrete and effective commitments to take measures that offer guarantees of non-repetition. It is fair to say that in recent days we have experienced a very adequate reaction from the Church to complaints about sexual abuse in a scout group. We hope that this will not be an isolated reaction and that this path will be consolidated from now on. And another contribution, which makes this initiative and agreement to improve attention to these situations, is reflected in the point at which it is urged to strengthen all inspection protocols on the actions of the governing bodies of the schools, of all the schools, to complaints and convictions of sexual abuse in their centers, including the proposal for measures to adapt the corresponding procedure of infringements and sanctions, within the aforementioned regulatory framework of the groups involved, if such actions are contrary to the established protocol of action. It is unjustifiable for the management of an educational institution and its maximum responsibility to leave a minor and his or her family unprotected, to judge publicly, and to question and re-victimize in this way. This cannot be repeated again and we have not really been able to take further firm steps in this direction today, but we must continue to work towards the end of the protection of institutions that promote values of segregation, exclusion and contrary to the rights of children and adolescents. The Gaztelueta case will pass into history as a clear example of what an educational institution should never do in the face of possible abuses. Deep changes in the regulatory framework are needed, with necessary tools to better address this violation of rights and move towards a society free from all violence. To say that this initiative that we are debating here today is closely linked, as it could not otherwise be, with the case that has marked and continues to mark a milestone in the fight against sexual violence, the one known as the Gaztelueta case. Before I finish, I want to stop and dedicate a few well-deserved words to the victim and family of this case. We express our full support and solidarity for you. Eskerrik asko, Juan, and eskerrik asko to the whole family. And since it cannot be otherwise, our most sincere recognition for your persistence and because never, you have never sought revenge, but truth, justice and reparation. And we emphasize that it has always been from respect, with great discretion and without alarm. They have fought, you have fought to unravel and debug responsibilities, to open paths for their case and for all cases that occur and can occur from now on. Thank you sincerely to the victim for her courage, thank you sincerely to the family also for her work and her courage, and to all those who have accompanied you. I also take this opportunity to express our indignation at the shameful statements of the director of the Gaztelueta school, who has again questioned the word of the child, a victim of sexual violence, standing beside the aggressor and pointing to the current of the "I don't believe you", and thus deepening in the pain of the victim and the family. To say that we do believe you, that Elkarrekin Podemos and the coalition composed by Podemos, United Left and Equo we do believe you, and, for our part, you have all our support and all our justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u14	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Euskal popular, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. We also want to express a very clear message from the Group of the European People's Party regarding situations, cases of violence in childhood and adolescence, which is zero tolerance, our maximum rejection and endurance in action to eradicate this scourge as well. Tenemos que decir que this subject has been discussed several times in this parliament, and we have had extensive agreements, and I should remark that it was unanimously agreed upon this legislature last year, on the 27th of April. On the other hand, we've also had various occurrences of this legislature and the committee, then information and data on this subject. He said that this is not the first time we have discussed this issue, the scourge and the unfortunate situations of violence in childhood and adolescence, and the situations of sexual abuse of minors, and that this issue has also been the subject of agreements in this Parliament, in particular I will quote two: One on 27 April 2017, and another on the Commission on Human Rights; at that time, the proposing group called for the creation of a specific paper on these issues, the paper was not created but an agreement was reached, also along the lines of the previous agreement to which I referred, of 27 April 2017, this was in the Commission on Human Rights. We have also had an opportunity for the groups to hear reports, comprehensive reports, from Save de Children, from Eraikiz Kolektiboa, and another to which I will also refer, on this issue, comprehensive reports that today offer us an exact X-ray of these unfortunate situations. As I said, it is important to send a message and, in most possibilities, to be unanimous, of zero tolerance and maximum consistency with these situations. And above all also, involve, and from public institutions, take all necessary measures to eradicate these types of violence. Sexual abuse is one of the many violence against children and adolescents, and we can add that it is one of the most serious. And above all, I value the reports I have just referred to, because they tell us about trying to determine the real impact of these situations, when they are situations that, in many cases and in most cases, remain hidden and that are difficult to determine. In this sense, I would also like to quote and to bring together new data or data in some new way that have not been handled by the reports that we have already had occasion to study and analyse in a comprehensive way in this Parliament, a report also from the ANAR Foundation, which helps children and adolescents at risk, where it also makes, as I said, a very accurate X-ray of the evolution of the types of violence, the consequences of violence, the profile of the aggressor, the profile of the victim, the situations of these forms of violence such as physical violence, harassment and controls, contempt, humiliation, cyber-bullying... It also seems to me an interesting fact, which was also referred to in the report by Eraikiz Kolektiboa, which points out that the report by Eraikiz Kolektiboa referred to the occurrence of such situations of violence in different areas, which are not confined to a specific area. And I think it is important that we keep this in mind, that is, that these situations can occur in many different areas and in different areas. This report indicated that 90% of the cases occur in the family environment, such as this. The report mentioned by the ANAR Foundation speaks of the fact that, at the state level, most cases also occur in the family sphere, 28% of these situations in educational establishments, 3% in public places and 7.5% in the fields of new technologies. I also believe that it is becoming important, important, because of the use of these means, sometimes also inappropriate use. Among the consequences that the report of this foundation highlights, that produce this kind of violence, points to isolation, well the main one is anxiety, then fear, depressive symptoms, psychological problems, aggressiveness, anger and isolation. And that also in one in three cases physical injuries occur, I am already referring to cases of violence in general against minors and adolescents. I believe that in the Basque Country we have effective tools to combat these situations, but it is true, and in line with the pronouncements already reached in this House and both in the Commission on Human Rights and in plenary session, because it is necessary to strengthen, or develop, or to encourage, in a better way, their development and to urge the Basque Government to take concrete action to strengthen the existing mechanisms. I am referring to the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, and in this regard, we in our amendment raise a specific point for fulfilling the mandates in relation to this observatory. There is already a telephone and telematic service Zeuk Esan of advice and help, which we also believe is necessary to strengthen; and also all those protocols in the educational field aimed at prevention and action in such situations, which also need to be strengthened. In short, we believe that an effective and inescapable commitment by the public authorities is necessary to combat this type of violence, and above all to protect the integrity and privacy of minors. We also believe that it is important to act in the field of education and origin, although it is sometimes also difficult to determine where the source of such violence may be, but I therefore believe that it is important to call again for education in values, in the respect and dignity of the person, of human dignity and respect for the person, with concrete actions to which we referred in our amendment, which have to do with prevention, awareness-raising, early detection and comprehensive care in different areas. With regard to the compromise amendment agreed by the groups, we are not going to stand against it. I think it is important that a pronouncement should come out of this House today. If we had not liked some nuances and some incorporations in relation to some specific points in line with the fact that this type of violence occurs in all areas, and that there can be no discrimination or reference to a specific area with greater emphasis than others. But, as I say, we are not going to obstruct an agreement that we believe it is important that there be a pronouncement from this House, in line also with other pronouncements as I have mentioned, which have already been in this Parliament on this matter. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u17	Yes, thank you, good morning. Three men, a group of directors, a group of school managers, giving a press conference and telling them that he's a liar and he's a convicted victim. Besides, they make a show or visit in school, and show they've taken precautions to see what's going on inside. If he had not the anxiety of the situation, it would be enough to laugh at what these people had done, but we should take him seriously. That's why we agreed to the proposition Podemos made together, that it was a necessary contribution, but just at the moment when this press conference was given, we couldn't look at it another way. The management of the castle and school, I repeat, is again confirmed by a doctor, not by a fool, or by a press conference in the direction of the authorities, that he is a lying victim, and that the condemned man is protected. Shameful in all its senses. And to overcome the great invisibility of the state with the abuse of children, it was a mere propaganda made in the opposite direction. It's not the first time we've been talking about it, we've had some experts on it, we've been discussing our team's initiative a year ago, as we've been told. And to overcome this invisibility it is necessary to place the subject in the middle, but not in this way. "The trial of youth sentence," he called this press of shame made by the New One, and if I insist on it, it is because I want to show the gravity of the situation. As if it had not been enough for a director to re-establish a visit to a trial, as if it had not been enough for his family to see the situation again. And the family had to give a press conference later on saying that this child had to suffer a terrible pain once he heard these words. And I think it is indispensable to this, and that is what we set it up in our correction, and in order to increase it, that the Parliament wished to express at the same time the entire protection and entire censure of the community, the protection of the family and of the victim, and the entire condemnation of the conduct of the Castles, because we cannot allow of it. And we know that it is a particular case, but we believe that to delegise a press conference by a school in public order, to raise the voice by another institution at the same level or higher, which we required. That's enough, we won't accept this, we won't accept the conduct of the Castle's direction. Our entire protection, therefore, is the protection of our party, and I believe that no body can deny the family of the Castles, or the entire support and support of so many others. And beyond the gaps we have all honesty, we can get over the gaps and prevent them from ever happening again. First, in order to overcome invisibleness, we will bring this subject, and we will discuss this matter, and place sexual abuses against children on the table, because we do not wish to make them imperfect, because we wish to speak of them, to search for the solutions that surround them. Just to express it as I said at first, we agreed with our initial proposal. As you've seen, we've had a chance to make a big deal. I have shown why it was important for us to make a special mention of the case of the Castle, because it is, in some measure, an isolated case in the presence of the attitude of the direction, not an isolated in so many other respects, and also in so many other places. We wanted to protect all victims, but in this case we wanted to put the whole blame on what this institution has done on the table. But besides this, we would have shown that we will be ready to do what we can and what we can do in those means which the protocol and the law predict, and what we can do, and in this sense to make a remark on the particular accusation of our own. It's complete. Why? Because we believe, in this case, that all the aconculation we can do as an institution to overcome this sensation of desertion will always be very important. So we meet at a moment when the feminist movement has somehow achieved the possibility of talking about the women who had been raped or attacked in their time, to be able to make public what had happened to them. Let us make this space, in which the voice dares to raise itself in time of childhood, an easy space to offer, in which it is able to count what has happened to it, and besides a convenient space, to make it protected by the law, so that it may be protected by action, and that we may speak of justice, of observation. So today's deal that we've brought here is a pleasure. Let us continue to place this subject in the centre, and follow the means of completing the state of children who have suffered abuse, and of developing life as a whole as a person, and again, I repeat, a shameful press in which an institution can be made by a school. From this point of view we stand with you clearly and clearly, with all our family and victims, and we reject and continue to despise every action that is intended to revive and protect the condemned victim. So, to Castleeta, to the direction of the Castles, our entire contempt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u19	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Child sexual abuse is one of the most serious forms of violence against children and has devastating effects on the lives of children. These practices have always happened, existed and the truth is that they are not new. They have only begun to be seen as a problem that violates social norms, when, on the one hand, their impact and negative consequences on the lives and development of child victims and, on the other, the child has been recognized as a subject of rights. Child sexual abuse involves the violation of the intimate and personal limits of the child, such as the imposition of sexual behaviour by a person towards them and the child. Any form of sexual violence against boys and girls must be one of the biggest and most serious concerns of politics, and of course also of Basque politics. It is our children who are being assaulted with sometimes irreversible consequences in their lives, and in their environment, and in each and every context in which child victims develop. Therefore, the areas of intervention in the protection of children against this type of violence include from the family and their social environment in the educational, health and police fields, as well as legislation and public policies. That is what we are advising in this Parliament today, whose full compliance we call for in this compromise amendment, and that is what we ratify, among other things, once again the signatory political groups for their compliance with the competence of the Basque institutions. Because this is a phenomenon that is sometimes invisible, silent, complex, hidden, difficult to treat, where information is scarce and incidence rates are higher than what is believed. And in such a complex and difficult phenomenon, because, as the experts inform us, there are no studies available, and those that are, although methodologically correct, suffer from deficiencies that make them incomplete or non-extrapolable, and that makes them fall into estimates, where obviously there is error. The lack of sources and the lack of information comes from the intimate nature of this type of violence and from the area of intimacy in which it develops, because we are faced with violence that is not public and that does not usually leave physical evidence, which often complicates their external detection. Invisibility of abuse is increasing, especially when the victim is a child. It's close violence, says the Eraikiz report. The enemy is always close, the more peaceful a society as a whole, the less violence carried out by strangers on the street, but the nearer and even more difficult to identify and more complicated to deal with remains and can be increased. This violence does not respond to profiles, there are no distinctive features of victims or abusers, without defined stereotypes, there is nothing to determine that a minor or a minor is sexually abused, anyone can be a potential victim, but we share the speakers today and all the experts who inform us, like Eraikiz, that there are factors that help them exist, structural and at risk. It is true that children now enjoy protection that they have never had, but are subject to the protection and guardianship of others. Childhood is a valuable asset for society, but at the same time it is invisible and kept to the will of the elderly, who are not always guarantees of protection. In view of the social unprotectiveness of children arising from their consideration, I will focus on all the measures agreed upon in this important agreement, as we arrived at a year ago, which are intended to make the problem visible and to shift it from the private to the public. Visibility to bring to light the experience suffered, sine qua non condition to initiate any process that leads to overcoming it, first, to stop it if it is still occurring and, second, to initiate processes of personal construction. Abuse must cease to be a secret between the abused person and the abuser, leave privacy and move on to the public sphere. And the public dimension is a social visualization, a public dimension that can be judicialization and public denunciation, and that never again has to be hidden, neither under the family silence, nor in the confessionals of the church. Neither magic nor ethics; rigor and public service. To place above all the truth, to make it visible. Don't pay attention to those who can look the other way. Also in the judicial sphere, the elimination of insensitive judicial proceedings within the upper reaches of the child and the girl child, increasing the reporting obligation of all places where abuse can be known. That is the case in Spain, still under investigation by the European Commission to assess whether the judicial practice in Spain guarantees the rights of minors who claim to have suffered sexual abuse in the family, could be deprived of fundamental and procedural rights. The Commission refers to the possible misuse of the best interests of the child as a primary consideration. So far the explanations of the Socialist Party to a more general issue in relation to sexual abuse of children and adolescents, but the Basque Socialist Party does not want to stick to these general considerations and wants to talk about the Gaztelueta case, which we understand in this non-law proposal is contextualized. In the light of the situation created, the Basque institutions, in particular the Basque Government and the Department of Education, cannot act as if nothing has happened, nor can they stand idly by, especially with the shameful action that has been taken by the governing bodies of the Gaztelueta school, violating the protocols of action before the complaint of sexual abuse and defending the convicted person for abuse after the end of the judicial procedure, although we know that the last seat remains. The authorities of this school may not have been held responsible, they may not have been held responsible administratively or criminally for the situation of sexual abuse suffered by the child, but their actions have been morally reprehensible, ethically repugnant and unworthy of educational leaders in this mostly committed Basque society against violence. In the compromise amendment, there are binding commitments to ensure that the public authorities, from the judiciary to the Government, with one objective, put above all partisan, partisan or political interest, the guarantee that in our country, and throughout the country, in all areas, but, in particular, because of the issue before us, public, private and concerted schools are constituted as safe spaces in the face of sexual abuse of children. There are protocols of action, it is true, but it is also true that they are not always complied with. Moreover, it may even be that, in addition to that, after there is condemnation of the sexual abuse reported, as we have said before, the governing bodies of the school incur a shameful public attitude or behaviour and even deny what a court ruling has collected. For all that said, conclude this intervention, of course, showing our solidarity, support and respect for the victim of the abuse in the Gaztelueta school and his family, recognizing the need and demand for action of the public authorities. There are tools, protocols are approved, but we must continue to work with a clear objective and this cannot happen again. Finally, we believe that legislation is necessary that obliges and sanctions; the ethical commitment of society that cannot look elsewhere is essential, and it is required to work to ensure that victims and their families do not suffer the helplessness after what has happened. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u20	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, all of you. It is well known that all the subjects we publish and discuss are of great importance, but there are some things that are peculiarly affected by the nature or quality of the subject. To-day, at least, I think it's one of them, because of the state in which children and teenagers meet sexual abuses, sometimes children and teenagers can't be able to understand what's going on, because they don't yet have that capacity to consume the damages they're in reference to or someone who loves them. Therefore, when each group presents its contributions or arguments here, I think it is necessary to act with more than ever, and I hope to choose my words at least in the present day. Especially because I want to be a part of prudence, and the continuity of this principle of prudence has conditioned and conditioned my participation, the words reflected in that attitude and medium of our party. The irrigation of liberty and right of others is unacceptable, and when we speak of children, the abuse they make of their weakness in such cases is unacceptable. We are now accusing of violence, which breaketh the dignity and rights of the individual, but the abuse of these abuses is still more serious, as I have said, in the establishment of children and teenagers. We're asking for integration of politics, or to improve and strengthen those integrated policies. We demand the active attitude of institutions to oppose it, as well as that of other institutions, or of distinct public powers, and a message to prevent such actions in society. As Miss Rojo said, it's also important that you open the message. This government and the groups that support the government have always expressed our position. We have discussed in this law several times sexual violence against children and teenagers. Mrs Garrido made a summary, and at the meeting of the 27th of April 2017 the law of sexual abuse against children was discussed; The President has often said so himself. Then, on June 5th, 2017, we discussed it also by accepting certain definite actions, which a vast majority had provided for. And even in the middle of the day, we wanted to get that deal again so that it could be stronger. On the way to accomplish all these things, the government has given steps, which is carried on in a direct manner, contrary to the violence of children and teenagers. I can't say without you telling the program to help the families. The man who is received on the planet, who exercises and strengthens his mentalisation and attention to children and teenagers, because he is progressive. As for the protocols established by the Board of Education, these are especially important, and we quote them in a direct way in the middle, so that we do not extend much on this, but I want to point out that we are always playing in our competition with our own frames, and I wanted to make that clear, now in my participation and even in the medium when reflected. As I have said this day, because I want to act or act upon this principle of prudence, I think it necessary, and not to fall into popular discourses. As I was saying, I'd like to get you to work on these serious abuse situations, and this is where you're working. We've got a middle course, and I think we've all been doing it in a decent and clear way this time, in order to achieve this middle course. In the end it was possible that our differences had been to give a great deal of general or particular insight, I should say, the position of our party, to quote our case in the Castles, or not in the middle of the day. In the original initiative, the facts mentioned, in the original initiative introduced by Podemos, were on our way to accept them almost as a whole, we made a lot of rounds. Always respecting the competition and, well, the thread of the already active tools, many of which are addressed to the Board of Education. But we cannot go against the established regulations, moved by a particular case, when there are other mechanism and organizations with competition. As I have said, in the Castle case, we have a political responsibility, and following it, to act with this prudence, to ask, is minimum. Therefore, although the case of the Castle is very serious, unfortunately it is not the only one, and in our middle-day middle course we have tried to protect all of us. Nevertheless, I should like to say, about the young man of the Castle, that the Director of this school's words had been remarkably improper. We're talking about a situation that makes or affects a whole family, which hasn't yet a fixed resolution, but the Director didn't do the right thing either with his family or with his family, or with respect to the judicial proceedings. And we really understand the pain which these words have caused to the family. It's the director of a concerted center, so his recession or his recession doesn't concern you and this Congressman. The leaders of the Centre are inclined to make a decision, but, well, we think the center should reflect deeply about it. And I repeat, and I want you to be clear that our team doesn't share the director's words. However, that doesn't mean that the Board of Education shouldn't act in this centre, and that in every center of the euscal educational system, it's the guardian of a protocol against abuse. And if this is not so, then we shall act in the proper way, and set up the respective processes. And so our engagement, as it is received at the fifth point of our middle course. Erdaraz daukat, beraz, erdaraz irakuriko dut, eta guztiz garrantzizkoa della ulertzen doubelako: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to implement and develop protocols for prevention and action in the various areas of competence in the face of alleged crimes of sexual abuse of minors, as well as others relating to protection, ill-treatment and harassment. And it is also urged that, in cases where the current legislation so requires, the Basque Government be treated as a private prosecution." I think this commitment is very important. It has also been discussed about the abuses of sex which had been given to the Church's camp, and it has been recorded at the sixth point, when we see what has happened last week, we see that such steps are taking place within the scope of the church, and we hope that it will continue that way. And, as I have said, we have obtained a middle course, my gratitude to all groups, for making contributions as I have shown, and for their generosity the agreement today has been possible. I'm also grateful to the Popular team for allowing this half-way in the way of a complete mouth. That's all thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing to response shift... Anybody want to talk? Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors and Euzbertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; supporters of 71; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u23	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the other law of the Parliamentary Group, of judicial proceedings against the Independence of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, the high field which represents the EH Collect Group, the lady has the word to present and defend herself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u24	Yes, good morning to all of you, and thank you very much, Your Honor. I'll begin with a thing, and insist on a sentence why we've brought this subject today. And for that I shall say one thing in a very short manner. The political situation in Catalonia interests us, we are interested because always and in most cases it affects us or it can affect us, and we are concerned because we think that what happens in Catalonia, we see that what happens in Catalonia is not the best thing to seek solutions neither in Catalonia nor in Euskal Herria, in relation to a people, people who want to build a democracy based on respect for the will of their citizenship. And that's why we've brought this suggestion, and the question that's probably in the heads of all, why we're planning this right now. Well, it is very easy, because we are at the beginning of the trial, when, as it were, the precursions proposed the day before, were laid upon the table. The second thing is to consider, that we are speaking of the rights of Catalonia and the solutions. Third, because some people are still in custody at this moment, and even more that those who are in prison are doing a hunger strike. And finally, when we were with them, we had to give an answer to a request made by them, which was why we thought it the time to make this proposal. And in the first place, what do we do with this proposal? We accuse the use of justice, we accuse political use. What we accuse is that there is political control in courts of justice, and that there is no division of power, and that everything that is taking place is morally absurd. Why do we say that? Because we think that judges, no judge as individuals or collectively have a function assigned or assigned that they seem to have assumed, which is to defend the homeland and the unity of the homeland. Because we think they can't use their functions to go beyond them, and to do an act outside of those functions, they're on the site that they're on the judicial ladder. Because the function of executing and judging does not allow them to take an active position in the pursuit of conduct that is solely and exclusively due to political action, because the instructing role in criminal jurisdiction cannot have or never forget legal and procedural guarantees in all proceedings, and it does not allow for the invention of crimes or the extensive application of crimes in the service of political decisions. Because judges cannot act with criteria of opportunity, and this has become very clear in all the prosecutions they have done with the people who are in this process, triggering orders or deactivating them according to the interests and judicial decisions in the different countries. Because neither one can choose or judge, nor where people are detained to arbitrarily attract competition. And all this has been quite evident in the resolutions that have been handed down by some European courts. This is why we plan the first point, we accuse all these things which we have done, and we say this is not what a judicial power ought to do, which is contrary to it, and is supposed to be a very clear and clear political use. But we don't just stick to it, we talk about other things, and we talk about it, and this is very important to us, about political solutions, where rights are considered by us, where decisions are respected and decided. Why do we say this and why do we believe that this point we have raised and agreed with the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group is also so important? Because the last few days we are witnessing an important dialectic escalation against Catalonia. To the usual appeals made by some parties from the Spanish right to 155 and which are in the mouth of all of them every day, we have seen with concern and we see with concern those letters that the Sánchez Government has sent to the Catalan Government, and we see with concern the speech by President Sánchez who talks to us about dialogue, speaks to us about a solution, but he does not put any concrete proposal or plan on the table in this regard, and he confines himself to making a call for dialogue without doing anything more than that, a call for dialogue. And besides, it's a contrast to us with what's going to happen tomorrow. Yes, but he wants to make it very clear that the Spanish Government can tell you what Catalonia is and why they go there, and they're going to tell you what Cataluña es Esaña y que Esaña en Catalña." And that's how I see that Council of Ministers that's going to be done tomorrow in Catalonia. And it also seems to me that the chosen date cannot be very strange either: it is the 21st of December, the same day that last year was voted, the same day that an independentist government was elected in Catalonia, and at a time when on the other hand we are hearing – on the right side – that 155 has to be applied. You choose that day. Man, you don't do it with an idea of provocation, but from my point of view you seem pretty. And what do we plan on this proposition? It must be respected that whatever the people of Catalonia say, and decide, and that the way must be daemonized, and that if possible, it must be done in a settled way, but because it is also possible that they should be able to do so, because we have seen in other places, to lead that way forward. We don't say it's going to be easy, but what we say is that we have to be possible on that point, and that what we say must be respected. And in the other two different senses, which we are speaking at the last moment, we reflect on the political prisoners in the Catalan prisons, and we must consider that these people, at least some, are starving in strike. The hunger strike is not performed in a very ordinary way. It is a hunger strike when a prisoner thinks he ought to defend his rights, and he must consider everything he supposes, and it is a few days that he has this hunger strike. We cannot forget that the hunger strike is a denunciation. It is a complaint by people who are in prison and are also pointing out or want to point out with this hunger strike the political nature of the process to which they are being subjected. And they also want to point out that they understand that in that trial, which will be seen in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court almost certainly, their rights will not be respected and they ask the Constitutional Court to respond to their claims. It is true that Catalan society is asking them – and yesterday we met a letter – to stop this hunger strike. I don't know whether they've left it or not right now, but what's true is that they're doing it so far at least, and they've been in that situation for a long time. And considering this, we see that we are bound, that it is our obligation, to demand the freedom of these political prisoners. What we see is they have to be on the streets. We've said it a lot. We said it in different places. In this parliament, too, it was permitted to fire these political prisoners, but they are still in prison. And it is our obligation, we understand, to request the liberty of those who are subjected to a prison situation on grounds of non-legal or legal criteria, but on the basis of collective exemplifying criteria. And this is yet another example of the fact that the judicial process has gone beyond the legal framework and is based on political connotations and a kind of goal of social copying. It's time for the clays to use the dugu nahi. And we plan to finish another point. And this point is a direct connection when we were with them." The commission of human rights went to stay with them. But we have agreed to send this commission with another plan, and we think it necessary that the question should be there, and therefore we think it most important to be present; And since we're at Christmas, and I don't think, at this moment, anyone will want to use the second shift especially, because that's a question first, only one shift, I don't have a problem. I have no will at present to enter into a political or discord, because I am convinced that they will not move from position to position, or PP, or PSOE, nor think that at this moment there will be an opportunity for a dispute or abstention for our proposition. Don't see that dot. So, I'm not gonna use the second round, and what I'm gonna say is finish one thing. Gabonak will say, Gabonak will say, and most people on Christmas love this of peace and love, the Olentzero, some of the Magi Kings, surely; the Magi Kings I, being of the People's Party, would think a little, because there is one who is called Baltasar, who was called Garzón and did a little work when he unveiled some things from corruption, but well, everyone who asks for things from whom he wants, from Olentzero, from Mari Domingi or from whom he wants. Me, normally what people say on Christmas is that they bring peace and love. Well, then let me bring you peace, so that you will let Catalonia decide your future, and that I will bring you love, because you want Catalonia so much, love it and let it decide. And if they don't do either, I hope you bring them coal from the good. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u25	Thank you, signor. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Martinez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Congressman. Well, I'll try to use the first round, too, así que, but I'll make some comments, at least to make a little discussion. It is true, for the ninth time in this legislature, what we have discussed about Catalonia has been brought to mind for nine times, and I think, as is almost all, I shall be particularly correct in this interference. I think it will again be defined today, well, three very different points of view in order to solve the serious crisis of the state: It's on one side that the Basque People collect, and that of the Jestle Party of the Eusco, well, that's a straight line, the follower's Process of Catalonia. He said that once again today there are going to be three clear ways of addressing the serious territorial crisis facing the State: on the one hand that of Bildu and PNV, with a line that we understand is in this case a follower of the parties of the trial. An increasingly right-wing PP with the fear that they will be cut right by Citizens or VOX, and a PSE-PSOE that, according to the day of the week, because here I do have to say that it says one thing or the other. The same is seen to them, as last week, threatening to replace the work of the Mossos with that of the Civil Guard, than to offer a meeting of Sánchez with the Gobern, which seems to us very well to meet Sánchez with Torra, seems to us to be normal in a democratic state and of law; in fact, we believe that an obviousness should not become heroic and that, far from news, it should be something normal, more if possible, when the situation is of tension and conflict, right? But what is needed are fewer announcements and gestures and more facts, courageous facts and determinations to bring about a political conflict, which needs political and non-judicial solutions. And here, or here comes the third way, together the third way Podemos planned, and we try to place our proposals on the table and look for solutions, and even in our point of view make some sense in these discussions. And what is the meaning of these disputes? Well, to make a subtle diagnosis, to place objectivity on the table, and to deal with certain independent agents on this subject. In all the amendments that Elkarrekin Podemos have registered to the nine initiatives on Catalonia that have already been presented here, there is one element that we repeat over and over again, which is the reference to human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International or mechanisms of the United Nations system, such as the High Commissioner for Human Rights. And why are we doing this? Why do we include it in all our amendments? I believe that for a very simple reason, because at a time when the positions of the parties are polarized in blocks and fronts, or they just admit black and white, or because at a time when institutions such as the judiciary, which should strive to be an independent and respectable power, what they do is become hooligans And being at that moment, we are convinced that today it is more necessary than ever to put the speaker on objective, neutral and independent points of view that can offer some light in all this political and judicial confusion. And of course, if Elkarrekin We can firmly affirm that the pre-trial detention of the leaders of the trial The same is true of the disproportionate criminalization of the offence of rebellion or the serious lack of guarantees that are being seen in the instructions of the case. It is clear that polarization, the alignment of one and the other parties to the other, makes these opinions full of subjectivity. And their opinions are no less important, obviously. But, of course, in the eyes of a good part of the citizenry they are not an objective reference. Reference that are these independent institutions. To a large extent, if Basque citizenship, and Elkarrekin We can also believe that pre-trial detention is excessive and exacerbated, that the crime of rebellion is disproportionate or that the due judicial guarantees are not being respected, it is not because Puigdemont, or Torra, or Mr. Egibar, or Mrs. Goirizelaia are being heard. It is because they hear Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights say so. I count all this for a very simple reason. As my colleague Jon Hernández said, in the debate on the validity of the Constitution, the Basque Left we agree with Euskal Herria Bildu and with PNV in the diagnosis, but we do not agree in the solutions. And the same thing happens today. That is why we have not signed the compromise, but as I will repeat at the end of the speech, we would certainly like to see a vote on points. In this ninth debate on Catalonia, it is proposed that the Basque Parliament should act as an observer of human rights in trial, in the trial of the leaders of the trial We say that the observation of human rights, to be credible, to be effective, to be useful to people who may potentially see their fundamental rights violated, must be independent, must be neutral and must be objective; come on, they must make it organizations such as Amnesty International and not members of PNV, Bildu or any member of this Parliament. With all due respect, I don't think it will be very useful for Proces- Why? Although these people are very objective to themselves or to our prejudices, yet they are the shadow of partialness, and these assertions would lose their value. Nevertheless, the servation of human rights is not everything, but a work to make it useful, an utilizer, a path, a retention on the systems of human rights, international knowledge and experience. And why not, Mr. Egibar or the Highland, instead of sending him there, we are not protecting him, Well, this job, the other organizations that are the Internationale, who are spectants in the matter of human rights? Why don't we let those who know go there, who we all believe and understand that what we understand will be neutral and objective in this process? It is a proposition on this point, that there should be such entities as Amnistya Interacional, if we go there to observe them, and leave them in their hands, in the hands of these speculators, which no one takes notice of, and whose conclusions I am not going to lay; There's an old saying that says "slipper to your shoes." And we in Elkarrekin We have offered PNV and Bildu the possibility of having a text in these terms, but it is true that it has not been possible, then, if they have the right to vote for points the amendment, we will agree with some of them and in the latter, in particular, we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u27	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u28	Good. I will begin by agreeing on a few things with Mrs Goirizelaia, among others, to announce that we will not use the turn of the replica and use a measured tone when putting forward the initiatives of each one, I believe that in a little more we will coincide. When I prepared this speech, I could not help but remember that the proponent of this initiative has another initiative in which he proclaims the separation of powers and reproves a judge who has given an opinion on what politicians do, because it is inevitable to reach a conclusion which, on the other hand, I think is quite well known. There are those who want this House to assess judges on the basis of whether or not they are right, and this Parliament is not for this, and we will talk about this when it comes to it. What is proposed to us today is sincerely a further misconception in the race in which some have decided to embark on the one-sided vision of things, of our society, of Spanish society, of Catalan society, and a further misconception in this endless chain of permanent contempt of the system itself, which causes us to be here today in the rostrum saying what we want, because this Parliament is going to vote for this Parliament to go from observer to trial, ruling in advance that the judicial system, that the justice professionals, whom you know perfectly, are not guarantors of our rights. This Parliament is going to vote that our very free political opinion, which we all have, has a higher value in a rule of law than the established procedure for accusations and defences, evidence and witnesses and expertise. And as much as anyone wants to place, by the way, I am no longer addressing Mrs Goirizelaia, on a sort of third track and placing the socialists on the same side, without nuances, that in the People's Party, because I think it is sincerely unbelievable in the eyes of the whole world and both intentions are not true. As when you intend to bow this to the Basque left, when four days ago you told us that there is neither left nor right here, but the ones above and the ones below. Maybe it's because since we're at Christmas and the Olentzero arrives just like you want him to be given that title the Olentzero, because otherwise I think you have it quite difficult. But it is also that this Parliament will again show that there is a majority in this House to which this perversion that you are giving aside from the judicial system seems to worry you only when what is being talked about is your only thought, the independenceist. I have never seen you promote international or other observers in trials that valued the violation of social rights, that's like second-class to you. Today we confirm once again what we already know, that there is a majority in this House that is obsessed with its independenceist cause, and it is true that again half of Catalan society, also in the Basque region, forgets the one that felt abandoned by its political representatives, by the way, in Catalonia, and that in this House there is a majority that envyes those processes that have, by the way, divided to extremes extremely dangerous to the citizenry and that also wants to give warmth to those who defend it. My group understands the different views that can be had on the facts of which they are accused, and we can understand and even share the criticisms of a situation of provisional detention. And we can understand that every thought should be given to the decisions taken by the courts, to the most reprehensible mechanisms of police use for the creation of a political police that have been known. What we find unacceptable is the effort to tear down that space that we agreed on forty years ago. We recently had an initiative here in this regard, trying to ruin the prestige of a democratic political system that allows us to be in this Parliament today. We also find it incomprehensible that in this endeavour they always find an ally to the party that has been at the head of the institutions of this country for the past forty years. The Socialist Group is not going to participate actively or passively in this strategy and will continue to strive to put on the table proposals for respect, dialogue, negotiation, pact, plurality and legality, a part that you are always forgetting, which is what we are doing in our amendment. And we will continue to do what is in our hands so that from our governments there is not the slightest temptation to drag their decisions, to drag on to the very dangerous path that Catalan independence has taken to the whole of that society to which we sincerely have no envy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u29	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u30	Good morning. I also promise to use the first round, at least the first round. And besides, I am going to be very exact and very short today, because Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Joaquim Forn and Jordi Sánche, had been to our party by prisoners who are starving to strike, the chairman of the Basque Council, and with him was Josephba. This nearness, therefore, is something that certainly exists, and I think it will be from the hand of a majority that is here made, or will be accepted, and I think that some points will still be a larger majority, for I am here to read these points, and I have no other foundation for any one to dispute or dispute with him, but these points are said to be of the same medium and medium. "The law of Europe accuses the Spanish State, because in a judicial trial against the independent leaders of Catalonia, it is a politically Instruizing justice. And it proves that the document which Cosidó has been given to him is entirely dismembering the principle of the division of power. It has shown, with all transparency, that judicial power is the strategy of conducting political instances, controlled by the second court, and seized by the presidence of the 61th ward, in order to leave the catacombinism without a head, and to transfer independence of independence. The Eusgian law accuses that crimes which are intended to be attributed to Catalan Independence are legal absurdities and even social and political stupidity. The Eusual parliament indicates that the judicial policy rather than the solution of the solutions, insists, blocks, and renders them difficult. That political conflict, derived from the relation of Catalonia and the Spanish State, must be found to be a negotiated solution based on conversation, by means of political and democratic means. For this reason the legislature requires the powers of the Spanish Common-wealth: One. They may respect the people of Catalonia and the people who compose it, their rights, their individuals, and their collective ones, and their decisions on their political future, free and democratic. The parliament requires immediate release of Carme Forcadel, Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart, Oriol Juqueras, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Raull Romeva, Joaquim Forn and Dolors Ba." We want them on the streets and free. And finally, "The legislature decides that it will be in a verbal trial in the second council of the Supreme Court, with the purpose of sending a delegation, and asking the President of this House to make the necessary arrangements." In short, the three-four points which we are going to put to the vote and which are going to be adopted are the following: "The Basque Parliament denounces the political instrumentalization of justice carried out by the Spanish State in the judicial process against independenceist leaders in Catalonia and notes that the so-called Document Cosidó", which some have described as Cosidó Catalá, " supposes the absolute bankruptcy of the principle of separation of powers, because it discovers with absolute transparency the strategy of directing the judiciary from political bodies, controlling the second chamber of the Supreme Court from behind, and presiding at room 61, with the political objective of deceiving leaders of Catalan sovereignism and liquidating independence". This already underlined it and raised it to strategic condition on his day Soraya Sáez de Santamaría. "The Basque Parliament denounces that the crimes that are intended to be attributed to the Catalan independenceists constitute in addition to a legal nonsense, a social and political misconception. The Basque Parliament states that the judicialisation of politics, far from offering solutions, enquises, blocks and makes it difficult. The political conflict arising from the relationship between the Spanish State and Catalonia must find a solution that is dialogued and negotiated through political and democratic channels. Parliament therefore urges the various powers of the Spanish State to respect the people of Catalonia, the people who make up it, their individual and collective rights and the decisions freely and democratically taken on their political future. The Basque Parliament demands the immediate release of Carme Forcadel, Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart, Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Raúl Romeva, Joaquim Forn and Dolors Bassa." And finally, "the Basque Parliament agrees to be present at the sessions of the oral hearing to be held in the second chamber of the Supreme Court through the delegation designated for this purpose, for which it requests the President of the Chamber to carry out the appropriate actions". That's all. Good Christmas to you who believe, and happy to all the rest, and good new year to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. A group that hasn't announced any correction, Mr. Sémper, representative of the Basque Potion Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I have come down to this rostrum with the determined will to deal, with the rigour and seriousness that this House deserves, with an initiative that presents us today to the Alimon Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, which, from my legal and, of course, political point of view, does not deserve that respect, and of course, does not live up to what a House of these characteristics, a House like this, deserves. Mr Egibar has read, in an effort to save the ingenuity in the intervention, twice read the initiative they have presented between the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu. And I'm going to do something similar but just to sum up, don't worry, because I think it's very relevant what the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu have agreed. You say that in Spain justice is used. The Basque Nationalist Party claims that justice is being used in Spain. The Basque Nationalist Party claims that the crimes that are intended to be attributed to the Catalan independenceists, sic, because it is not the independenceists but the independenceists who have failed the law, constitute legal nonsense and a social and political misconception. This is affirmed by the Basque Nationalist Party, sponsored and promoted by Bildu. And they also demand that the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu, in a legislative chamber, demand that the judiciary release people accused of serious crimes. You therefore stand not only as legislators who already are, with a sphere of truth confined to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but also as lawyers, prosecutors and judges. You are the law, not only do you do it, you have not only the constitutional power to approve it, which is the one that gives us the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy in this House, but you are also established in the law. And you have the boldness to come to this House and tell us what it is and that it is not legal and tell the judges, the magistrates, who you have to put on the street or not, you. This is nature at the end of what we face, that there are politicians, that besides in that same text they allow the luxury of talking to us about separation of powers, and they say it in this rostrum with intended and with a serious imposture. And they come here to tell us that we do not believe in democracy and that we do not believe in the separation of powers, when they then tell the courts what they have to do. Who decides what's a felony or what's not? You, Mr. Egibar, really? You come to this House to tell us what is a crime and what is not. You come here to tell us who has to be on the street and who doesn't? Who is to be judged and who is not? Is this really what the Basque Nationalist Party defends? Of course that's what the Basque Nationalist Party stands for! One of the fundamental characteristics of the democracy of the constitutional regimes, of the liberal democracies, of the West I dare say, not only of this country but of those around us, is that we live in conflict, we live in political discrepancy, of course, because there are people who think in one way and people who think in another. And in modern democratic states they are articulated with tools to make it easier for that discrepancy to have a channel, to look for points of encounter, of coexistence between different people, between people who limp on one side and others who limp on the other, among those who feel one way and feel another. We have resolved this long ago through the law, the norm, of which we are endowed in parliaments like this to live together. So that it is not the will of Mr Egibar or Mrs Goirizelaia that decides what is a crime and what is not. There are rules, there are laws that we discuss first in Parliaments, we pass, and when someone skips them, there are courts that apply the law. Mrs Goirizelaia and Mr Egibar do not apply it, because even if the dominant speech seems to be, this is not the case. The law does not apply neither Mrs Goirizelaia nor Mr Egibar, the law does not depend on the political will of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu. The law, its enforcement, its observance or not, depends on what the courts decide according to what we have previously adopted in the legislatures. This is basically called separation of powers, it's called living together in a modern society and a developed society. In Spain, and we have already discussed this in this Parliament, too, not too long ago, there are no political prisoners; there are politicians who skip the law, give brutes with the law, with the courts and with its application. Look, when a president of an autonomous community, or any other political leader, could pass me – the advance that will never happen –, could pass you – I'm already beginning to have some doubt – and I could pass it to you, as has happened to you at other times in history. When a political leader finds that, in response to requests, for example, from the Constitutional Court, not only does he not comply with them, but he decides to impose with five decisions of the Constitutional Court, passing through the arch of triumph the legality in force, obviously, this in any modern country, in any democratic country that respects itself, has consequences. Here comes ufano and smiling, here comes satisfaction of having known, five decisions of the Constitutional Court, I put them, I take a photo with them and it is wide Castile. No, this has consequences. If there are certain individuals who, in defense of a political position, decide to get into a Civil Guard car, paint it, fill it with banners and encourage the mob so that justice cannot act, obviously, as you will understand, here and in any modern country, it has consequences. You go to Hendaya, Mr. Egibar, you cross the Muga At the most complicated time, at the hardest time, at the most terrible time of street violence, you were very careful to encourage movements on the other side of the mug, in Iparralde, in the French Basque Country, you were very careful, because you were perfectly aware of what was going on as if you were going to put a finger on a CRS, for example, or you were perfectly aware of what was supposed to encourage certain illegal behaviors. That was fortunately changing in Spain and was also more complicated in Spain, more and more, fortunately, because we went along with the answer we gave to totalitarianism; before those who wanted to skip the law, we went along with tools to protect the freedom of all. Because you, because you are independentists, Mr Egibar, Mrs Gorizelaia, gentlemen of EH Bildu and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, because you are independentists, you have no more rights than I do not, you have exactly the same rights. And they also have the same channels and obligations to defend them, which is the observance of the laws we have acquired and if they want to change it, change it. Look, what we are witnessing in Catalonia, unfortunately, is an absolutely irresponsible offensive, on the part of independentist politicians, whom their people, whom their citizens, do not care very much about, because they have done everything in their hand over the last few years to divide Catalans, to confront them, to encourage conflict, to pour gasoline, instead of serene, rather than to seek ways of understanding. And not only have you done it from pulpits, whether in parliaments or outside parliaments, you have done it by jumping the law, and that in Spain, in a democratic, social and legal state, modern like that of Spain, has consequences and you, gentlemen of EH Bildu, know it very well, and you of the Basque Nationalist Party should know it too. We deeply regret, although it is no longer new, this independenceist offensive that leads EH Bildu, along with the Basque Nationalist Party, to advocate not only the breaking of the rule of law, but also what that entails, the breaking of the separation of powers. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. We'll take the answers turn. No answer from EH Collect. Together, Poedemus, there's no answer. Not even Socialists. Not even eubertarians. And the Popular Party wants to continue?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that I am in my parliamentary right, that to this day I have it, right? That is to say, I can intervene, according to the Rules of Procedure, even if there is an inexperienced parliamentary attempt to try this to throw the stone and hide the hand, that is, we will support this, but little, it does not seem, it is not noticed. No, let's talk about this a little bit more, because I want to tell you something too. This Christmas spirit leads us all to desire the best things, Mrs. Goirizelaia, but of course, it is pleasantly surprising that you lie to Garzón, the rope in the hangman's house. It is truly surprising that you lie as a reference of authority to him who has so drawn attention to you for that whole thing is ETA and these things. I think it's a schizophrenia that we're already making amazing progress on. Look, in relation to 155, because it's demonized, and I understand that it's a very visible and very easily identifiable flag, which gives you an argument that doesn't need too much explanation. The real responsibility for the implementation of the 155 is Mr Puigdemont, they are the true independenceists in Catalonia. Of course, the implementation of 155 is activated as long as those who have the responsibility to rule wisely and in accordance with the law their autonomous community, as it is in this case, miss it, because in fact, like other countries, like other countries in our environment, like other countries of the European Union, they have constitutional tools to respond when this happens, Spain also has it and also contemplates it in the Constitution. But I'm going to tell you two things, the first really serious. Do you know what happened – of course, here everyone has their life experience, obviously, and each one also responds to this, what happens is that there are objective things – do you know what happened in Catalonia when 155 was applied, in an immense, remarkable part of the citizenship in Catalonia? Relief, relief. Because when you're ruled by irresponsible people, even a lot of nationalists want that to change, you know? And when one is governed by one who has only one goal in life, that is to generate conflict, that is to generate confrontation and not to deal with the problems that citizens have, as we are seeing that it begins to happen in Catalonia with certain social movements, that they claim to their government to do something to alleviate certain ravages for which it is happening and their government tells him, listen, what comes to me to talk about wages? Talk to me about independence. When this happens and there is a Government and in this case a State that rigorously, seriously and proportionally implements part of the legal system, such as 155, this causes relief. Because what is at stake here is that the institutions function, that public services are provided with quality and efficiency, that the money that citizens pay through their taxes and that they find it difficult for a congo to do so, has a result in their day to day; that governments do what they are paid for. But when there are governments that use their political responsibility for other things, which is to release their particular obsessions, and that results in the citizen and harms him, then obviously 155 applies. And I have spoken to Mari Domingi, Mrs. Goirizelaia, and Olentzero, and I assure you that she does not rule out bringing the 155 to Catalonia in 2019. If the independenceists skip the law and if the independenceists continue on this path of violation of the rights of all Catalans, Olentzero will bring 155, do not fill you with any doubt and I know you do not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. The discussion is over. And we'll vote for the birth-conditioning that EH is collected and the Eubertarians signed. We can vote. Wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yeah. Dots? Wait, then. Is there no problem in voting? How? Okay. Well, we'll vote one for two and four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 57; the opponents are 17; the whites are 0.0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u36	So there's one, two and four points to be accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the contrary, 17; white, 0; abstainations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u37	So the third point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the fifth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 28; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u38	So the fifth point is also accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Carollo to the parliamentary members of the Podemos, known together by José Ramone Becero, in the Eukadin eucate of the invading species. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Becerra, is your word, in order to present and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I'll be short, I'll be short, and I won't use my second round either. I would like to make an introduction to the motion I am presenting today, saying that today we are not going or at least it is not my intention, to judge here in this House, whether the eucalyptus is a good or bad species per se. We do not judge species, because species are not good or bad. What we judge is how eucalyptus behaves in our ecosystems, how it behaves in our mountains; not in the Australians, but in the Basques, how eucalyptus behaves here. The reality is that eucalyptus in Euskadi are harmful. They are harmful and have environmental consequences and this is a fundamentally environmental but also social and economic debate, no doubt. I mean, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't The eucalyptus here Euscadin, and no, that's not my opinion, and it's not even the opinion of the kologists, it's the opinion of scientists. And scientists, as we all know, give their opinion based on the data. And according to the data, the eucalyptus dilizes and impoverishes our soil, and the same species are banished, and consequently extends to other areas. Hence, for all this, eucalyptus is the inbasore species, and thus we must name it as an inbasore species. And we must consider that here there is no other kind of tree talking. It's not a common tree, it's a special tree, and it's a question, and I'll explain it briefly, how does it do it? How does the eucalyptus act to behave as it behaves in Euskadi? I'll do it in a didactic way and in five minutes. Look, the eucalyptus leaves don't break down in Euskadi. They do not decompose, because in Euskadi there is no animal, no bug, no insect that is able to eat them. Only koalas can eat eucalyptus leaves. There is no invertebrate in Euskadi that can break down the leaves of the eucalyptus. That means they don't rot. Eucalyptus do not rot. What happens is that, little by little, as they accumulate, they end up with the atrophic chain, well in the soils, well in the waters. When they impoverish the atrophic chain, what happens is that the soils have a lower nitrogen and organic matter fixation, produce less organic matter, the soils become impoverished. Under an eucalyptus the soils are always impoverished. And not only do the eucalyptus become impoverished, but the eucalyptus, as they consume much more water, impoverish and dry the soil, impoverish and dry. In fact, they began to bring the eucalyptus, for example, to the area of Andalusia, to desiccate marshes and swamps; not to produce wood, to desiccate marshes and swamps. I repeat here that the species is not bad in itself, it is how the species behaves. Well, the leaves that do not decompose, in addition, results in a series of chemicals, the famous eucalyptus essential oil, which prevents the germination of other species. Eucalyptus prevents the germination of other species. As a result, lichens and other plants disappear and birds disappear with them. All this is data based on scientific reports. This is how the eucalyptus ends our biodiversity in our mountains, but we have the second part, how it colonizes the eucalyptus, how it colonizes. Well, eucalyptus is a kind of fast growing, very fast growing. There are studies in Galicia and Portugal that show that in 23 years, in 23 years, four hectares of eucalyptus become 64 hectares of eucalyptus, approximately doubling its surface every year and a half. But it has another technique that it uses very often, and is that the eucalyptus resists fire. They resist fire their roots and seeds need fire to germinate. Therefore, the eucalyptus does what it does is to create a dryness, leaf and highly flammable essential oil condition of eucalyptus that has led to the firemen of Australia having called it the gasoline tree. It is not that the eucalyptus causes fires, it is that it creates the conditions necessary for the fires to occur. That is why the most virulent fires occur when there are eucalyptus by means, as has happened in Portugal in the last, for example. Sure, what's going on in Euskadi? That the eucalyptus are moving forward. In the coastal area of the wooded area of Lemoiz 75%, 75%, are already eucalyptus. In Maruri-Jatabe, 66; in Muskiz, 60; in Bakio, more than 50; in Bermeo, 41; and in Busturia, 35 %. The eucalyptus advances and not always because it is planted by forest owners, it advances because it is an invasive species as I have said, and this is a scientific statement, it is neither political nor an idea. This means, this means, that we have to take into account, we have to take into account, the unanimous statements of the scientific community when we adopt policies, when we adopt policies, in the technical and institutional fields. When I brought this topic up, it was because the Scientific Committee of the Spanish Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species composed of 19 people, 19 scientists and scientists experts in the field, unanimously declared in a report issued on December 1, 2017 that, in fact, each and every eucalyptus variety has an invasive character. And he also said, he recommended including each and every species in the Spanish catalogue of exotic species, and he also recommended extreme caution with new introductions and plantations, as well as carrying out eradication measures, provided that any kind of eucalyptus in our territory is observed naturalization. This was said by the scientific committee under the Ministry of Agriculture. Obviously, obviously, the Ministry of Agriculture at that time in the hands of the People's Party did not heed this recommendation, it did not heed the scientific recommendation of its scientific committee. He ordered a counter-report from a forest engineer, and with that counter-report he dropped the request for the inclusion of eucalyptus in the catalogue of invasive species. But that doesn't end the problem. Denying evidence, and much more denying scientific evidence, does not end the problem. We're seeing it with climate change. Being negators does not lead us to anything, which leads us to something is to listen to scientists and scientists. That same scientific committee made an assessment of the risk of invasion posed by eucalyptus, because all the species analyzed by this scientific committee, an assessment is made measuring from 0 to 29 what is the degree of danger with regard to their ability to invade. Good, because the three main forest species of eucalyptus, from 0 to 29, were qualified with a 26, with a 24 and with a 15. I mean, it's not just that it's an invasive species, it's a very invasive species, so we understand each other. Finally, we have the capacity in Euskadi that gives us our self-government, to decide what we do in forest policy, to decide what we do with an eucalyptus, what we do with a pine tree. We have that capacity, just as the Andalusian Council has it. The Junta de Andalucía, for example, has not only included eucalyptus in the catalogue of invasive species of Andalucia, but is also carrying out disposal activities in priority areas with population control, and with subsequent repopulation with native species. It's done by the Andalusian junta, it's done by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. - as long as they let him stay there. We have the studies and the scientific evidence. We can do other studies. There is an amendment to our motion tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party to which we are not going to oppose further study. But what we're doing is wasting time. The studies, the expert studies are already done long ago, what we are doing is turning around the same topic to do nothing. And as long as we don't change the forest policy in our institutions it will happen as in that short story so famous of Augusto Monterroso that he said something like, "When he woke up, the dinosaur was still there." Today we will vote on our motion. The President has already been told that we are going to allow points to be voted on, because we have been asked to do so by some groups. And possibly this motion will not go ahead. And the important thing is not that this motion comes forward, the important thing is to bring the matter here to Parliament, to become aware of what is happening and then, from there on, we will decide whether or not we are still sleeping. But, as in the story of Monterroso, when we wake up, the eucalyptus will remain there and it will be bigger and bigger. And at one point, perhaps, what makes us wake up is a fire in the coastal area of Bizkaia as it is not known for a long time and then there will be motions here, in this very Parliament, there will be motions calling for measures, asking for forest management plans, asking for plans against fires, when now, today, we have the opportunity to start moving forward. I conclude by saying that the eucalyptus not only causes less diversity, it makes us poorer. It makes us poorer as a society and economically. First, because it's a species whose wood is barely worth anything. It can be worth in Galicia, where they have a trash bin that uses it. Here in Euskadi it's not worth anything. But it also makes us poorer because biodiversity, respect for the environment, is wealth. As long as we do not understand it, as long as we think that economically it is more advantageous to plant two hectares of eucalyptus than to protect two hectares of eucalyptus plantation, then as a society we are doomed to be increasingly poor. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u41	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all again. On 19 October Mr Arriola already explained in the plenary session, through an inquiry, the position of the Basque Government in relation to this matter. It is true that we do not share in 100% what Mr Becerra proposes, but neither do we see it from an almost dramatic point of view what you have told us today. In 2017 there was already an opinion of the scientific committee advising the competent ministry on this matter. Opinion forming part, as you know, of a procedure which concluded with the rejection of the application for the inclusion of eucalyptus in the Spanish catalogue of invasive species. There are different positions, such as that of the general sub-directory of forestry policy of the ministry itself, that of experts who have worked on this subject and, as the adviser himself acknowledged, it is true that the different points of view must be taken into account, but the situation that exists cannot be denied. On the other hand, there are regulations, which are important to follow before drawing up a criterion and making a defence or a criticism of this particular issue. The Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, the Royal Decree of November 2011 regulating the Spanish list and Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species and the Royal Decree 630/2013 of 2 August, which regulates the Spanish Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species. This Royal Decree, as you will know, replaces the previous one that was already annulled in the courts. And we cannot forget Regulation 1143/2014 of the European Union. According to the data of Hazi Fundazioa, the forest inventory of the Basque Country 2017, the eucalyptus are increasing its surface year after year. And that's a reality. They now reach more than 18,000 hectares per year and have increased by 20% between 2011 and 2016. In 2009, the diagnosis of invasive alloctone flora in the autonomous community was published, prepared by botany specialists from the University of the Basque Country. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that there are several sources that consider one or more species of the genus eucalyptus as naturalized invasive exotic species and recommend their inclusion in the Spanish Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species. The opinions of the Scientific Advisory Committee, the Committee of Flora and Wild Fauna, have been pronounced in this regard in 2012 for a kind of specific eucalyptus and in 2017 for all the others. In addition, the EASIN platform, which is the European network of information on exotic species developed by the European Commission, includes 15 eucalyptus species, three of them as high impact species and the rest as low or unknown. But it is true that your initiative was very concrete and although perhaps the need to study the situation, we could agree, not so much on the approach you were taking. With regard to point one of its initiative, we can say that the assessment of the presence of eucalyptus in Euskadi or any other tree species should be a technical question, in the same way that the Scientific Committee of the Ministry dictated the invasive character of different varieties. As I have told you, there is the opinion of the General Forestry Policy Branch of the ministry itself. Different question is their behavior in our territory and their affection for our soils, where the forest exploitation of our forests should be balanced with the environmental balance and our natural heritage. It is true that there is a concern and there are many groups working in the environment, who have a clear opinion that I believe is closer to the one defended by Elkarrekin Podemos, but we also believe that we should not have to make prior value judgments before we have that study, which in our compromise amendment proposed that the two departments concerned, both the environment, biodiversity and the environment, should be made clear, but we also need to take into account the opinion of the Department for Economic Development, because it is responsible for forestry policy. Article 64 of the Spanish Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species of the State Law 42/2007 of 13 December of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, provides, in fact, that the autonomous communities in their respective territorial areas, may establish catalogues of invasive alien species by determining the prohibitions and additional actions that are deemed necessary for their control or eradication. Autonomous communities may include in their own catalogues what they consider necessary in order to prohibit or permit. This creation entails its creation, at least, by legislative decree of the Basque Government. Today, as you all know, the preliminary draft law on the conservation of natural heritage is being processed, which in its article 73 creates a Basque Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species and which will come the moment when we can discuss it. With regard to point 2 of the motion, I would just like to urge that we all be able to count as soon as possible on a law on the conservation of natural heritage, adopted by the Basque Parliament, which also deals with this issue and on which I hope we can all agree. As we have pointed out, there is no scientific consensus either, because there is one party in favour and one party against. What should be addressed is the reality of the condition of the eucalyptus in our territory and the impact on soil and biodiversity, not from the situation of other nearby territories such as Galicia or Portugal, although it can be studied as experiences taken into account, but not from there Euskadi has to make a decision in one direction or another. So, I think this is a topic that I don't know why it gives me that it's not going to be the last time we're going to talk about. It is something that is being worked on in the affected ministry. We have laws that will be able to be dealt with in the Basque Parliament, I hope that in a short space of time and that it will probably have to include something on this subject in some of its articles, and what I believe is that we should all be invited to the debate, to try to agree, because in the end the concern for the environment and for Basque biodiversity is what in the end unites us all. We will therefore vote against Mr Becerra's initiative. It is true that there is a shared point between your original initiative and the transactional amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, but as we are going to maintain our amendment, that is why we will vote against the points you have raised. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u42	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u43	Madam de Table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good noontides. Look, Mr. Becerra, I'm not here to make a martyr for the eucalyptus, because it's not a tree that pleases me especially, but I am going to try to explain why we are against your motion, which basically talks about declaring it exotic and invasive. Although in the original initiative, in that interpellation, you were talking about how you're going to die and you're going to take out thousands of pines, millions of pines, you're going to get the eucalyptus. And, of course, the starting point is wrong. First, we'll see what happens to the pine tree, we'll see what winter happens, what treatments, how the disease evolves, but the pine tree doesn't die from that disease, there's no need to remove it. And the second is why it will necessarily replace it with the eucalyptus when, let's say, the baserritarra That is to say, the starting point of the logic that you are trying to establish is not true, which is something that you normally use a lot, because you also ask for a withdrawal, a preventive killing of the eucalyptus; they like to do the preventive things very much; it does not matter, to the heads of service of Osakidetza, in case we withdraw them preventively, than to the eucalyptus. And no. Look, first we're gonna prove things. Let's wait for what happens to the pine tree, what happens. But you have also come here to explain to us, because one thing is to be exotic and invasive, and the other thing is that environmentally you don't like it or that environmentally it causes damage, are two different things. Because the royal decree that establishes what is the characteristic of invader expresses the subject very well. Because exotic, listen, exotic is and much the eucalyptus, is exotic. We will come back, but we will continue to really contextualize the Basque forest, because no. Of course, you come, use the information in your style and tell me how much percentage there is in Bermeo, in Gatika. Do you know what the mountain, the forest is? In Euskadi it is 55% of the surface of Euskadi, 55%. The fringes of that 55 are 53.5 and conifers are 46.5. 52% of all this is plantations and 48 natural forests. I mean, according to the latest forest inventory, 2016, we have a lot, for me, balanced between conifers, leafy trees, crops and forests. Now, whether it's balanced or not, everyone will have their opinion, logically. In all this magma, the eucalyptus occupies 18,000 hectares, 4.6% of the wooded area of Euskadi, basically concentrated in the coastal area of Bizkaia, in Álava there are only 724, and in Gipuzkoa you know how much? 570 hectares. That's what we have on eucalyptus. Now let's get into the core of the issue you're dealing with, which if it's exotic and invasive. It is exotic, it is, I recognize, confession, as 80% of the flora that surrounds us, Mr Becerra, 80% are exotic. And then we go to invader, exotic is the potato and it's the tomato. The problem is that the decree establishes a mechanism for it to be invader, establishes a mechanism for it to be invader, and the important thing is that it expands outside the environment where it is and the eucalyptus, in addition to being exotic, is cultivation, like that of the potato, the tomato, the kiwi, the sunflower. It's a crop. And there are scientists, there are many more studies in favor of it not expanding that it expands. Look, if you see in the field an eucalyptus out of your plantation, end it, as if you see a potato out of the garden, the same thing, you would be invading exactly the same. The problem is reading the reports biased. Look, there is a very interesting 2011 report from Greenpeace, its basic ideological food in these subjects, which says: "To get closer to the impact of eucalyptus plantations, it is necessary to move away from university and research areas conditioned by paper companies, and the same must be said of eucalyptus detractors". That is, there is passion, there is subjectivity and science is perverting it in many cases and especially in the subject of eucalyptus. It is a problem too ideologically and with a data marsam. I'll give you a piece of information. The famous report that is made from experts to the ministry, there is an expert who says that it is indeed so. I'm going to tell you, in any case, a phrase, they're studying it to be exotic and invasive, and he says, and he says in the sentence, wait for it to look for it: "A species can be considered invasive not only because of its ability to disperse and colonize, but also because of the impact of its presence in natural or semi-natural habitats." With a pair. Let's see, either it's your scattering capacity or it's your environmental impact, both of them can't be. And the decree says he's coming out of the area where he is, from his dispersal. That same author I told you about this report, the following year, with another great expert, do a thorough study of eucalyptus nitens That's why I say that the debate is subjective, we're not going to bring it here, we'll each have our lead scientist and we'll each be able to establish what we want that said, but if we're honest, honest, and we take all the studies and put them together, we're going to have a conflict. Look, if this Parliament had existed 2,500 years ago – which it could have been – and someone raised the possibility of including in the catalogue of invasive species of beech, fagus sylvatica And I guarantee you one thing, it is and a lot, I will not criticize the bee, but it is and a lot, and there are scientific studies that prove it. There is a scientific study by a gentleman, professor of the Autonomous University of Madrid, who is, look, is a biologist and mountain engineer, covering the two possible facets that can be analyzed. And he comes to say: "That the replacement of native forests by eucalyptus implies in the inhibition, in the decomposition of the leaf, an inhibition of 22 % – that is, it decomposes 22 % less than what the natural forest did – while if the replacement in the forest does the beech, the inhibition of the decomposition is 26 %". I can keep this data from this work and continue to fight for that aspect, but it is not, because there will be other data of another tenor. So let's analyze it more serenely, because there's data for everything. And the fires, look, the great forest fires of Euskadi were in December 89. And you know what's been burned? Sea pine. Do you know what is happening, for example, in Valderejo, in San Zadornil, that there was the largest forest of wild pine in Euskadi? Do you know who's killing the wild pine over there? The beech. Why? For there is no cattle; the cattle are gone, they no longer eat the bud of the beech, and the beech is destroying the pine tree. Is he an invader? Yeah. Should we leave him? Well, I'm sure so, too. But forest policy is much more complex than taking a data, taking a feeling and moving it, and I certainly believe that without being the best eucalyptus in the world, it is covering some facets of some mountains to at least have them covered with trees. And without being a great detractor of the eucalyptus, nor a great defender, I think we need to analyze things with more reasoning. What I'm going to tell you and no one's going to change it, is that the eucalyptus is exotic like the first, but I insist just like the potato, but it's no invader at all. Nor will anyone prove that the eucalyptus is an invader. Therefore, the key to what you have originally brought here, we will already have time to talk about other forest aspects, the key that you have brought here, which was to include it in a catalogue of invasive alien species, falls by the very concept of what it is to be invasive, although I will never take it away from you that it is exotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the turns of the teams not running the corrections, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u45	From the People's Group we are going to vote against the initiative put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. The initiative presented in the first point reads as follows: "This House must consider that the presence of eucalyptus in our forests and forest lands alters its biodiversity, productivity, regeneration capacity, vitality, and capacity to meet now and in the future important ecological and social functions". There's nothing there. All of this, like, in a jar, without anesthesia, without contrast data, without references or comparisons, stigmatizing the eucalyptus, and prohibiting, what they like to forbid, really, let them look at it, prohibit it, without a justification, without a data. It refers only to a recommendation made by the scientific committee of the Spanish Catalogue of Exotic and Invasive Species, which states that "recommends to include the different varieties in the catalogue of exotic and invasive species, due to the high risk of invasion by these species, as a result of their biological, physiological and ecological characteristics". This gives Mr Becerra the opportunity to request that the catalogue of alien and invasive species also be created in the autonomous community. The Councillor said so, Mrs Red said, both in November 2011, when the Spanish Catalogue of Exotic Species was created and its regulation is made, a catalogue that was appealed, that there was a court decision and that was annulled, and that a new one was made, in 2013, in which the first catalogue contained two species in the field, in the territory of the Canary Islands, which collected as a potential invader two exotic species of eucalyptus, and in the new catalogue since they do not appear. What appears in the catalogue of exotic and invasive species, are 186 species, in the Basque Country. In the Basque Country, 65 of these species were identified as their own, as they lived here, and were incorporated into the different ones, into the diagnoses that are made in the Government, in our territory, as invasive species. And there's no eucalyptus. The initiative makes no reference to what the European Union adopted in 2014 the Regulation on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of alien and invasive species in 2016. The list of species derived from this regulation was approved and you make no reference. Why do you use the European Union's proposal as the main objective of policy? And you're not interested in this case? Are you not interested in what the European Union says in this case? Surprise. I'm surprised. If the eucalyptus does not appear as an invasive species in the European list of invasive species, nor in the Spanish catalogue, why does it have to appear in the Basque catalogue? Why? What's the point? He doesn't give us an argument. We are surprised that they exclude the criteria of the European Union. There is one thing about that committee that you use as the lead document for this initiative, where it is said, at its end: "It is recommended to extreme caution with new introductions and plantations. Local monitoring and eradication measures are recommended before the invasion occurs, provided naturalization is observed." If naturalization is not observed, everything the committee has said is not valid. And as Mr Tellería has said, this, for today, has not been proven. Therefore, what the committee says only makes sense if naturalization is observed, if it has been adapted, if it reproduces in the same space. Therefore, in our territory there is no such danger, nor anywhere else, and as Mr Telleria has said, there is no study today, nor in Portugal, which has been done many times and here, Portugal, with scientists from both governments and both territories, has not been made any report that says that there is naturalisation. Therefore, what the committee says is used perversely by you to generate a story as you always do, then make a series of slogans around that story and advertise it, and in that we are, in advertising what you have already reproduced in other places like Galicia and the cantabrian cornice, and now it has arrived here. That is the aim of the initiative, the eucalyptus they care about a cumin, a cumin, because the story is totally perverted and the committee report says it at its end, we have to reach the end, and it says: "All this makes sense if naturalization is observed, therefore, if today there is no report that demonstrates naturalization, what the committee report says makes little sense, is there but nothing else, does not justify what you have brought here. And why? Because the seeds of the eucalyptus have low weight, are small and have low ability to disperse, they are arguments that support the difficulty that this species and the genus has to naturalize, and this is what determines the invasive character, and this is what the committee says in a veiled way, it is true, but it says it in the end. As I was saying, it is only possible on soils with a total absence of plant competition and with an uncovered mineral layer that gives it light; that is, the naturalization of the species would only thrive on a bare ground, with the mineral horizon on the surface and in full light. It can be said that the species lacks the capacity to naturalize and without this capacity, as the committee says, it is difficult to impute to it the invasive character. So, Mr. Becerra, we're on it. He was talking about the raisin and it's true and Mr. Telleria has also said it, the raisin that generates the eucalyptus is of poor quality, but the one produced by the beech trees, some say it is much worse. And look, we have 54,619 hectares of beech and 18,194 hectares of eucalyptus and he has not worried about the beech, he has worried about the eucalyptus. Why? Because we are in the account of the eucalyptus, we are not in the account of the beech, it does not touch, but surely it has or causes as much damage to biodiversity as the one caused by the eucalyptus, sure. There is a story and you will know it, mention Leopoldo Alas Clarin in "La Regenta" to the eucalyptus, already existed, already existed years ago and we are not full of eucalyptus, already existed long ago. And you will know in Lugo, which are famous the eucalyptus of the Souto da Retorta, in Chavín, which occupy three hectares, reach 80 meters of height. The six oldest trees were planted between 1884 and 1885 by a Catalan businessman settled in Chavín in order to avoid the erosion of the margins, the erosion of the Landro River, to drain the land, look, contrary to the argument that you have told us, to dry the land, to hear that no, look for what they planted them and that they are not from yesterday, that they have been for a century or more. Therefore, Mr Becerra, I believe you are in that, in the account of how to generate a state of mind in a percentage of society and stir it up. As for the amendment tabled by the Government groups, I am surprised by the amendment. On the one hand, he tells me that the next laws that the government is going to draw up are going to bring me no idea what goodness and that they are going to fix the world for me; for Mrs.Red faith asks me and I do not grant her faith. Then, on the second point, we are told that Parliament urges the departments to carry out a scientific and technical study, which I assessed the situation of the eucalyptus. Man, I'd like you to take it to the scientific community, not the departments. I believe that the scientific community will have much more competence to make a scientific report. And then he says, the third, that's very interesting. It urges the Basque Government to work with the other competent institutions to promote the most appropriate environmental policies for the protection of our territory and biodiversity. Two years of government and it seems that you must continue to insist on your leaders who have not had to realize that you are, that you have assumed that position for that, to work, to work with the competent institutions. To work on the promotion of environmental policies that are appropriate and that are for the benefit and protection of our territory and our biodiversity. Two years of government and they have to keep insisting on this. Do you have to keep insisting on this? Well, they're giving me a little pain, actually. Look, some people wonder, some people wonder, what could we do? A Galician said what can we do? What do we do with the low-rise camellia tree coming from China? What do we do with the japan clam that covers the brooks? What do we do with our wines that are macerated in French oak barrels? What do we do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u46	Please go to the end. What do we do with the Frisian cow that moved the Galician blonde? What do we do with all those varieties, races, that have come from outside? What do we do with them, Mr. Becerra? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u48	Yes, good morning, and thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Mountains up, mountains down, pines up, pines down, eucalyptus can't say that, only eucalyptus. Elevation, I'd say. The famous red and brown band, which is suffering from pines, seems to have triggered alarms about other species. Not only have alarms been activated, risks have also been activated, but also business opportunities and opportunities. But it has not been until the diseases in the pine trees have directly affected us, when the alarms have been activated and we have been afraid. We have been afraid not only of what we are suffering, but of what is to come. But I want to take a photo, a color photo; I hope the photo doesn't look like Galicia and Portugal. The photo is very simple, the color is striped, red and brown. The economics in red numbers. And politics, for the truth neither black nor white. I'd say gray. A photograph in red and brown as a result of the famous pine disease, which we are not able to give a solution, because it lacks a serious plan, lacks means and even now there is no guarantee that the treatments planned for spring, those of fumigating, will serve anything. An economic photograph, as I said in red numbers, just because it has been profitable for years, today is only a ruin. And a grey political photograph, because the different administrations have been and are unable to give an effective solution with full guarantees, not only to the health of the pine trees, but also to the health of the people, of the aquifers, of the mountains. They are unable to give a solution to a sector of great economic importance, indeed, we saw it here last Friday, but they still do not give an effective response to the management of the mountains and the sector with great economic weight in this society, do they not? But this is nothing more than a consequence of a model, a model of forest policy, aimed only at getting profitability out of the mountains. And for years it has been achieved. It's true. But it comes at a time when economic profitability itself ceases to be. It's no good for pines to be worth money, it's no good for eucalyptus to be worth money, it's no good for eucalyptus to be worth money, it's no good for eucalyptus to be worth money, it's no good, in a few years we can see the bare mountains, without trees and then the social, environmental and economic profitability will surely be late and we'll have loaded it. The evolution of eucalyptus plantations to replace pines is even dangerous and will end up being dramatic, despite what we have heard here today in the morning, if we do not put in place means to stop it or at least not push it forward. Dramatic is also the nearby forest policy, I would even say that of some nearby administrations proposing to replace sick pine plants, Mr Telleria, I think I am not saying anything new, by eucalyptus. And not only do they propose, but they also encourage them. We are going to make a consensual forestry policy, what less, respectful, it cannot be otherwise, as they say, and cautious. Today we are talking about a species that is going to create, which in fact creates damage in the Basque natural environment, but not just in the Basque. It is shown that these intensive plantations are harmful worldwide; and let us not forget the fires of Galicia, Portugal... It's proven that eucalyptus plantations are harmful, soil-dried, that's not what I'm saying, great consumption and loss of organic matter in soils, propensity to fires, loss of biodiversity in fauna, flora... A very short cycle crop, yes, very short, but economically also very tasty, because beyond the fact that eucalyptus are profitable, we have to look for a social and environmental profitability as well, and today neither one thing nor the other. The creation of the Catalogue of Exotic and Invasive Species, we understand that it is necessary, it is more, in its proposals, it is included in both, but we understand that it has to be preceded by a thorough and formal analysis, because here those who truly are invaders are not all species, well yes, we have a particularly invasive species that is the human species. I don't know if exotic, exotic not so much, but invasive. People who for economic interests invade, plan, make and implement unsustainable policies, that we are seeing, that put the mountains, but not just the mountains, at risk everything that surrounds the mountains. These people are the truly invading ones. Someone in this House has forgotten to look north, look toward the cantabrian cornice and what we have, and that is what we expect as we do not put urgent measures. We also know the causes, we could name a few of what awaits us and the causes of the mismanagement of the mountain is simple, lack of livestock, we have just heard it, indeed, but because a primary and livestock sector is disappearing. Depopulation, the rural environment is empty. Inadequate and short-term management of administrations, agroforestry policies, which I have just said, would even say alone, inefficient forest policies. And the property of the mountains, let's see the difference between Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Araba, there is an important difference and I believe that well-managed public mountains ensure that there are people involved in that management and that not all private interest seeks economic benefit. But let's go to the main, looking for profitability, I would say that even clientelism, above environmental and social interests. And it's time to turn the script around, let's make a prediction, we're willing to work, but we're also going to put in means. Above the table there is no means, there are no deadlines and, of course, the technical and human tools with companies hanging from the government are not bearing fruit. From EH Bildu we agree to launch the administrative procedure to create this catalogue of exotic and invasive species. We think it is important to do the study that evaluates the situation of the eucalyptus, but an independent study. We are not saying that professionals working for the Government and departments are not professionals, but always independent will ensure that all positions are taken into account. We also agree to include those forest species that meet the requirements to be included, of course, but we understand that in order for this to be true, we need to set deadlines, if we are not used to presenting motions, proposals, which then remain a little in the drawers and it seems that no one is interested in taking them out. And I say more. I am going to put forward one that I have not tabled an amendment, but it has now occurred to me as I listened to the previous speeches. We would agree to propose a moratorium, a moratorium on the planting of eucalyptus until we know the results of the studies and where we are going in this forestry policy. I'm gonna finish it. We certainly question the agroforestry model, it makes water now and of course we will try to change it. But today's surprise has come when in two virtually similar motions, two proposals on which whole points coincide, you will not be able to reach an agreement, a compromise amendment. That does surprise us. I'm not going to intervene in the replica, I've been brief, I think I've fulfilled the two things that everyone says around here and then nobody does. We are going to vote for points, I ask Mr Becerra to allow us to vote for points, and I understand that it would be a good agreement to come together, because the mountains, the rural environment and also the peoples deserve, especially the sector too, it deserves us here to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u49	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Passing on the answer shift, Bea doesn't have to say a word. The Basque Socialist, Mrs Rojo, must not speak a word. Not Mr. Tellegio. Not even Mrs. López de Ocarariz. Mrs. Lopez de Lariyabe, Eva, how do you want the vote? [[Berber]] The third is apart, and all the others are together. Okay. Enough. Yeah? Is it spot? How do you want it? [[Berber]] Two and three, one separate and two and three. And you're talking to them too? Then we'll do it one by one. One by one, the group. (Words Well, since the discussion's over, we'll vote first, the original text of Mr Carollo's motion. We vote for points first, second and fourth points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 71; the contrary, 28; 43; the white, 0; the abstainations 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u50	So, two and four points have not been accepted. Now, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the 7th, the 10th; the contrary, 43; the white, 0; the Absencesion, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u51	So the third point is not accepted. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Sociists and Eucabertists. We'll vote for it, one by one, because yours, well, if there's no problem? No. Okay, we vote separately. First point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the opponents, 63; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u52	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of 52; contrary to 0; white, 0; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u53	So the second point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of 52; contrary to 0; white, 0; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u54	So the third point is accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition, as the Parlamentary P.P.P.I.P.P.I.P. and biosymic plans. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula, has the word to present and to take off the initiative. (Word
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, we are at the last point of the last plenary of the year and we are going to reign the Christmas spirit and we are going to reach an agreement on a very important issue, which is to talk about generic medicines and biosimilars, and talk about their potential and their plans for the future. Of course, I'm not going to run out of time, much less. I'll be brief. And it is that already a year ago we were talking about important, innovative issues, in relation to health, in relation to medicine. We were talking about precision medicine, with personalized medicine, genomic medicine, in relation to that area of future that it is going to have. Yesterday we were also talking about that, and yesterday, in fact, the Oncological Plan was presented here for the next few years and that neither was it strictly talking about drugs or drugs, but also on those two issues, in the development of that personalized medicine, precision medicine and the Oncological Plan itself, the pharmacy and, of course, drugs are and will be essential. Moreover, without going any further, there are the agreements and actions of scientific societies, medical societies and hospital pharmacies, in relation to the importance it has to continue to enhance, to continue to report mainly on the use of medicines. Generics are much better known to us, but biosimilars are something that needs to be further enhanced, about what needs to be further informed, and about what needs to be strategically acted upon. That is why we asked that it is necessary to look for measures that enhance the use of generics and as well as the use of biosimilars. And that is why we understood that the pharmacy commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System should draw up, or be drawn up within that framework or to whom a strategic plan corresponds. We were talking about a strategic plan. Well, then there could be two, but where generic and biosimilar drugs were included to improve the system, looking for tools that enhance and improve the quality of care and competition in the sector. Today, as far as the compromise amendment has been concerned, the Basque Government is also talking about two strategic plans, one for each type of medicine. Well, there's the debate, which may be fine. The issue is, what's important and what's necessary is this strategic action on these two types of medicines that have...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u57	The important thing is the strategic action on these two types of medicines, which have been to revolutionize health care and the promotion of health among the population and the fight against the disease. That's the important thing. Generic medicines have demonstrated over the past 20 years their contribution to the sustainability of health systems. Also in the future, no doubt, similar medicines, in addition to generic medicines, will contribute. But the challenges that threaten our health system are also increasingly important: the ageing of the population, the chronicity of pathologies, the increase in the prices of biological medicines, of health technologies, situations that cause daily, constantly, an increase in health expenditure. For this reason, we must bet on those tools – generic, biosimilar medicines... – that favor the sustainability of health organization and, without a doubt, one of the tools are generic and biosimilar medicines, so it is essential at this time to continue to promote this type of medicine. And the potential that both groups of medicines have must be harnessed and the sector must be provided with a stability framework that gives them legal certainty. That is why we are talking about the need to act legally, politically, professionally in relation to that drafting of a strategic plan or strategic plans in relation to them. And these strategic plans must, of course, include a series of measures involving, logically, scientific societies, health professionals, the pharmaceutical industry...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u58	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u59	Of the autonomous communities and also, of course, of the patients. We put forward a non-law proposal that spoke of a plan. We have come through, I thank the parliamentary groups for their contributions, their contributions by amendment of the whole or by amendment of addition, as the Elkarrekin Podemos Group has done, and we have reached an agreement. And I mean, explain very briefly what a biosimilar medicine is. That is, very briefly: According to the European Medicines Agency, a biosimilar medicinal product is a biological medicinal product that is developed to be similar to a biological medicinal product already marketed, i.e. the reference medicinal product whose patent has expired. The active substance in a biosimilar and its reference medicinal product is essentially the biological substance, although there may be slight differences between them due to the complexity of its nature and the modes of production. As in the reference medicinal product, biosimilars have a degree of natural variability and the European Medicines Agency applies strict criteria in the evaluation of studies comparing the quality, efficacy and safety of these medicinal products, and are authorised where variability and differences in relation to the reference medicinal product have been shown to affect neither the quality, safety nor efficacy of these medicinal products. That is, it has to be perfectly marked, the drug surveillance and surveillance on these medicines is absolute, the development, on the other hand, of biosimilars increases the supply, creating competition between medicines...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u60	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u61	And, of course, we have to say that they are perfectly included already in what is the road map of action, of medical action, of health action. The big question: Are biosimilars as safe as reference drugs, with the guarantees with which they are working? If, and that is the fundamental element, not, therefore, all biological, biosimilar or reference medicinal products must be prescribed by brand, in order to ensure traceability, i.e. for such surveillance in relation to the medicinal product. And that is the fundamental element, that is, we are talking about an instrument of the future; we are talking about an instrument that will work as current medicines and that will reduce costs in relation to what is a tremendous cost in public health, in health, which is pharmacy and medicines. And I say again that this issue is supported by societies, medical societies, pharmaceutical societies, without going further, the Spanish Society of Hematology and Hemotherapy, together with the Spanish Society of Oncology, because they have spoken and made a bet in that regard. Well, then, we have reached a compromise amendment, that is, we already know that in other forums there is a debate on whether there should be a strategic plan or there should be two, or it should be one on generics, because still that of biosimilars is not very clear what needs to be done or what needs to be done, well. The point is that we understand that there must also be a strategic plan for biosimilars and we have adopted a compromise amendment, which reads: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government's Health Department to continue to support the pharmacy commission", we know it is doing so. It is good to make this reference, however, because it is necessary to bring an impulse of these characteristics to the Interterritorial Council, to continue to support the pharmacy commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, together with the autonomous communities – that is clear – of a strategic plan to boost generic medicines, that seems to be under way, but what we do have to say is that, as well as a strategic plan to boost similar medicines, for their approval in the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. As a result of the amendments, we have accepted and, of course, absolutely included, as Mr Uria's amendment talking about professionals and information, and it is key in this strategic plan and in this action. And so, then, we say that we also consider that these strategic plans should include specific actions of information, updating and comparative criteria on their use directed at whom? the doctors of the health system, also those who develop their work activity in primary health care, for their knowledge, and, fundamentally, of course, those who do so in the hospital environment. That is the compromise amendment. I thank the groups again. I think we're reaching a good deal. We will give an impetus, transferring this initiative to the Basque Government, because it will be the Basque Government, but also to the Interterritorial Council, to see that we are also concerned about these issues, which are elements of the future, after having addressed debates or proposals or plans, such as the one we discussed yesterday in the Health Commission in relation to the Oncological Plan for the coming years, or the one we addressed a year ago with genomic medicine, precision medicine, personalized medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Please don't be quiet right now, Congressman, please. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Podemos, Monsieur Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u63	Barkatxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuak, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. Very brief, I'm going out without papers because there are three things to say and there are already the pinchos made. The first question, Elkarrekin We can approve, support and welcome Parliamentarian Barrio's proposal that there be a strategic plan on generic medicines and a strategic plan on biosimilars by the National Council for Medicinal Products, that the Interterritorial Council approve it and that Osakidetza implement it. That said, three ideas. All the pharmaceutical companies are birds of prey that only seek to increase the salaries of the members of the board of directors of their multinationals, and they are behind us all and we, parliamentarians, politicians, leaders, members of the National Medicines Agency... Therefore, this proposal, which is correct as it is proposed, must be careful and come out of the macabre and perverse world of the influence of pharmaceutical multinationals who, as you well know, cannot even imagine how they camp their wide in these matters. Second idea. Those who prescribe it are the doctors and doctors of the system, so I am especially grateful to Parliamentarian Barrio for introducing this transitional amendment. One thing is their authorization, another is their encouragement by the National Medicines Agency, by the Interterritorial Council and by Osakidetza at the time. But another thing is the prescription of doctors and doctors in our system, who do not yet have information about biosimilars, trust, updated training and incentives for their use. We believe that it is essential that the strategic design of this plan takes into account the doctors and doctors of the system so that they are updated in the use fundamentally of biosimilars, which certainly introduce competition and price lowering processes when entering the market, which we are going to expect and see. Between 20 and 40% of the eight biosimilars most commonly used in some of the studies we know have fallen in prices. And third and final idea, in the process of information, training, authorization and incentives of our professionals in Osakidetza or in the whole health system, fundamentally hospitable, must not enter part the pharmaceutical multinationals that all pervert it. The Public Administration and our leaders, who have top qualified leaders in the Department of Health, in Osakidetza and in the General Directorate of Pharmacy in particular, must take on the challenge of informing, training, updating and incentivizing the use of generics and the use of biosimilars to our professionals. Just count on our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u65	Thank you, President again. After the intervention of Mr Barrio and Mr Uria, the truth is that little remains to be explained in what has to do with biosimilar medicines and generic medicines. This debate has already taken place in Madrid, I believe, on two occasions in the Senate. I believe that the parliamentary groups present here are defending the same thing that our colleagues in that House at the time defended. Taking into account the pharmaceutical policy strategy and the mechanisms to achieve savings and efficiency, and thus to be able to have funds for all kinds of services, we believe that this is essential in terms of the approach that Mr Barrio has made to us. The strategy around biosimilars, we understand, must meet two requirements, that of quality and efficiency, but it seems important to us what Mr Uria proposed, in what has to do with the will of professionals, in addition to training, and in this way they are encouraged to be able to prescribe them. But we cannot also forget the acceptability of patients in what has to do with these medicines. The opinion of the plenary of the Interterritorial Council and the Standing Committee on Pharmacy is important and of course, in this case and in this Basque Parliament, Osakidetza's opinion, so that we can then implement the plans that we are going to adopt today through the compromise amendment. With regard to this issue, as I said earlier, the Socialists expressed in Madrid a position that came from health amendments and from specific General State Budgets, which were those of the year 2016. We therefore consider it important, on the one hand, to draw up a strategic plan for the promotion of generic medicines, and, on the other hand, to draw up a strategic plan for the promotion of biosimilar medicines. We believe that this is an important issue, that it is a topic of silence for professionals, for patients, and that we believe that it will also result in the economy of what has to do with pharmaceutical policy and, as I say, it will be possible to use these funds for other types of services. Therefore, I think nothing more to add. To congratulate us on the agreement reached and nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u66	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Well, as has been said, the challenges facing the health system are increasing, with an increasingly ageing population, an increasing chronicity, increasingly complex and sophisticated health technologies, a reality that undoubtedly requires action-oriented steps to contribute to the sustainability of the system, such as effective intervention or action in the promotion and promotion of generic and biosimilar medicines. Nor can we make it clear that one of the biggest determinants of health spending is pharmacy. The question of genetics and bio-organizations is important as the factor of the stability of the public health system. Because of its positive influence on the configuration and management of the pharmaceutical market, but also because it has an impact on greater accessibility for patients to treatments, as the promotion of these drugs also results in greater alternatives to available treatments and enables access to new biological therapies. We therefore very much believe that the development of specific strategies to promote the use of these medicines should be enhanced. Especially at a time like the present, when generic medicines... Well, as far as generic medicines are concerned, there is a certain brake on their use. And with regard to biosimilars, well, although they have been on the market for a decade now, it is also true that their use is not so widespread, so established at levels that can be understood as acceptable. And in this sense we understand that there is certainly an important margin for improvement, and that is why, as I have said, we share the desirability that, within the framework of a general planning of pharmaceutical policy, there should be progress in putting forward strategies in active policies to promote their use and to promote adequate information and knowledge about these medicines. We understand that it is more effective to develop specific policies for each of them, because the actions that should be articulated in their case, the strategies for their encouragement, will be different by the very nature of these medicines and by the different experience of their use. As has been explained, bioantic medicine and generic medicine have different characteristics. That's why they need a few tests and different ratings. We are therefore faced with two different realities, there is a great difference in their process of elaboration, in the cost of their development, in how they are used and even in their scope of action. And we believe that these differences need to be taken into account, because they are going to affect, as I have said, the type of actions that would have to be developed to enhance their use, and that is why we understand that this justifies from our point of view the desirability of two different plans being made; because we believe that in this way they will be better ensured in addition to their effectiveness. And in this line there is also the Department of Health of the Basque Government, which has always promoted the use of both generic and biosimilar medicines, and in those forums in which it participates it has always advocated the development of strategies for their impulse. It is precisely in this respect that we have agreed on a compromise amendment, which will also be unanimously supported by all the groups, so I would also like to thank the agreement. For my part, that's all. If you take advantage to wish all of you great parties. Gabon zoriontsuak izan. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u68	Thank you, Miss Otalora. A group that hasn't announced any correction, EH Collect, Mrs. Blanco is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u69	With your permission from the seat, Mrs. President. The representative of the proposed team has explained the initiative well enough, so I will not extend on this point, and we agree with the original text. The only thing that we don't like is the frame, because we don't have our own frame here, it's the National System Council, and we'd like to have a frame of our own, but that can't be corrected by a unfortunately correction, so we didn't describe it. And we also believe that the original text improves through medium, so we'll protect it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Is someone on the second shift willing to participate? [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque populars, the Basque Socialists, the half-direction that has been signed together by Podemos and Euzbertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-20.u71	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It will be at two-fifteen, and I wish you all a happy Christmas. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-one.
