ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u0	Osoko-bilkurari hasiera emango diogo. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, a distant confession made by the Eubertarians of the Oenangies to the Cultural and the Chief of Policy Language, as to the project of the Digital National Library." Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. In the Jeltzan Party, we plan four main companies of culture. In addition to the creative Euracdi and the Greek reference, the living memory of Euskade, which belongs to culture, to museums, and to the beautiful books, and in this sphere of the indirect character of the digital Euskade, our creative nets and institutions insist on starting to the digital epoch, which is the privilege of the citizens in their availability, and also of the objects of men. To preserve and organize the benefits, especially the inheritances, the texts, the music, the hearing or the images, and always supporting the availability of users, that is to say, what can be done in the 21st century? a library of the century. From this Illust, on the 22nd of March, the Department of Cultural and Language presented a code of cooperation with the Sancho el Saubia Foundation, to establish the foundations of the future digital national euphora library. Together with members of the Vital Foundation's organization, you were the head physician and deputy department and, as you said, this agreement will allow the first digital selection to be formed. That's 20. 21. By providing the three thousand centuries of Basque books with digital books, the digital national library project will take its first step. In the first act of legislation you emphasized the importance of this plan, and we are beginning to see it, and we see that this complex plan is gradually progressing. For all that reason, we'd like to ask you this today, Mr. Zpiria chief: What is it to the euscal culture, considering the formation of the digital national library, of the companions who have been chosen to accomplish this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Fellow governments, members of the legislature, far away, Sire. As soon as we started legalizing, the principal goals of our department were introduced, we presented the commitment to accomplish the project of the digital national euskal library. Euscal culture requires and deserves this project just as other major languages and cultures have and possess it. It must be a project based on reality, for the establishments which have preceded it could not be a dysplic, and the concept of euscal culture must be regarded in the most comprehensive and global form. In the land inhabited by the Basque culture there are great libraries composed of centuries. It makes no sense, therefore, in our view, to create another library that struggles with them, and will compete with them, it must be their complement, and it must have the added value. Even in the contents it must be large, it must be capable of euskal. It has been the object of national libraries throughout history to collect, to preserve, and to extend the bibliographic inheritance of a people in case. Special collections, single specimens, bibliographic treasures, and many different kinds of funds have been collected. That power is already in our main libraries, and now it's missing to have a hat on that system. This aim is the digital national eupcal library, the work which the Basque authors have left in history, and which will gather up thought. He wants to be a digital library of the century. The wide medium of our culture, which collects the works of the Goldavitha and Axular and Archangea, but also the one of the songs of Lâda and Maider Łódź or the singing Agarga or the Star. I have mentioned artists of very different ages and different disciplines, and it is that we want this Basque national digital library, which starts from a broad concept and incorporates the work of Basque artists, of varied disciplines, both the content for reading, as well as art, music or audiovisual. It is, therefore, almost a media library and has a great complexity. It is not a physical building, but it must also be built. And we want to build it in a shared way. The Sancho el Sabio Foundation will help us build the foundations of this digital library, contributing a first selection of around 3,000 Basque digital books from the 20th and 21st centuries. It will also be essential to have the collaboration of outlaws and other reference agents in the Basque culture world, such as ERESBIL, in addressing the musical heritage, and the Basque Film Library, in terms of cinematic creation. It is also important to establish clearly the criteria that should guide the preparation of the basic bibliography of Basque culture, which, as I said, in our opinion, should be ambitious, open and flexible. We believe that the works chosen for this bibliography must meet one of the following conditions. First, works created or disseminated in Basque. Two works created by authors born or resident in the Basque Country. Three, works thematically linked to Basque themes wherever they have been published. And four, in general, works published in Vasconia. Difficulty is our intention, to start this new portal, to end the legislation Before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the Congressmen of the World Series to the President, concerning the General Presidency of the State." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. Your party has protected the Spanish Prejugations. I told you these were bad budgets a few weeks ago. I told you you were giving oxygen to the largest part of Europe, and it's a witness to the sentence of the Red Ark of the Party, or to look at the first page of the newspapers today. But again, you saved him. Along with Ciudadanos and UPN. In this political situation, where Mariano Rajoy has torn away the power that President of Catalonia has to name his counselors. In this situation, Mr. Urkullu, do you think it's reasonable to protect the Spanish government by protecting its budget? I saw you on TV last night saying that you're the only interests of this town. What country interests, Mr. Urkullu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Irriart, accepting budgets is the decision of the Jestral Party, and I'm sure that this decision has been taken from responsibility, after having been carefully discussed and disputed, by Euscidi's interest above all other interests, and in Catalonia. 155. To force the article to be revoked in a short time period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u9	Mr. Urkullu, Araba, Bizia, and the majority of the Gipus are not protected by the interests of the people, and in this Parliament we saw yesterday. But before this Parliament gave you that word yesterday, you knew exactly what each of us thought. So I don't know if Euskadi's interest is going to give him a little preference. You didn't keep your word. You've acted undeservedly, Mr. Lehendakari. Pudor, that means honesty. They have not been honest and the retaliation of excuses that they have put on the table certainly produce indignation. They're bad budgets, because they're bringing more restrictions, because they're less social protection because they're supplying the Crown and the Army with money. They have used, and I say use, the demands of a group with great difficulties in making a dignified life, such as pensioners and pensioners, without indecentness, regardless of whether this agreement is not a structural agreement, or a patch. But tomorrow you will be able to see in the streets of Euskal Herria, thousands of pensioners who are against that agreement. And they are also trying to sell us that the CAPV will receive investments worth 500 million euros. Mr Urkullu, tell me why this year yes, when last year we have not received a quarter. Why is it this year? What are the guarantees so that this year we can say that this is going to be so? "Pudor," Urkullu yellow. Esan zenuten 155a darrean zegoen bitartean ez zenutela ez negotiatuko eta ez onartuko aurrekonturik. And they have negotiated and voted with 155 in force, while the formation of the government in Catalonia is prevented. This week I heard Mr. Torra say that the Basques are on their word, that he trusted the PNV, you have to ask him what he thinks now. Look, Spain is the country where the recipe is submission. Be submissive to the imposition of the State and everything will be fine, not name the councillor That you decide because if the state doesn't like it, it won't be able to be a counselor, either in Catalonia or anywhere. You know that 155 will be able to rise and apply at discretion, which is a new framework, and you do know that, Mr Urkullu. And don't tell us that if not, you were going to advance the elections and you want to block the way for Citizens, because if Citizens wanted there to be elections, they wouldn't have voted in favour of these Budgets. Don't come in here saying that these budgets are good because U.N.'s deal with Rajoyer in the prisoner's case. In fact, President Barkos and you have been ashamed of the budget against freedom and democracy. And there was an alternative, to say no, Mr. Urkullu. "Decir que no a estos presupustos." No a la corruption, no al recorte de los derechos de los más desfavorecdos, no al recorte de las lbertades. "La alternativa era decir no, señor Urkullu."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, as president, and as far as the Basque People are concerned, I answer from this point of view. One, obviously the budget is positive for the Basques and the Basque People. First of all, Mrs. Irrie is a guarantee of your recent investments and aids, ma'am. Now, in total, 540 million US investments are obtained and positive achievements for Loola, Pastia, Foronda's airports, industry, technology, and innovations, support for culture and environmental projects, high speed for Gastes, Bilors, and Donostians. Two, the budget is positive for decent pensions. Yes, because the pensions will come up the same way as you agreed on your vote in March 1. And three, the budget is positive to maintain equality, because the friendships will receive over 120 million dollars, and it is clear that the budget will be positive to promote stability, so that the economic development and investment will continue to refresh and create employment. You, Mrs Iriarte, are full of mouth against 155, but yesterday you agreed to delete that article from the motion you approved, adding your votes to a party that does support 155 and for which you have constantly criticized me. Is it consistent with you? Is the attitude of your parliamentary group consistent? Well, look...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u12	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u13	... You criticize the PNV for supporting budgets, but you say there was another alternative. I ask you, was there another budget alternative on the table? I remind you that the only alternative was the non-agreement, and probably the non-government, probably the non-government, and this is certainly negative for the Basque agenda,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u15	... pensioners, recovery, investment and self-government, the self-government by which this Parliament also took over the current Spanish Government so that within six months it could put on the table a plan to complete the Statute of Autonomy. Self-government with this Spanish Government. Look, the alternative to the deal was more confrontation, instability, tensions and probably elections, Mrs Iriarte. The alternative was, of course, Article 155 sine die, This decision does not give PP's government any white checks. On the contrary, this decision allows the possibility of a solution to Catalonia, beginning at Catalonia itself. Thanks to this decision, Catalonia maintains the ability to solve direct interview solutions. Without previous assurance, without stability, all the doors were closed. And if you like, Catalonia and what happened in Catalonia and what we've done and what we've done, we can talk about it in person some other day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Podemos team made to the president about the mutations of pensioners." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u17	Good morning, Mr. President. On May 7th...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u18	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u19	... different pensioner groups in Euskadi asked you at a press conference, Mr Urkullu, to attend the demonstrations convened tomorrow, Saturday 26 May, in favor of decent pensions. Mr. President, are you going to the march tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, as a lehendakari, I do not participate in concentrations or mobilizations that are not convened or co-participated in your call by the Basque Government. Our responsibility is to work towards possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u23	For I regret your position, lehendakari, because that in the end proves that you will prefer to mark yourself a Rajoy and look elsewhere with this question. Look, two weeks ago we discussed this and you called us opportunists. But what we have seen in these past weeks is that his party, first, quoted the pensioner collectives in Sabin Etxea to see if they could silence them; then, they agreed on the State General Budgets against the double-approved criterion of this Parliament; and then, moreover, they betrayed the demands of thousands of Basques and Basques who cry out for decent pensions, as they are going to do tomorrow. I think you, your party, are giving us a masterful lesson in how to practice the wildest opportunism. You have spoken – and you have spoken right now too – of responsibility in agreeing budgets with Rajoy almost the same day that the People's Party is condemned for corruption. They are no longer informal or periodic accusations, they are sentences. Is it responsible, lehendakari, to keep in the government a party condemned, literally, for profiting from stealing public money? Is that really responsible? But even more, is that good for Euskadi? Is it really good for Euskadi that Europe's most corrupt government remains in power? Really? His party, the PNV, yesterday betrayed the majority of this country, the majority of Euskadi, by approving Rajoy's budgets of shame. The budgets of shame for the pensioner Really, lehendakari, when you just spoke – you spoke yesterday – and reaffirmed yourself in the good things that were the Budgets for Euskadi, did it not take into account the 30,000 domestic workers in Euskadi who, thanks to you, today will have worse retirement conditions? That one of the most precarious groups, with the worst conditions, with the greatest difficulties, be one of the victims of their pacts with the PP says everything about their lack of ethics. So, again, I wonder if you change your mind, lehendakari jauna, will you go out on the street tomorrow and also look at the face of those 30,000 domestic workers who are going to see their retirement conditions worsen? And are you going to tell them how good the budgets your party has approved are? Is this lehendakari up to what the Basque pensioners ask? Will the lehendakari have the courage to go to tomorrow's demonstration in favor of decent pensions? Or will the lehendakari lack the dignity that is left over from routing the majority of the elderly in this country? Do we have a lehendakari who listens to Basque citizenship or one who marks a Rajoy and passes it? That's the question today. That is today the question that tens of thousands of Basques and Basques asked him and who are waiting for an answer. And today you have preferred to drain the lump. He has preferred to sell patches, as he has done before, rather than look at the wound that his pacts cause from his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u24	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I do not know if what you applauded on your bench is the accusation of a lack of ethics and a lack of dignity on which you referred to me. In any case, I'll answer you. I told you two weeks ago I won't be in the march. I told you two weeks ago. And on this subject, I want to ask you again for realism, honesty, and responsibility. As you know, the pensions are not among the hands of the Eukongy; and two, they need realism and generous consent to be effective and lasting. Effective and persistent. And these matters have their own proper place: The Spanish Government and the Courts, on the one hand, and the Testament of Toledo, on the other. And your party, Unidos Podemus, also, has what is said and done in these two regions, your party. So I'd like to show all respect to the pensioners. But this question is to be placed within its sphere, and to be considered and concluded with the depth it deserves. It's a key for constancy, Mr Martínnez. Look, I will tell you what the Basque Government has done and is doing on this issue. First, to work towards full compliance with the agreement of 1 March of this Parliament, an agreement which you promoted, defended and approved, but which, now that it has been achieved, has become critical and considered insufficient. Secondly, the Basque administrations, within the framework of our competences, prioritize the social protection system, providing comprehensive support to pensioners: social and health care, housing supplement, emergency aid, residences, transport, dependency, pharmaceutical co-op... And we do it with full conviction. Euskadi's social commitment is unparalleled and, of course, you have not matched it where you have been able to do so. Thirdly, the Basque Government, despite its lack of competence, supplements the income of pensioners with more needs. One in four persons receiving income guarantee income is a pensioner. We have allocated 46 million to this objective, which is not known in any other community. An effort, I insist, of the whole Basque society, despite not having the competition. Fourthly, we continue to call for the management of the economic system of social security. This is what the Basque Government does. Can you tell me what you're doing? I'm telling you. These days, while the Basque Government insists on a transparent and realistic explanation, the PNV makes progress and the demonstration is celebrated, I do not want to remind you of the great social issue on which Unite Podemos is voting and deciding. Each one decides his or her interest or devotes his or her interest to what he or she considers to be a priority, and do not forget that the choice of priorities is what defines each party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Alexia Castelo de sa Euscala Sozialists, members of the team of Parliaments for work and justice, concerning children and teenagers." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u27	Good morning, everyone. I'm gonna make a change of registration. We're going to lower tension. Article 10.14 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country confers on this autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u29	... exclusive competence in the organization, regime and functioning of institutions and institutions for the protection and guardianship of minors, prisons and social reintegration, in accordance with general legislation in civil, criminal and penitentiary matters. In this context, you all know that the Basque Government has been developing, since the late 1990s, a comprehensive model of intervention in the field of juvenile justice, whose backbone has been the so-called juvenile justice plans, which are conceived as basic tools for planning, management and evaluation, and which have been set up as a benchmark of good practice in the response that public entities must give to judicial demands in those underage persons. The consolidation of this model, the continuous development of programs and services and the evaluation of its results have become a reference model for many stakeholders and professionals in this area. A few months ago, you will recall that we had the opportunity to know in this House the mid-term evaluation of the Fourth Youth Justice Plan, which was carried out by the Basque Institute of Criminology, and we were able to verify the effectiveness of planning and the progress that it represents in the area of juvenile justice. One of the most relevant aspects highlighted, that assessment, was the reduction in the rate of recidivism between boys and girls to which some of the educational and rehabilitation measures have been applied. Thus, we were able to know that while the I Youth Justice Plan, which took place between 2003 and 2007, the recidivism rate was set at 28.1, in this mid-term evaluation this rate is 16.7, that is, 11 percentage points lower. Another aspect that was highlighted was the necessary cooperation between the different departments of the Basque Government, because the actions are led by the Directorate of Justice, but relations are established with other departments to develop comprehensive and cross-cutting work that has to take into account each of the approaches from which to work with young people who have had problems with Justice. A coordinated work that, in view of the fruits or results that this mid-term evaluation gave us, we can say that it is bearing fruit. A model of juvenile justice which is also based on ongoing research into the treatment of these new criminal typologies, and which we also had the opportunity at the Parliamentary Committee on Justice to know when we approached juvenile centres. A model that has to promote the application, to the extent possible, of the open model, of the treatment in an open environment, because this allows us a greater success of the various programs and the implementation of the actions in the social context in the community to which these boys and girls must then return. As I said to you, a constant work that is allowing this model of juvenile justice that is being developed in the Autonomous Community to be an international reference. Next week, as you will all know, a World Congress on Justice for Children and Adolescents will be held in Paris, a congress sponsored by UNESCO, which aims to involve different professionals and stakeholders from around the world, in order to share views on juvenile justice and family, and crime prevention and violent extremism. And what I want to put to you, Mrs San José, is that, from the experience that is accumulated in this Community and from the leadership that you exercise in your department, what are the contributions that you will be able to make from your department in this World Congress? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Indeed, next week, between the 28th and the 30th, a World Congress will be held in Paris – to which you have referred. In this congress I will participate together with the director of Justice and the department's Youth Justice Officer. And the reasons why we have decided to participate are basically two. One, the content of the congress, which will address issues such as reducing juvenile delinquency and recidivism, as well as improving protection mechanisms for vulnerable children, adolescents and young people, including early prevention strategies; and the second, expanding contacts and international avenues for collaboration in this area. The World Congress has a specific forum for the Ibero-American countries and, as you said in your speech, Mrs Castelo, the model of juvenile justice in Euskadi is a reference for many countries in that geographical area. The values and the restorative approach that we put into practice here have been promoted in these countries, especially following the Ibero-American Declaration of Restorative Juvenile Justice, adopted by the Conference of Ministers of Justice of the Ibero-American Countries, held in the Dominican Republic three years ago, on 27 and 28 May 2015. The Ibero-American Forum is driven by the non-governmental organization Tierra de Hombres and its leaders have invited us to participate and participate in the Paris World Congress. I think it will be an excellent opportunity to expose our model of juvenile justice, bring the results of our experience of more than 20 years, and draw lessons from other realities and establish the premises for future collaborations. In September 2016, a road map for the implementation of the declaration was designed and approved in Guatemala, and it proposes various actions that have to do with the elaboration of documents and regulations, the promotion of specialized training, research and knowledge management and the promotion of collaboration agreements between different countries in the Ibero-American area. In line with this road map, from Euskadi we can offer and want to materialize in specific agreements institutional exchanges for the practical knowledge of the models of intervention, advice and accompaniment of professionals of the juvenile justice system of the Basque Country in the design and implementation of new models of intervention, and transfer our extensive experience in drawing up plans and in defining and evaluating them. And also exchanges, specialization stays, technical advice and training actions both in Euskadi and in the countries concerned. Another objective is to articulate our participation in the post-graduation of the University of Geneva on juvenile justice with a restorative approach. In addition to obtaining the appropriate relations to promote new agreements, we want to enhance the agreements already signed on this subject with Chile, the Dominican Republic and the Argentine provinces of Entre Ríos and Santa Fe. Alongside all these reasons, I think it is important to indicate our presence at this world congress and it is very timely given that we are in the last year of implementation of the IV Youth Justice Plan 2014-2018, and it is time to start updating the evaluation indicators and it will be very helpful for us to get in touch with the models that are applied in other reference countries, such as those in northern Europe. I'm done with two data from the four years that have passed from the plan. The first, that the average of measures imposed is about 840 per year between firm and precautionary. And the second fact, that the recidivism of young offenders, as you have already said, is below 17%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u32	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made for the president, for socialization, and for the remuneration of the revenues." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. It is not part of my obligations to make things easy for you or your Government, but I am not going to slip through the territory of the post-truth that we saw this morning in plenary. We are going to talk about social protection and, therefore, it should also be remembered that we have actually reached an agreement to improve the situation of pensioners throughout Spain, also in the Basque Country and that this is of extraordinary importance, because it is the central axis of the solidarity system throughout Spain and also here in the Basque Country. Today I have to talk to you about a breach of your Government, because it undertook to introduce a bill for the reform of our protection system, the reform of the law of the GIR. It has not complied, because it has not introduced that bill. On the other hand, the proposed law has been introduced by the groups supporting the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. They have also submitted a Lanbide reform plan. I consider it pertinent to ask you whether that proposal that you have welcomed from the Government, is the reform that you want to make? Is it the reform that your Government has committed? If that is the proposal, then it can be claimed as well as the paternity of the Government and its intention to do so. And very important also to us, since you are in a minority situation and if you want to carry out a law or if you want to carry out a reform you need to look for a partner, if what that proposal contains is a statement of maximums, minimums... How far do you want to change? Are you going to make decisive progress, as I have asked you many times in the rostrum, to make employment truly the centre of social policy and, therefore, to ensure that our aid system does not codify the perception of such aid and, therefore, has rates as low as those which it now has of employment integration? If you present this proposal for a law convinced that there are difficulties in controlling aid, that there have been cases of undue charges up to millions of dollars, that there has been widespread perception in a large part of society that the system is discriminatory and unfair, I would like to know whether you share these reflections that have led you to change your position in this legislature and I understand that it has to be understood and accepted that a thorough reform of the protection systems is needed to ensure that it focuses on the environment of employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Alonso, you know well and you know well what the dynamics and also the mechanics are in relation to what may be the desire to present a bill, the circumstances that occur when a dialogue is opened with collectives, with political partners who also demand more time for what may be the exhaustion of deadlines as well. And in that sense, also the mechanics to present it as a proposition of law. I value the proposal of law as one more step in a three-decade trajectory in which Euskadi has demonstrated in fact his solidarity and support for the people who need it most. And these measures were introduced, Mr Alonso, a year ago, in May 2017 in this Parliament, and they are concrete amendments and proposals for regulatory changes to better protect the weakest link, to improve management and further progress in efficiency, avoiding the inappropriate and irregular use of aid. And after about twenty appearances, proposals have been collected from institutions, associations and collectives to improve the Basque system of social protection. I consider the reform necessary. It is necessary to update and stabilize the system, to adapt regulations to management, which now belongs to Lanbide, to adjust measures to new social needs and to consider realities such as housing provision, inclusion policies or access to training and employment, which is obviously one of the objectives. I therefore welcome the measures put forward, the contributions received and the will of consensus with which they are put forward in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u37	I thank you for the answer, but I will tell you, because in your last sentence you have appealed to the need for consensus, which is difficult for this reform to come out by consensus, this reform will have to come out by majority. If you think you can involve in the same position in the reform of the RGI to Podemos and to PP, that will be impossible. It is impossible and, therefore, we are as always in this legislature in the need to choose, and you have to choose where you will go. I would like to tell you that for us the reform is very short, it is short, and therefore it will have to be tightened if an agreement is to be reached or reached with the position of my group, in which we had very little incentive to be able to reach an agreement with you after we were severely disqualified from the last legislature, that our proposals were never taken into account, nor taken into consideration in the House, and that all the arguments that you are now using to justify the reform were denied. We therefore have very little incentive, Mr Lehendakari, and it is very difficult for us to reach a consensus, a position which is certainly diametrically opposed between what the People's Party thinks and what Mr Bildu or Mr De Podemos think. So I tell you clearly, if you want support, you choose, you choose clearly, and you don't stay so short in the reform of the GIR.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, that the reform is short... Look, we don't start from scratch, we don't start from scratch. We have adopted measures to review the internal working procedure, we have incorporated new technologies to improve the management and control of fraud. We have expanded coordination with social security, we have put in place a protocol with the local police. We are implementing the fingerprint identification system based on biometric parameters. We have improved labour integration initiatives with individual training and employment monitoring of the person receiving aid. We're not leaving from scratch, Mr. Alonso. For thirty years, Euskadi has invested in ensuring cohesion and social inclusion. The improvement measures have been continuous and there is now a new reform with the depth of diagnosis, with the concreteness of the measures, the time and the contributions that this issue deserves. And yes, we need to extend the support, we need to extend the consensus and the proposal is open to the support of the groups, including yours, Mr Alonso, in order to achieve the objectives that I believe we share: to preserve the model, to improve its management and to prioritise the integration of the people who find themselves in the need to receive this help. We must, therefore, make our agreement in order to make these measures go forward. Our attitude to conversation and contrast is complete. The deal, Mr. Alonso, is open to all the teams, and so is your team. And I hope you get generous deals to improve the management, work to make it easier and help those who most need it. And I hope you agree to the basic commitment we share, that is to continue to strengthen the system for social protection. And so, Mr Alonso, the government in connection with the initial question on the bill or bill, is fulfilling its agenda and we are going to maintain social priority and guarantee all benefits with rigour and seriousness. This is our commitment and we will continue to do so. The debate on the bill is in the Basque Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Internation, investigation Alonso, members of the EH Union, made to the president of the Basque Relations." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u41	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. To-day we shall speak again of business, and some one may say: "Again? "I don't know. Yes, again. We'll talk again because it's an important subject and it's a bad subject, and we'll discuss it over and over again until we figure out all the real problems and while we're trying to keep ourselves on a political schedule. Yes, labored and hired in our country are bad. We have often discussed the matter, as I have said before, general facts, but we are more or less acquainted with them. So I won't be long. Only in three details will I draw the most important features of the modern trade. As to the terms of the work, we see that the majority of the Basque Workers have not the established authority. Only 27% of the labor agreements are strengthened and renewed. 20% are canceled, and in extension state 53%. This is the data CRL gave me in March. Only 27% of the workers have a renewed workword. As for the Soldates, the average salary is dropping, especially as the Adecco report tells us at the end of April, though these are the things that we have. The average salary in our community is 1.930 euros. 6% of the last year, i.e., in absolute terms the average salary has been lowered for the last year. If we add to it the effect of inflation, the capacity for bribery, the capacity for the purchase of the workers of Esscal, 2,5 points has been lowered in a year. And in the last five years, four,7, the first largest fall of the state. And we are no longer the community which has the highest wages, but Madrid has advanced us to that race and contest. Third point of view, which belongs to provisionality. There we are champions in the Spanish state and also in our community. In 2017, temporary activity has passed from 23 to 26%, three points have been raised. Because in Europe, in the first grade, European champions, because we almost double the average of the European Union, have the temporary rate of time established at 14%. The labor contract is not renewed, the wages are getting lower, the provisionalness is increasing, and we might add to it as much as possible. the state of the country which is still more obscurely drawn to us; double scales, long unemployment, a long growth of the phenomenon of the poor workers, etc. Behind this there are some specific policies. And these specific policies are also influenced by the frame to impose. Because, in this case, it is determined in the Spanish Common-wealth, because they determine us, because they impose upon us the general rules of labour, and the policies which are developed in this order of labour. The several reforms which have been present have increased the state, and have encouraged the cultivation of the work, and have done so with premeditation. They have been willing to make it their object to a collective negotiation and to a centralization of labor in general cases. The stateization of labor relations in our community is a growing phenomenon and receives a political impulse, with different alliances of interests that drive it. In seven years, the number of Basque and Basque workers who have become or have become dependent on a state-level agreement has risen from 21 % to 34 %, in seven years. Among the agreements signed or renewed in 2018, in the months leading up to 2018, 21,000 workers have seen a renewed agreement at a state level and only 8,000 have renewed an agreement within the Basque Autonomous Community. This stateization of labour relations is promoted through the centralization of collective bargaining and the promotion of agreements at the state level, which in some cases even prohibit the signing of agreements in territorial entities of minor scope, in the case in which we are responsible, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, or provincial agreements. A premeditated centralization, in which the interests of certain trade unions are united, which are stronger there than here, with that of employers, both here and there, who know that in this area they can impose worse working conditions and wages. In addition, there is the blocking of conventions that have to be renewed in the Basque or provincial sphere, and the blockade leads, through the measures implemented by the different labour reforms, to the application of state-level legislation if the agreements are to lapse. Nor does the Basque employer agree to open up new areas of negotiation in those areas which have so far been regulated by state-level agreements and, therefore, the scope of the agreements negotiated in the Basque area cannot be widened. And finally, from the public sector, measures are being promoted, decrees that centralize and impose from Madrid relations in the field of public employment, on issues such as wages, replacement rates or even, as we have seen, working hours. In view of this, a structural agreement was signed, among other measures, which sought to give priority to the Basque-area agreements. An agreement that has not worked, because it has not been filled with content, since the employer has not agreed to lift the foot of the accelerator of the cuts and continues to take 100% of the opportunities offered by the current labour legislation, tailor-made, to let the agreements fall so that it can unilaterally impose the conditions of work and wages that interest it most. And even, this structure agreement, in addition to not being filled with content, has been threatened with its disappearance by the challenge made by a employer, a challenge to which it is true that a part of his Government was publicly opposed and we were able to hear the advisor of the branch declare herself against this challenge and ask for her to withdraw. I don't know if you said so. At least I didn't hear him and it would have been important for me to do so. It is important to address the stateization of labour relations. It is important to decide here also on these issues, by democracy, by respect for self-government, by respect for the right to decide on Basque citizenship, in order to be able to make decisions near the area in which they are to be implemented, is important. And it is also important to improve the working and wage conditions of Basque workers, regardless of their political affiliation. And that's something we can see over and over again by talking to the workers. Even trade unions or affiliates or sympathizers of state-level trade unions understand that it is always better to negotiate in the Basque sphere, because better conditions can be created, more adapted to our social, political and economic reality, among other things, to a higher standard of living and better wage opportunities. The Basque workers have been increasingly betting for their own trade unionism for a long time and it has been an absolute majority of the Basque trade unionism, a reality that is growing. You also set yourself, Mr Lehendakari, in the plenary of general policy in favour of ensuring that issues relating to work and the regulation of labour relations fall within the scope of self-government. And his party, in the context of the debate and the presentation on the new status and the new status, has also stressed the importance of labour relations being determined from here, becoming part of the space of self-government, by those issues which spoke of greater democracy, by the existence of a system of social actors and by the peculiarities of our economic, productive and political system. What are you doing and what are you going to do to make that a reality?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, you've been asking me about the plan of your natural workmaking frame. My point of view is clearly expressed in the government program. Sixth commitment says: "Reducing social association and business intervention." Our goal is to fulfill the whole program, including that commitment and six initiatives that it involves. As a matter of fact, the statement in the interpelation deserves a comment, or I think so. You have stated that our community is in a state of severe lockdown, you have censured collective negotiations, and you say that the origin of this situation is the reform of labour imposed by the State. First of all, Mr. Casanova, I'd like to remind you of the first evidence. The responsibility of negotiation between unions and corporations is the responsibility of these two agencies. The government can promote, facilitate, facilitate, facilitate, and encourage tools to assist negotiation and negotiation. In fact, we do, and there's the Work Relation Council, for instance. But the responsibility, Mr. Casanova, is the most economical and social operating cause. Moreover, it must be remarked that in many cases the organizations of corporations and unions do not want the government to intervene in its negotiations, they do not want it. It's because the sides asked for it when it's all over. And you think it's the reform of the 2012 business trade, the origin of this serious situation. And I'll remind you that the Eucat Party voted against reforms. In fact, we voted against him six years ago for four major reasons. As for the rest, he proposed to fire without sufficient cause, because he limited the collective negotiation, because it limited the cost of dismissing it, and because it was the rights of the workmen to retire. Today I confirm my hostile attitude, I confirm it. On the other hand, you mentioned Euskadin's stability. And I'd like to remind you that in January 2017, Confebask and the four euscal unions agreed unanimously to give the eucalyptus treaty over state contracts. Confebask and four unions, last January. This agreement was the first part of the job that has been done since Eukadin '99. All the Plants took this agreement for positive. I was glad to hear it, and we welcomed it. This agreement has an indefinite duration. It's in force. It's applied. So it's in the hands of corporate and union organizations to unlock the collective negotiation, and preponderating the contract of Eukadin above the state of state. On the other hand, you often say that "Eunk" is an ally of Confebask, and that I've interrupted the partnership of other unions or that we broke up. I must absolutely cancel that. I must absolutely cancel it. I don't know if I'm in touch with you. Our door is open to be a social interview with corporations and unions, and a decision about participation in the forum created for this purpose is taken on its own initiative by every agency. If anyone didn't want to be in these interviews, he did it voluntarily and in accordance with his own strategy, but it can't be denied that there are some forums. The whole thing is to create more and better jobs. It's a priority. all the undertakings, even the frames of agreement we've signed with Confebask, have that purpose. Our purpose was to give an answer to a very exact demand. Our intention is not to stop a job without a cover from 100,000 jobs that the companies will need in 2020. Our response was the builder. Trying to improve the following programs: a young man's job, to facilitate the preparation of the unemployed, to introduce a woman into business and industry, and to convert temporary employments into unlimited employment. These are the jurisdictions of the government, and we adapt them to the wants that are proposed to us. This arrangement is open to development and execution on the table for social conversation. Mr Casanova, you have no doubt that what the Commissioner for Labour and Justice has been able to say is even raised in the Governing Council, and ratified by the Governing Council itself and by me, therefore, also as lehendakari. And I reiterate that the responsibility for negotiating labour relations between trade union and business representatives rests with these two actors. The Government is encouraging, facilitating, promoting instruments to promote consultation and negotiation – and we are doing so, and I think it is appropriate to underline and outline in this plenary session of the European Parliament. Today – with the Labour Relations Council, with the General Council of Osalan, the Economic and Social Council, the Committee of Trade Union Elections, the Lanbide Board of Directors, the Basque Vocational Training Council, the Family Council, the Social Services Council, the Hobetuz Employers' Office, Basque Council for Social Inclusion... Let us encourage the meeting between those who want to meet and participate and contribute. Therefore, I would like to remind you that only in the General Administration of our community do we have 32 collegiate bodies, which are active and in which trade unions participate. That mention, therefore, of the social dialogue exists, the dialogue between those who want, and forums exist for that dialogue to take place. And I also remind you that in January 2017 Confebask and the four Basque unions reached a unanimous agreement to give preference to the Basque agreements over those at the state level. They were Confebask and the four Basque unions. And this agreement has indefinite validity and is applicable. It is in the hands of business and trade union organizations to unlock collective bargaining and make the Basque conventions prevail over the state. In any case, the Government's objective is to achieve more and better employment. Look, on Tuesday, the BBVA economic report projected a reduction in unemployment rates in Euskadi, which, depending on the stability scenario and the continuous improvement of the economy, could fall by 10% this year and by 9% next. And it's good news. Our goal should be to row together, all agents, row together, to continue increasing productivity and improving wages. In short, improving the competitiveness of our companies and the quality of employment. And with regard to salaries, which you also pointed out, Mr Casanova, this is not the first time that you have put questions to the Government and motions in this House. Today exactly one year ago, on 25 May 2017, last year, an agreement was approved with its vote calling for the repeal of the Labour Reform, stable and quality employment, the promotion of collective bargaining on the basis of the agreement of 17 January 2017 and the need to undertake an increase in wages within the framework of collective bargaining, I insist, within the framework of collective bargaining and taking into account the reality of each company. I therefore agree that improving the quality of employment is an outstanding challenge. I agree, Mr Casanova, and so I am. Precisely, lowering the unemployment rate, improving the quality of employment and having adequate professionals are the three challenges also highlighted in the BBVA report for Euskadi. And I also reiterate that the evolution of wages corresponds to collective bargaining, which is the responsibility of business and trade union organizations. And I know that Basque companies are already affecting the adequacy of wages. I also said this at the Cebek assembly, despite receiving criticism for the demand for wage increases also in relation to what were the realities of each company. The continuity of this process already initiated will be a positive news because it has a positive impact on consumption, and it is a clear sign that recovery is consolidated and companies gain competitiveness. So, Mr. Casanova, our goal is to increase production and keep rowing with each other for wages. And when I say together, it is to be able to do it together among all these things. After all, our aim should also be to continue to improve the competitiveness of our companies and the quality of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u45	Yes, Mr. President, I know that last May it was confirmed by my voice or the voice of my team to raise wages, the other by an agreement that required, not only with our vote, but because of our initiative, that we brought this matter here. And when we've brought him back again and again, we've managed to make a statement about the climb from you. It is true that you have even made them out of this Chamber, but for the first time it was asked for the general rise in this attic of the EH Collectors. But that's not news, it's almost asking everybody to raise wages and it's due to a concession and two concessions. On the one hand, there is growth, and so there is an opportunity for that, and on the other hand, if wages don't rise, even the internal demand will not rise and be injurious to the economy, and even from a technical point of view. Then all who hear say and some say that even those who are on the right side ought to increase their wages. But the patriarchal is now that he is to take that step, and the patriot, it seems, is not enough for him to demand or to listen to, he must demand more patricians. This plan must be adopted by the Patronarian seriously. I do not ask you to address the employer with the same aggressiveness with which you address some unions, to the majority practically, but if not aggressively, yes with the assertiveness that you are able to get wet and start commitments more concrete than to define eternally that you have to raise wages and then when they do not listen to you, accept that negative. In the first place, we wanted to talk about stability in our interactions and the frame of euscal relationships. You've told us so little about it, you've told us very little. Maybe we should start from the end. Our appeal was clear: to get a frame for eskal workflows and insert it into a new self-portrait, into a new state What will you do? You didn't tell us much about that either. I think it is important, when in this very House, for example, Mr Alonso, you have been asked to care with greater demands around the right to decide, because you may lose the right to decide that you currently have. When yesterday, on the part of the representative of the People's Party, from this very attril, he was told that they are a guarantee that what is being talked about and agreed upon in the self-government presentation will not be carried out. When you delayed the negotiation or the approval of the budgets, not so much because of what was happening in Catalonia, but because you were hoping to scrap some transfer, which until the last hour you tried and did not get it because the Government is absolutely clear that it is not going to make any transfer, not yet new, but from those that are pending and accepted and are of compulsory compliance. When we understand that the State and the People's Party, with which you share politics, share politics on the model of state and also economic policy, we are not prepared to make progress even in the fulfilment of what we are already committed to, because you will have to put forward some kind of strategy to move forward and I do not see you in that area. What I see is aligned with the employer, because if we said that statehood has allowed conditions to deteriorate labor relations, there has to be a second part, and it is a employer, yes, here, that is implementing that reform to benefit their interests, and it is also a employer that is benefiting from the complicity of his Government. Because I tell you honestly, the glasses you look at political and social reality with are Confebask's glasses, and from those glasses you see macroeconomic results, but you don't see the reality of most people in this country. When we say here that there is economic growth in gross domestic product, we all accept it, because it is an objective fact, but when we say that wages are not rising, that poor workers are multiplying, that pensions do not have an adequate response and that public services are becoming smaller, among other things by the counter-tax reform that you have implemented to the Confebask dictatorship, we are talking about how that supposed recovery is perceived by a majority of this country, and that majority is not coming. And you, instead of putting on the glasses of that social majority, are again and again sharing table and tablecloth with Confebask and using your congresses and your meetings as a true body of expression of this government as it passed last time, last week at the Cebek meeting. You share with the employer, you turn your back on the majority of the citizenry, and your complicit attitude is the one that is allowing this deterioration in labor relations and the labour market. We therefore ask you, first, to change your attitude and, secondly, to answer whether you intend to do something specific in the context of self-government, in addition to words, so that the democratic will of this country's citizens is respected, also in the area of the construction of a Basque framework for labour relations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Casanova, we continue with the topics and will thus continue full after full, after full, after full, after full, with the recurring topics, even though the truth is another. Look, I align this with what is a policy of collaboration, a policy of agreement, a policy of consensus. And I am not aligned with what is a policy of confrontation, nor of confrontation. I am aligned with the generation of more and more quality employment, not with the strategies of agents who may be more interested in what may be the disencounter that causes the destruction of jobs and the destruction of jobs with quality. I don't understand Mr. Casanova how my statements can interfere. They are words made for each other, words made for each other, not for confession. I don't understand the allusions to social conversation. I think that's the way to deal with the relationships in the new global change situation. This is a state that affects governments. and the company, the laborers, and the whole community in general. Look, Mr Casanova, I invite you to read from beginning to end, word to word, all my speech in the Cebek General Assembly and also read the statements of some entrepreneurs regarding what I said in that assembly the next day, reflected in the media. Yeah, read it. Read it. I invite you to read it but from beginning to end and apply a principle of reality. The Director-General of the International Labour Organization at the conference on the future of the work we want, on the occasion of the centenary of ILO, clearly reflected this reality. And I quote you textually: "The work is at a crossroads. On the one hand, the effects of recent crises that have left a trail of unemployment and vulnerable employment persist. On the other hand," he said, "are the profound changes that characterize these times. The impact of new technologies – it continues –, the ageing of the population, migratory flows, the effects of climate change, changes in labour relations, the new directions of globalization and their effects on employment and production are some of the factors of change that fuel discussions on the future of work." And he also wondered: "Where will the jobs of the future come from? What will those jobs look like? Will we live better?" Well, look, Mr. Casanova, I think it's the questions we have to ask ourselves. These, I think, are the questions we have to ask ourselves: How can I answer these challenges from Basques? How could you answer for a better chance? And do you think the answer is more confession? Is it even bigger? I don't believe in it. I believe in it. I believe in a company model that will not answer the conditions and stereotypes of the industrial revolution that has passed. I believe in a new model capable of answering the roots of industry and of the new social revolution. Companitive and self-interesting. In particular, you and the representatives of all the groups registered the same proposal as the 14th of May to promote an inclusive company model. And I quite agree with your signature as you gave him the pattern that this other proposal proposes. The way, Mr Casanova, to tackle labour relations in the new scenario of global change is cooperation and not confrontation. I believe that in a new, more inclusive and participatory business model, and all groups – also yours – recorded on May 14 a non-legislative proposal for the promotion of a new business model. The way to respond to the challenges posed by the International Labour Organization itself, to which I have referred, is through collaboration and not confrontation, through a new business model that is more open to participation and more inclusive. I invite you to update your proposals and take into account the factors of change in order to make progress in the new models recommended by the ILO and which refer to realities very close to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interrament, Eva Lopez de Arriyabe, Saez de Maturuna EH Collectorda, with the steps to integrate Trebiñu Araban." Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u49	Good morning, and thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Today, on the table of Trebun, the eighth region of Arabebah in the parliament. In 1995, more than 20 years ago, a Senate presentation already called for progress on the territorial issue by guaranteeing services to the population. Today we have not solved either the territorial issue of Trebiñu in Araba, nor even basic services, basic services that correspond also to this Executive: health, education, agriculture... 25 years have passed without a step, 25 years without making promises, 25 years without the word of the Jeltarian Seat Party. 25 years in which party interests have neutralized the rights of people living in Trebiñu. 25 years in which rights have been lost, opportunities have been lost and, worst of all, the will of the people living there has not been heard. Can anyone in this House say that the promises that were then made, in the year 95, and have continued to be made, have been fulfilled? Can anyone in this House be so brave today to say "Trebiñou Araba da" or have been left in a mere phrase made and practically forgotten? Because this government can't really say it, because this government doesn't believe it. The Basque Country Collect decimos alto y clarro: Trebunu is Araba, and he doesn't play with the people who live in Trebiñu. But Trebinu has a problem that he's not on the political schedule. Trebiñu is not a priority and the answer is very simple: there are no economic interests, no benefits, no many votes, because Trebiñu neither gives money nor is he in negotiations with the Spanish Government. In fact, this topic is practically not of interest. Economically Trebiñu, moreover, is a waste, it is a waste to this government that is not willing to accept any stick in the wheel in these economic negotiations, which are not political, which it conducts in Madrid. But it must be said that we must put Trebinu into the political schedule, and give an answer because the inhabitants deserve it, and we can't lose it another 25 years. For 25 years now, a generation has passed. A generation has passed in which the Basque Government has played "a small", as in the mus, has played "a small" on the subject of Trebiñu, on the territorial subject. A generation of people who have been prevented from expressing their opinions, have been prevented from participating and even prevented from deciding. A generation that has already lost the right to be Basque, the right to be Alavesa and that much to their regret He still has to be held accountable in Burgos and Valladolid. The PNV is doing people's back policy today. The PNV is exchanging chromes and selling smoke, it's changed little for nothing to change. And I'm going to give you an example that shows this. Just a week ago, in the plenary of the City Hall of Trebiñu, there was an institutional statement that clearly asked for two things, two very simple things. On the one hand, bring together the monitoring committee to follow the agreements signed, without limitations of competence, and, on the other hand, to make it known to the citizens of Trebiñu. Well, I'll tell you one thing, do you know what the party that supports the government today voted for? He voted no. There were five votes in favour of this institutional declaration, one Euskal Herria Bildu, County Citizens, Independent Association and Citizens for Treviño and against, curiously, very curiously, a vote by the mayor, who voted against even her own party, two votes by the People's Party and one vote by the PNV. So, in particular, they refused to convene the follow-up committee as a matter of urgency in order to achieve a comprehensive agreement, set a path and end up in the free and democratic decision of the trevious and trevious. Clearly the PNV was attached to the PP and against this. We would like a reason why it is not interesting to set a road map. Tell us only one reason why it is not of interest to seek the free decision of those who live in Trebiñu. Is there any interest we're missing right now? You are negotiating for certain economic interests, I think I have said this, not politicians, and these negotiations hurt, hurt even your own parish. These negotiations, which are difficult to assimilate, are indeed easy to understand. After this historic week of political vavenes, economic vavenes, a feeling of betrayal is what the trembling and trembling are seeing one day after another, even a feeling of abandonment. 25 years later, you have the house without sweeping, the duties without doing. They are failing, and we know that a change of direction and a courageous and risky bet can mean losing votes, it is true, but loyalty, the Basque word that we hear so much these days, political honesty, are values that once lost do not recover. And I'll go with something else. Next June 17th, Araba of Argangazi will be celebrated. The day of celebration for the apprentice and eucalogy, unfortunately still necessary in Aban. You know very well that the conditions of Arganzean learning are not easy; you know very well that no stake for the euu-tub is easy; you know that Trebinu's life, learning, and working is not easy. In fact, he requires commitment and effort. Please take your word and be brave. That's all we're asking for. No vayáis solo a sacaros la photo a Trebienu. Vamos a i a Trebiñu, vamos a hacer los debes. The bet must be clear and clear. And let's also talk about competitions. We don't have to throw balloons out today. I hope you don't. Here responsibilities and competences are shared among all Basque, bourgeois, even Spanish state administrations. But today you are not fulfilling yours, with your share exclusively. Mr Urkullu, my question is absolutely easy and my question is very simple to answer. What steps will the Executive take in the future to do once and for all to include Trebiñu in Arabic? Mr. Urkullu, tell me you're going to take real steps. Swear that the problems of the population of Trebinu will be on your desk and that you will make real progress. On our side, Trebinu Araba has always been like this. We expect you to be Trebiñu Araba as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u50	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In politics, or at least in this forum, when a person who is new speaks for the first time about a subject, and speaks of it as a precedent, and mentions only one thing which has happened in the Senate in the year 1995. All the world knows that there have been a great many of them here, many and many of them, as if there were not all of them, as if they had not existed, to make a terrible leap and to criticize everything: here nothing has been done, everything is wrong, everything is wrong, everything must be demanded of responsibility, and so on. There have been a lot of things going on here. The subject you bring to this day is not at all news in this legislature, nor at a distance. Perhaps in this law, because no one else has proposed it, but this subject has often been here subject to discussion in the preceding law and in the preceding times. It has often been discussed and discussed in two planes, even here and many other forums, not only in the Senate. This subject may be discussed on two planes, and it has been discussed. On the one hand, you mentioned it, or I don't know whether you've actually mentioned it or not, the perspective of the country or the plan of the country. The other one, the role of public efficient services. There are two different planes. I think both of them are important, very important. because they are really relegative to the people, on the one hand, because they give the power to express the will and will of the people politically, and, on the other hand, the necessity of answering the wants of the people, and of answering their daily necessities. So I think both sides are important. They're not incoherent, but there's one thing I think is very important and one thing we should consider when we talk about the Entlabe in Trebinu. These two planes being different, it's not fair to mix them. Because if we mix them, we're liable to fall into danger. For it is a different purpose that one plane and the other attains neither end nor end at last. We have that danger, and we are in danger of falling into it. So that, as I think, being different, both very important, the supplementary ones won't take away the other, I don't think it's proper to mix one with the whole one. How can this be proposed from the point of view of the land? I'm not going to tell you what's known now. I believe that the frames of selection are clear, and here they have been able to discuss more than once. There are two options. One which manifests itself by means of the States, and appears by the States in force. The 8th article of the state of Guernica and the third article of Castile Leone in addition. The State of Guernica is on the way to change, and here you have created a power in the legislature to place it in the way of modification, or to direct a debate about it. Here's your chance, if you want to do any other planning, about how to change it and how to regulate it on another plane or other schemes about the training in Trebian. But the chances are there, and I'm not going to come in because I'm sure what efforts have been made so far and what solutions they've had, because it would probably be history, and we'd never end it. There's another possibility with its frame that was transmitted here during the law. Your parliamentary team here voted for an initiative in discussing the Tribunal Courts, and thereby changing the limits of the province which was the object of this organic law. Well, that took him here, he tried it here, I was here. At this moment the initiative, which came from the town of Trebiñu, was here transferred to the Courts, but we know what happened there. Well, some of them, who had voted here, refused there, and some of them who had been served here refused him. Well, that's right there. The possibility of rethinking this road is on the table, it may be proposed. The Trebians may set up this road again by their councils, or, in his case, the State may change, and you may now have the opportunity of conducting it in the legislature. In any case, I repeat, that possibility of the Constitution 141, which the article foresees, is open again, in order to be proposed to any one who will. The second is the plan of public service, the plan of public services. So long as the subject which belongs to the land is not directed to it, there is a problem, it is clear. Trebiña enkla in the land of Araba is physically situated, but it is legally another land. he is attached to one, and is attached to the province of Burgos, and Castile is attached to the Roman Autonomy of Leon. The point is, if they are physically in the land of the Araba, it is far from the capitals of those lands which are legally annexed to it, it is within a hundred and a hundred miles from the Burdidai and from Valladolid. It's 225 miles away. It is plain, therefore, that services are not sufficient, because they are scanty, and are necessary to daily necessities, no one ever answers to the daily necessities of the Treviri, because they really receive very little services. There's been a lot of effort here to go through that. Not right now, it was signed in the year 2002. He signed them in 2002. A language about economic and cultural matters and the other about economic development. Laura, four contractors, were incontested, and the Court of Justice of Castile, by abolishing these compacts which the Court of Justice gave a judgment against them. You didn't mention them, as if they weren't there, you've done your whole speech as if that story hadn't existed, but they've been there. These were resurrected, and the Supreme Court, with its repeated appeals from the Basque and municipal councils, proposed together with the Supreme Court in 2008 and 2010, threw back all those contracts. They were directly signed to the local councils, but justice threw them back and destroyed them. That's 2012 after. In the year, another general protocol was signed with elders of Castile. That's a fact, it's well known what kind of services are offered in it, because they've been asked several times from this legislature, and it's been reported by the Euskákong in front of this congress about a couple of months ago, but it's not the only case, because it's often done about it. Next to this, the old Fordunda of Arada has recently signed seven other treaties with the Diet of Burdria, agreements related to 13 matters, and here also they are prepared to give an answer to the services required by the tool or company of its inhabitants. It may be, it may be improved, may be explained in another way, but it is in force. That's in effect and the Eukon Christmas has its own plan with its local Junta, to offer service to Castile Leon's Junta, and the Indulous Foru has another pact with his division, which is still recently signed, to offer services. Maybe it's better? It may be better, I will not doubt it, and here it may be proposed, that all the enterprises which are intended to improve may be proposed. But it cannot be said that nothing has been done, that nothing has been directed, and that nothing has not improved in the offer of services. There have been efforts, which the justice of Spain has repulsed, but although the justices of Spain have been repulsed, there have been still more fresh efforts than this, and now there are other undertakings to offer them services. The subject of land has another formula, and you can change it now if you want to change the state, and if you succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u53	Yes, hello again and thank you. This week is fraud week, Mr Erkoreka. You just let me down. The question was absolutely concrete: what steps are you going to take from here to the future? I didn't say what wasn't done. I have only resorted to the year 96 and that things are not done. It's just that we're talking about territoriality and rights. So, this is absolutely a fraud, because you haven't answered me what you intend to do next. Nothing at the moment. How many generations are going to have to pass again for Trebiñu to be in Araba? But I'm not saying it. I mean, I'm resorting to an absolutely current motion, because it's from last week, in which you tell me about the famous agreements – already famous – and the same Trebiñu plenary says "they are necessary, but absolutely insufficient". And we're talking about a lack of resolution of issues related to collection, winter roads, development agencies, agriculture, health, education, transportation... "It's a separate chapter – literally, I'm reading – that it lacks to deal with and resolve the territorial issue, despite the mandate of the 95th edition." I'm not saying that. I am new in this House, I do not know whether for good or for bad. There are others who are not so new, neither do I know whether for good or for bad. What they are asking here is for the follow-up committee to meet urgently to look for a comprehensive convention and to establish a road map to culminate in the free democratic decision of the Treviñes. And his party voted against it. It's just something as simple as that. I'm not telling you to give me the chronological and geographical reading of what's going on. I know where Trebiñu is. I mean, maps and geography and history, I know a lot. I know that. We're not looking back, let's look forward. You had to... That is, to separate the territorial issue from the topic of basic rights, that is, please. Treviñes study in Basque, Treviñes study in Gasteiz, people have to come to Txagorritxu. I mean, please, let's do our skills, don't throw balls out. Today I think that all morning we've been doing some kind of fan and putting responsibilities on the rest. I'd like you to assume and look forward. Actually, back up. To me, 25 years later, I continue to say that the territorial issue has to be left aside and that rights are conventions that have been signed, in which neither the people who live in Trebiño assume them, nor accept them and say they are absolutely insufficient. I'm not making it up, he puts it here. So, just like that, I'll ask you, please, yes, indeed, we'll file a motion. We bring back the Trebiñu theme – the same is because I'm new, okay – because we bring back the Trebiñu theme to this House, and we're going to look into the future. Understanding that it has to be a coordinated work, I understand that we have to agree and that it cannot be otherwise, but we will be available. Of course you have to look back. But there are times when it's better to look forward and today is a day like that, and this week is a week like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u54	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, I too am new to this House. I am new to this House, so I, as a Member, as a Member of Parliament, is the first legislature in which I am here. I am no longer a Member of Parliament, but I have never before been as a Member of Parliament occupying a seat like you in this House, never before. In other parliamentary forums, yes, but not in this one. What happens is that, of course, when I approach an approach, I try to do it fully, in a balanced way, documenting myself well. Tell me you've made history... No, no, I have not made history, I have tried to do what you have not done to provide balanced information here, not to convey to the House a vision whereby the only precedent, the only precedent of your initiative is the 1995 Senate agreement and everything else has been fraud, everything else has been non-compliance, everything else has been disassistance. I'm sorry, it wasn't like that. Here is a very intense history of initiatives, actions, some good, others better raised, others with shortcomings, no doubt, with serious legal difficulties, which you are not hidden from. And what I have tried to do is an approach that is as balanced as possible to avoid fraud. If this is the week of fraud, indeed, you wanted to make a fraudulent approach to the House and do from the approach of post-truth, convey an image that was radically false. That is why I have had to seek or have tried, at least, to provide elements that would complete his vision. From there, I know the initiative to which you refer, to which you told me that it is the treviants who say this... Well, let's see, we're talking about an institutional declaration adopted by one of the two municipalities set up in the enclave, one of the two, not the other, just one. I'm not going to take away any relevance to the deal. An institutional statement is unanimously agreed in this House. Either there is unanimity or there is no institutional declaration, which I know of, and it is usually so in all chambers and in all representative forums. Well, in this municipality it is an institutional declaration but adopted not by an absolute majority, of course not by unanimity, but by a majority of five against four, five against four. The other city council of the enclave has not taken any decision on this; it has certainly not spoken about this approach. But look at the extent to which it makes an approach that can or does not be shared, but that has its own. Look, first, it's an institutional statement, I was telling you. He says that without limitations of competence, without limitations of competence. Look, I don't know who operates in the institutional framework without competition limitations, I don't know. Of course, not the municipalities, nor this Parliament, nor the Basque Government. He says that without limitations of competence, a definitive global agreement can be negotiated and achieved – not negotiated anymore – that will meet the needs of the county's inhabitants and set a road map that will culminate in the free and democratic decision of the Treviñes. There are two things here. A definitive comprehensive agreement and, secondly, a road map that will culminate in the free and democratic decision of the Treviñes. The two matters that I pointed out to you that it was certainly not appropriate to mix in the same cocktail pot, because in the end the risk is that neither one's goals are achieved. Neither is the risk in this approach. I can assure you one thing, here what is urged is to set up the follow-up committee, the follow-up committee, set up by the agreements recently signed in the Chambers of Deputies between the Foral Alavesa and the Chamber of Deputies of Burgos. A follow-up committee which, by its own definition, like all the follow-up committees, consists of representatives of the two institutions that subscribe to the convention. Well, by definition, this is so. The approach here is to break the seams on that monitoring committee, so that instead of being part of that monitoring committee by representatives of the two institutions that have signed the convention, we are going to incorporate into the Castile-Leon Board, the Basque Government, other institutions, the municipalities themselves, so that without limitation of powers it will decide everything that affects Trebiñu. To date, no one has invited the Basque Government to join either this or any other forum of the same nature, no one has informed it. If you are invited, if you are invited to the Basque Government, you will already decide, of course, to decide with perspective, with feasibility, with reasonableness, without demagoguery, so that matters can be raised rationally, not with biased statements such as those you have come here to make, that any forums are created. Not the monitoring committee, because the monitoring committee, by definition, cannot integrate other institutions other than those which have signed the convention. This is to break the seams on the organ and give it a completely different orientation and prohibition from the reason it was born. We are going to be serious, please, on this issue, we are going to stop doing fraud in the week of fraud, please, we are going to plan the systems seriously and distinguishing what needs to be distinguished for the sake of the treviants.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you, the Congressmen of the Casanova Alonso, who's a member of the Department of Economy and Sub-Sestax, about keeping industrial activities all over the land of Sestano-Tran." Mr. Casanova, whatever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u57	Hello, good morning again. In 1918, Babcock sat down on the Galendo of Wilcox, where he had developed almost a century's activity, and in the golden time he became more than 5,000 workers. In 2011, the company shut it down, and left it behind, not only a great many employments, but an historic property, an architectic and a very important land. But, on the one hand, we must say that what was an inheritance has become a waste by time and by neglect. The late Ondare is now placed in this condition. This is crude reality. So there was an icon factory, that's how it is today. We have not come to talk about architectural heritage because this could be another debate, but what these images do show is the abandonment of lands that are strategic from our point of view. Very well located land, land situated in an industrial environment, with excellent communications and land that could be one of the pillars on which the integration of new companies in the Left Margen could be centered. We ask you, not from the architectural and patrimony point of view, but from the point of view that you are the greatest rector of this country's industrial policy, to tell us whether it falls within your agenda that these lands are rehabilitate and offer themselves in their entirety as an industrial site for the development of activities in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. President, chief and congressman, good morning. Mr. Casanova, I'm sure you'll know that when that company went to hell, the land somehow stopped in two different hands. Some in the hands of the SEPI and others in the hands of the convening administration, as you used to say yourself. Then they came to the hands of the SEPI, somehow, to the Old Ibar Society. In the Old Ibar there were almost 80,000 quadrangles or they came. There are 50% of the U.S.P.'s holding or keeping it, and there's the SPRI, the Foru Aldundia and the City Hall of Seta. What have we been trying to do? Well, I'll read it to you in Spanish. "El fomento de la vestaciones necemaris y adecuadas que adenten la implantación y/o amplicition de amixas en el Territorico Histrico de Bizia." The Old Ibar was created for this purpose, and we've been working on these techniques, though they are, it's true, but we've tried to make the Cambrian order, and make several evangelical initiatives and environmental departments that are needed and to agree. In 2017 years, private interests were manufactured in order to develop all this, and in December, December 17, the Administration Council finally decided to make up its decision, y lo que el Consejo de Adminción, the interest of the dice in the existivines para marchación industry, acor lacención de Teos. They have been disposed of to a company called Izenea XXII SL, which is going to develop these industrial lands. Therefore, ground performance has been carried out over the years. We have also managed to get a private promoter to make these lands available to various industrial activities, because this is also qualified within the corresponding management and, from now on, it is up to us to work with other tools to, once managed the soil, carry out industrial implementations there. And it is no less true, and you know it, that this same Tuesday the new Indartu programme, the fourth expanded edition, was approved in the Governing Council, which will also serve to bring new investments to that field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u61	The dimensions of the terrain we are talking about are absolutely impressive. Maybe you from there don't see it but I'm sure on more than one occasion you've had the opportunity to see it more closely, in google maps We're talking about this area, which is the one I taught in the photographs. This area is the Ibar Zaharra polygon and is also here this other area. And on this area hangs a proposition for its requalification and its use for tertiary activities, in particular to enable the installation of the Amazon company. A company that is going to be engaged, in the event that this happens, in classifying and sorting boxes and distributing boxes, not in an industrial activity. That's why I was asking him to see if they wanted to devote industrial activity to all the land. It is an area of almost 100 hectares. The Heritage Association says it occupies the same as the first expansion of Bilbao – the expansion of Abandonment. It is an unusual surface, and it is a surface that can and should be useful. Do you, for example, want to take a technological park to a mountain in Abanto, to an area without urbanization and without artificialization? A region, yesterday we remembered it in the paper, that if it suffers, as one of its shortcomings, the lack of free spaces and the lack of natural spaces, and you want to artificialize an area that is not urbanized and at the same time keep in abandonment to areas that could perfectly fulfill that function. Look, Ezkerraldea has undergone a process of outsourcing that is behind the poor socio-economic situation that we live in. Yesterday we presented the conclusions of the presentation you have studied in reality. Ezkerraldea needs to move forward through industry and advanced industry, and for that it needs industrial soils that can host these activities to be valued, rehabilitated, placed on the market, and a special effort made, beyond the Indartu plan and a special effort made to then attract investments that occupy that land. Requalification and outsourcing goes in the opposite direction. If Ezkerraldea has anything left, they are supermarkets and, in addition, someone who comes with bread under the arm of supposed jobs. This company – Amazon, in particular – is famous all over the world for the precariousness of its working conditions, for its labor conflictivity and, as you know perfectly well, is engaged in a process of automation of the distribution and management processes of the parcel that would end in the short term also with the few jobs that are created.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As I mentioned in the first intervention, some of these soils have been available and have been used and we have been able to manage them through Ibar Zaharra, and there are other soils that are neither government-owned nor can we act on them, as you well know. And it refers to one in which we cannot act. The issue of requalification is also well known to you that it is in municipal hands, which does not depend on the action of the Government. Now, I will also tell you that when you talk about outsourcing and we talk about logistics activities as if they were not important, if we talk about a very important deployment that is in Gasteiz, very close here, of a company like Mercadona, with an automatic warehouse, with a series of very first level actions, are we going to despise such actions? They are associated with the industry, as is a company dedicated to making software. Is it pure manufacturing? No, no, Is it necessary for our industrial activity? Yeah. Therefore, they are activities in which it is not really the same to move one package from one area to another without any added value, but there are many times when there is that added value, which comes in one way, a process is carried out and comes out in another way. Then let's not work it out in a way that is certainly superficial, but in a deep way and analyzing everything in its place. In any case, how land is reclassified depends, as you know, absolutely on the corresponding municipal term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpologies of Julen Bollain Urbieta together with the members of the Podemos to the chief staff of Eplegus and Polylic Society, as to the preparation for workers." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u65	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mrs. Artola generous. It is a pity he had to leave the plenary last Thursday while we were talking about the precariousness of the youth that is the competence of his department. But today we're not going to talk about it here. I hope you've taken note. But today we are bringing to this plenary a subject which is also directly linked to the quality of employment, that is, we want to talk about the quality of vocational training for employment and, more importantly, the situation or the situation of those who work as professional trainers. I am almost sure that you will then come out and tell us that quality in training is important as a condition for quality in employment and that, of course, that is not possible without good training professionals. We know it and we share it. But we are bringing this issue today basically because two important parliamentary initiatives are currently being developed and debated in this Parliament, which directly affect people in general and the teaching staff in particular. We are referring, as you will know, on the one hand, to the paper that is being developed on the future law of Vocational Training in the Basque Country, which leads the Department of Education, and, on the other hand, to the reform of Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, which you, Mrs Artolazabal, lead. Well, in the debate and in the agreements reached on these two parliamentary initiatives it would be, in our view, unforgivable for us to forget the people, in this case the training people. In Elkarrekin We believe that these two topics, vocational training and employment, should be discussed together or at least should be perfectly coordinated in order to be able to mark a global and common strategy. Because it should be remembered that when we talk about vocational training or vocational training for employment, what we are actually talking about is a country model. We are talking about the prospect of the future, we are talking about establishing strategies for the development of Euskadi towards a knowledge society and we are also talking about achieving truly inclusive and sustainable growth. And this happens, without a doubt, to take care of the people, the people who need and receive the training, on the one hand, but also, and above all, the professionals of the training for the job, professional people who must be recognized and respected, both in the future law of FP and in the reform of Lanbide. Because that recognition and respect, Mrs Artilazabal, is not being given at present. And this is not a holder of Elkarrekin We can, as you have said before, nor do I expect you to feel hurt as well as ever again, because this very week I look at the unions ELA, LAB, Workers' Commissions and UGT in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy have made it clear that the work of technicians and mentors should not be emptied of content, nor should the outsourcing of guidance and training services to collaborating entities contracted by the management of Lanbide be given priority. Because, Mrs Artolazabal, it is clear that this is not the way to ensure the quality of training for employment, nor is it the way to guarantee the right to employment of Basque citizens. And, look, it hurts me to have to say this, but the reality is showing us that for the Basque Government this group of trainers for employment directly does not exist, or that you, as the Basque Government and deliberately, have decided that such professionals and workers do not exist. It gives the impression that this Administration does not consider it appropriate for job training professionals to be part of the system. Neither the FP law nor the Lanbide reform contains any idea that in some way shows the slightest intention of this government to want to regularize the professional situation of this group. None. And at this point I think it is important to remember that training is a right, and one of the services that Lanbide itself offers to improve the possibilities of Basque citizenship when it comes to getting a job and increasing its job skills. And when we talk about Basque citizenship, we talk about all Basque citizenship. We talk about unemployed people, active workers, self-employed people, people with or without qualifications. And unfortunately, Mrs Artolazabal, vocational training for employment has an image, it has the image that it is a low-level and low-performance training, which is aimed at people with low qualifications or unemployed. But reality shows us that it is a training for all levels, from management to warehouse, a training for everything, I repeat, all kinds of employment. But the most serious thing is that this perception has resulted in training for employment becoming a lucrative business, especially for companies whose purpose is neither education nor training. We are faced with a sector that has become increasingly deregulated, in addition, and has been privatized with a profit-oriented approach. Look, for example, for example, today, Mrs Artolazabal, we find ourselves in a reality where we see self-schools forming Spanish, while we find the classrooms of the EPA empty. Inquiring a little this week, he read on Lanbide's own website that a support and guidance service in the job search process is made available to Basque citizens. And even if it is not collected, I understand, or at least I would like to understand, that this search refers to decent and quality employment. Well, for that, and although it may sound trivial and seem common sense, Lanbide must be the first to set an example. Lanbide must be the first to set an example, Mrs Artolazabal. Lanbide must ensure that the employment and professional situation of those who train for the job is regular and of quality, as it would be somewhat strange – to say the least – that the rights of their own workers were not respected since Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service. And it's just that besides strange, it would be ridiculous and an incoherence on your part, don't you think, Mrs. Artolazabal? Well, at no time do you talk about the quality model that must be offered in employment training, a model that inevitably passes through the recognition of these professionals and these professionals, and the inescapable support that the Basque ubiquitous employment service itself, actively and proactively, must provide. The reality shows that the professional profile of the trainers for employment is not recognized by this Government. You're not recognized, Mrs. Artolazabal. We find a teaching body of trainers and trainers for the job that is neither accredited, nor structured, nor professionally recognized. Finally, Mrs Artolazabal, I will ask you two very simple questions, which I hope you will answer this time and we do not have to leave it, as on so many other occasions, to send them in writing. Simple. Do you believe, Mrs Artolazabal, that in order for there to be quality in employment there must also be quality in training? And the second, do you believe, Mrs Artolazabal, that it is necessary to have a body of teachers, trainers for employment, qualified, recognized and with rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u67	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. This Government, Mr Bollain, is aware of the importance that the training staff have in relation to the quality of the training provided and, therefore, in the training of those who use it. Lanbide has a training staff file, which records the teaching staff authorized to provide training specialties, vocational training for employment in the field of work, whether they are conducive to obtaining professional certificates or not. And in this file is clearly structured the training that the people in them can provide: complete training specialties or modules that make up the formation itinerary of them, if this is modular, or mode of face-to-face teaching or teletraining, by requiring the latter specific training regulated by the current regulations. In the case of certificates of professionality, the actual regulatory decrees of the latter detail the requirements that the training staff must certify in order to be able to provide such training. Thus, Royal Decree 34/2008, which regulates certificates of professionality, states that the centres providing training leading to the obtaining of a certificate of professionality must be accredited by the competent labour administration and, in this case, Lanbide. On the body's website, as you say, you can access the catalogue of collaborating training centres. Lanbide-assisted courses are offered in collaborative, public and private centres, such as vocational training institutes, study centres and academies. Both the bodies responsible for these centres and the teachers responsible for conducting the courses are approved by Lanbide. The Royal Decree also states that in order for the centres to be able to provide each of the training modules, the trainers must meet the specific requirements to be included in each of these modules, and their compliance will be verified by accreditation or professional experience in this field. These requirements should ensure the mastery of knowledge and techniques related to the unit of competence to which the module is associated. Thus, it is verified by accreditation or professional experience in the field that the trainer has the necessary skills to act as a teacher in the training module. In order to prove the competence of the teacher required, the teacher or expert must be in possession of the certificate of professionalism as an occupational trainer or of the certificate of professionalism of teaching of vocational training for employment. In addition, those tutors who provide training by means of teletraining, apart from complying with what has been said so far, must be accredited for training of at least 30 hours of experience in this form of teaching and in the use of information and communication technologies. In those training specialties which do not lead to the obtaining of certificates of professionality, these benefits are laid down in the relevant training programmes. In order for a person to be discharged as a training staff authorized to provide a particular specialty, the technical staff of Lanbide responsible for the management and supervision of each training action shall document that the person proposed by a training entity as a teacher meets the requirements set out in order to be able to provide it. And I am surprised by the comment you have made saying that in the self-schools you give Spanish, since from what is the control that from Lanbide is carried out, you have to make sure that the professional who provides that training is really suitable for the training that is given. I also refer to the quality of the vocational training system for employment, and this quality is guaranteed by means of two instruments. One, the registration of training institutions, and except for undertakings carrying out training by their own means, the fact that they are registered prior to the publication of the calls in the register, is a requirement of compulsory compliance for any training institution. So, they have to be. registered in this register. And this record ensures that all entities whose object The social and training requirements are set out in a number of regulations concerning facilities, equipment and human resources, which are laid down in the technical specifications of the training specialist catalogue. The registration is permanently open, and two types of areas are carried out for the purpose of carrying out its task. One, the analysis of the documents submitted in the application. And, also, face-to-face verification of facilities, equipment and part of the human resources destined for the management of the center. What you want to tell me is that Lanbide professionals aren't doing their job? I don't think so. I sincerely believe that the Lanbide professionals check the facilities face-to-face, see if the equipment is adequately equipped and that the conditions, which the human resources allocated to the management of the centre have to have in view of the delivery of the training. In addition, this register is complemented by the catalogue of training specialties. A training specialty, as you know, is the grouping of content, professional skills and technical specifications, which are those conditions for the delivery of training in terms of infrastructure, equipment and human resources. They can be of two types: certificates of professionalism, regulated by the Royal Decree, or also registered. The purpose of the catalogue is to ensure that the training associated with each specialty is homogeneous, ensuring quality standards that allow persons who are trained in Lanbide to be entitled to a degree or, in the case of associated training, to a registered specialty or a diploma. In addition, it determines the hours of training which must have a formative action, which is important not only for teaching, but also for the award of grants. The tests carried out by Lanbide with a view to giving discharge to a training specialty or reforming the existing ones are related to ensuring that they have a meaning for the labour market in terms of employability and are therefore necessary for the qualification of workers. Lanbide therefore carries out these checks. As for the teachers' file, any centre that wants to provide vocational training for the job must have teaching staff who meet the qualifications or professional experience required in the technical specifications described in the training specialties. At the beginning of a subsidized formative action, the technical persons of Lanbide check the working life or academic qualifications of all teachers by means of proof documentation. There is also a competition register which includes that of the certificates of professionalism and Lanbide records the results of the training carried out by all participants in the training actions. The registration also allows, through a system of validations and exemptions, lifelong learning, the correct implementation of guidance on training routes and the rationalization of economic means. And in this way a correct follow-up of the training paths is carried out. The second instrument for the quality of the vocational training system for employment is the prospecting and detention of training needs. The diagnosis of training needs is carried out by means of an analysis methodology, taking into account the results of the various training specialties, the analysis of strategic plans and strategies such as the European 2020 and the consultation of social partners. The diagnosis of training needs was published in 2016 within the call itself, and in 2017, as an area of improvement, they have also been included. It was separated from the calls for grants to allow Lanbide full transparency before the training centres and to allow them all to have the opportunity to be accredited or enrolled in those training specialties. This process is rigorous and is followed for all training actions financed in the various calls financed by the Public Administration. In order to ensure the quality of the training provided, the technical staff of Lanbide carry out a follow-up and evaluation of the training actions through visits to the entities during the course in which they have the opportunity to exchange views, both with the training staff and with the student. During these visits, evaluation and monitoring surveys are carried out and, therefore, in order for us to have quality in employment, we need to have quality in training, and that is what Lanbide is permanently working on. In this respect, Mr Bollain, we are strictly complying with the rules relating to training for employment, thus ensuring the quality of both training and the people who provide it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u69	Mrs. Artolazabal, once again you have not answered me. He hasn't answered me. And check out the Spanish lessons in self-schools as it is your response to a request for information from Elkarrekin Podemos. But look, Mrs Artolazabal, in Lanbide's template there are, as you say, different categories where the formative people are included. The categories are, however, where are people's rights and recognition? Because, as shameful as it may seem, there is no professional recognition of female trainers for employment. There are neither accreditations nor expert files by families, there are no job exchanges or lists, there is no relationship between the trainers and the employment administration, the employment of the trainers is extremely precarious, there is no wage regulation, there is no connection with the professionals by Lanbide, and there are only three aspects: hours of experience, teacher certification and satisfactory evaluations. Three aspects. Mrs Artolazabal, all the weight of the quality of the training lies with the trainers. Trainers who, in addition, lack any kind of support. Look, they are required to perform all the functions of the teaching, but with contracts solely for teaching purposes. And yes, Mrs Artolazabal, the vocational certificate of vocational training for employment has an elaborate programme and is official, but there are no approved basic materials. What does this mean, Mrs. Artolazabal? For each center or teacher uses what he has, can or is willing to pay with the budget for materials. But do you know what's even more serious, Mrs. Artolazabal? The centres have impunity for deciding the conditions of teachers and there is no entity that regulates this. And all this, Mrs Artolazabal, turns to quality and turns to capacity or, rather, to people's inability to access quality training. And this is not something we make up. In a written reply that you yourself provided to us on March 13. It literally says that what an entity pays to each trainer involved in the delivery of a formative action depends on the contractual relationship between the company and the worker. It's not subject to control by Lanbide. But you also said: "The financing of training actions by Lanbide is subject to a simplified cost model, so entities are not required to justify the costs." Why is Mrs Artolazabal not required to justify the costs arising from the delivery of each formative action? Do you think it's normal, Mrs. Artolazabal, to subsidize with unchecked public money? Because for this Government the training centres are responsible for the rights, functions and remuneration of the contracted staff, and Lanbide's only relationship is with the entities and centres, and never with its professionals. And we don't see any big headlines, no big campaigns to control that fraud, Mrs. Artolazabal. According to yourself, if these trainers have any problems or detect any problems in their recruitment or remuneration, they must report to the Labour Inspectorate or the social courts, institutions competent in this area. Do you mean Mrs Artolazabal that Lanbide is not competent in this matter? That Lanbide just washes his hands? Is that how you understand, Mrs Artolazabal, the quality of training for employment? Do you consider it appropriate not to control the use of public funds managed by the Grants Act? Are it the trainers who have to investigate the company agreement in order to negotiate their wages, Mrs Artolazabal? In addition, teaching functions should not only include the provision of courses, but should also take into account the preparation, programming, development and selection of materials on the preparation of examinations and reports. However, and I quote literally, you yourself say in that reply that "in the economic modules that serve to establish the amount with which Lanbide will finance each formative action, no concepts are differentiated as payment per teaching hour, nor per hour dedicated to the preparation of classes or teaching material". Why have you decided, Mrs Artolazabal, not to specify concepts of teaching time or preparation time? Don't you want to know the working conditions of trainers when training actions are carried out with public funds? Or do you even care? Do you not believe that this has a negative impact on the quality of employment in the training provided? Mrs Artolazabal, we obviously do not understand how your department gives the quality of training for employment. That is why we would like to know how it will ensure the quality of training for employment. We have it clear: through a body of accredited, structured and recognized trainers. What about you, Mrs. Artolazabal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u71	I, Mr Bollain, believe that you have made a number of accusations which I certainly do not consent to, because of course, to accuse me that public money is not controlled, that fraud is facilitated and that Lanbide is cleansed of his hands, of course I believe that it is neither true nor true. For us as important as for you is the quality and training that we provide, and what we do care about and we have been doing so is a control of the training actions that are carried out from the technical spaces, from the professionalism of the trainers, from their curricula so that they can continue to teach, working also according to the insertion of these courses in view of the programming and the diagnosis, which is very important. The conditions they have are important, but I must also make it clear to you, Mr Bollain, that we are neither in a concert scheme nor in a delegated payment scheme, that we are in a subsidy scheme subject to the rules, and that what we are doing is, when proposing the training to be given in the field of vocational training for employment, we are checking the agreements and, according to the existing agreement, we are financing the teaching hours, distinguishing whether they are private or concerted centres. But this does not seem to him enough, because we are subject to the subsidy regime. This is something that has to be made clear to you and, moreover, this is something that has been being done since it was INEM, since we had Egailan and since Lanbide was formed. More than EUR 30 million is earmarked for this Government to promote measures related to vocational training for employment, more than Mr Bollain, I would like you to acknowledge that the training that is being carried out in Lanbide is a training that is being monitored, monitored and if not, come to my office one day and tell me what are the courses in which these situations are taking place so that the improvements that we need to make can be made. Because, Mr Bollain, I do trust in the professionalism of the Lanbide workers, I think they do a good job, I think they do a job that is sometimes very questioned and that I believe it ensures the quality of the training that has been given since Lanbide. And, moreover, this also has to lead us to know what is, in some way, the impression that both professionals. I have also asked about the question you were asking us, whether there was any specific problem with the trainers, with the teaching staff, and I have been told that we have no awareness that we have a problem with the trainers. I would also like to see recognition of the quality that is being given, and this is indeed being done by the users themselves of the training and also by the professionals who provide it. And that is because of proper work both in design, in content planning and in the requirement that professionals who are hired by companies collaborating with Lanbide perform, and have profiles adequate enough to be able to carry out these trainings. When the training activities are completed, the technical staff of Lanbide conducts a training action visit to verify the conditions of the centre, and pass the final survey to the participants to request an overall evaluation of the course. The final visit also completes a questionnaire for the evaluation of the quality of training actions. In addition, if a deficiency is detected, the centre is notified and recorded in the final evaluation of the course. Therefore, Mr Bollain, I think we need to be rigorous in proposing improvement measures. We are indeed working for the quality of the training that has been done since Lanbide. Do not change the feeling that there is no control in Lanbide because it is not true. Yes, we are working taking into account the opinion of the teaching staff and the tutors on the development of the courses, and I believe that we are not in favour of Lanbide and training if we generate this halo of doubts about the quality of the courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interfection, the Tinisha Guanche Suáz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Emplegue and Society, to find employment for the labourers, to socialize, and to secure the revenues of money." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. We are here today because since 19 March, Mrs Artolazabal, you are identifying people without an impact report, without a risk assessment – regrettable that you are not listening to me – without information, without taking into account the guidelines of the Basque Agency for Data Protection, failing to comply with the European regulation that comes into force today without complexes. Because it turns out that you facilitate Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, a circular that says: "On May 19, 2018, the second phase of the biometric identification project in Lanbide begins, involving ten offices where the biometric identification of at least 30 users per day is being collected, sending mailing A little below this information, that same circular says: "We are working on the development of the corresponding instruction". And I, from concern and respect, ask you, Mrs Artolazabal: What measures is the Government taking in the implementation of the digital footprint to people unemployed to comply with these regulations? But I also take the opportunity to ask you whether you endorse the words of Mrs Arregi on 30 April 2015, who said that the implementation of the fingerprint in the future could be a way to identify us before the Administration, but that we can and must take steps to ensure that it works well before we start it to identify the people who perceive the GIR, who cannot forget that it is in its entirety a group that deserves special protection. And if you consider it consistent to endorse Mrs Arregi's claims based on protection and, at the same time, to implement a series of pilot measures that today do not have the support they should have. As a rule, but above all as a matter of ethics and responsibility, Mrs Artolazabal. I'm worried I'm staying. I do not know if you have the custom of seeing the appearances of this Parliament. But on 15 March, Mrs Uria Etxebarria, the current director of the Basque Data Protection Agency, warned us, referring to the 2012 opinion of the working group on Article 29 of the European Regulation, the following in relation to the possible risks of using the fingerprint as an identification mechanism. First, the use of the biometric identification measure can lead to a gradual decrease in citizens' rights. Two, the use of the fingerprint will not be proportional if the same purpose can be achieved by a less invasive means. Three, the use of the fingerprint or any other interference in data protection in a democratic society can only be used to protect an important public interest. Four, the use of the fingerprint can never take place without the consent of the people, without their manifestation of free, specific and informed will and, moreover, explicit. Mrs Uria said that there was no use in tacit matters, that she would not be considered free if it was compulsory for her to accept certain procedures. In the use of measures such as fingerprinting, consent is considered weaker if there is an imbalance between employer and employee, so it is essential that there are sufficient guarantees that such consent is truly free. It also told us that this measure can have a greater impact on the dignity, protection of privacy and deprivation of the most vulnerable, such as minors, older adults or persons with disabilities. And all of this is based on three fundamental risks. The first, the usurpation of identity, identification and authentication; the deviation from the purpose other than that which motivated its collection or treatment and, third, the violation of these data. And I ask you, what do you say to all this, Mrs. Artolazabal? I continue with Mrs Uria's assertions. In addition to the above, he told us that biometric data are considered a special category of personal data and, in particular, that, according to Article 9 of the regulation that comes into force today, it is entitled "Treatment of special categories of personal data", the following. It is up to the legislator – he understood the Mrs Uria, by drawing up a law– to establish the legal basis for the processing of personal data by public authorities, on the basis of Article 47 of that Regulation. Two, in the case of special categories of data, which I have already explained to you are occupied by these which we are dealing with today, the measures taken must be covered by a specific law. In conclusion, Mrs Artolazabal, by both the European regulation and the Organic Data Protection Act, the rules state that the treatment of this type of special categories must have special regulation. And where is he, I ask him. Because if you don't know, ladies and gentlemen of this House, and anyone who is listening to us from outside, since last March 19th, in a large calculation, 30 people a day, 10 offices in 40 days, we have more than 10,000 people identified by the fingerprint without a regulation that supports it. That means, Mrs Artolazabal, even if you do not mind me, that more than 10,000 people have been given a measure without solving legal insecurity, without having the information or the guarantee that their consent is free, informed and voluntary. Can you show me the guarantees? I doubt it and I doubt it very much at this point. Mrs. Uria stated that there was doubt about the voluntary relationship between employee and employer. What to say between an RGI perceptor or an unemployed person and Lanbide. Because are you aware of the risks to which you are subjecting the more than 270,000 people who, according to Lanbide, today consider themselves unemployed? Are they aware that they are acting, at least, very close to the limit of the regulations? I, by chance, transfer you, using again the ideas shared by the Basque Data Protection Agency, which I understand that, as the highest authority in this matter, you are not going to question, a few things. The first, that a fingerprint cannot be changed or revoked, is unique for all services and in case something happens, commits the identification of the person in all services for the rest of his life. That there are very limited possibilities of modification of the measure and if, as in the case of Lanbide, it applies by taking the ten fingerprints, Mrs Artolazabal, I dare say that that is practically impossible. Third, the fingerprint is comfortable, yes, but not much safer than other measures. Fourthly, an assessment of the impact on the fundamental right of data protection is necessary and mandatory, because what protects the regulation is for people and for this reason such measures cannot be implemented madly. Finally, the storage of biometric identification measures is a very critical issue. Faced with this, data experts recommend not storing them, but that it be the interested person himself who keeps them, which, of course, does not happen in Lanbide; you surrender them, or collect them directly with Izenpe, a private company that, using textually the words of the director of the Basque Data Protection Agency, "is a magnificent company, very valuable, but has no place, nor role in being guarantor in the public network, nor in the evaluation of the conduct of public administrations". I repeat, more than 10,000 people identified without law, without impact reports, without risk assessments, without information and with posters that, like this one, announces to the public that you have already done this from the footprint; they say that it will be mandatory and gives them whatever Parliament says, what social groups say and, most importantly, what the Basque Agency for Data Protection says. They say so to the point of saying on the radio, Mr Belandia, that it will take until the last consequences. And I wonder, is this a threat? You don't care about the law? Or will you also tell me about the villa to throw balloons out, Mrs. Artolazabal? The point is that we are here without turning to an ethical look, to address and accompany those who are unemployed and, therefore, in the precariousness of those who have at least one of their rights violated. That is not to have the slightest respect for the rights of the citizenry to which you too owe, although in the obsession with being a police officer of poverty, you sometimes forget.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tinishara. Artolazabal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs Guanche, well, as you know, the use of the footprint corresponds and responds to the incorporation of new technologies in improving the management of different organizations and administrations. A point to your question. The implementation of the fingerprint in Lanbide's services is not only for the unemployed, it is for all services provided in terms of inclusion, training for employment, accompaniment, in addition to its use by the staff of the entity. The new General Data Protection Regulation arrives today, Friday, to the countries of the European Union, to update European legislation on the subject, seeking to give the user an active participation on who has or what to do with their data. The regulation will update the previous directive of 1995, which was born in a Europe without social networks and with a percentage of Internet users much lower than in 2018, which amounted to 250 million people. The Basque Government has already begun to take the measures required to implement the regulation to which you refer. In the area of data protection, the current autonomous regulations are those provided for in the Basque Parliament Act 2/2004. However, certain questions need to be clarified as to the regulatory framework which results from application in the Basque Autonomous Community. EU Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April is directly applicable. The regulation, despite its direct applicability characteristic, may in practice require other complementary internal rules to fully implement its application and, in this regard, the State legislator has considered that the adaptation to the General Data Protection Regulation, as provided for in Article 99, requires the elaboration of a new organic law replacing the one currently in force. As a result of the above, a draft organic law on the protection of personal data is being processed in the General Courts, which, according to its first article, aims to adapt the Spanish legal system to the European Union Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of their personal data and the free movement of such data, and to supplement its provisions. This scenario has determined that the Basque Government, today, has only adopted organisational cut-off measures that accompany the aforementioned forecasts, pending the final adaptation of the state legal system to the European regulation. Thus, in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country was published Decree 7/2018 of 10 April, which adapts the distribution of areas within the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, being attributed to the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government to obtain the new figure of the data protection officer. Also yesterday, the amendment of the Organic Structure Decree of the department was published in the same Bulletin of the Basque Country, which creates and regulates the basic aspects of this figure of the data protection delegate. In addition, an agreement is drawn up for approval by the Governing Council to examine and issue the necessary internal instructions for the organisational dimensioning and clarification of the various roles for data protection laid down in the European Regulation. Lanbide will also appoint a person responsible in this area, directly linked the data protection officer of the Basque Government. Law 39/2015 of 1 October on the common administrative procedure for public administrations deepens the implementation of e-government, with the aim of achieving more agile and transparent procedures. These procedures, according to the law, must respond to the current needs of society and lead to a necessary administrative simplification for citizens. The correct identification is defined as an obligation of the public administrations in order to verify the personality of the persons concerned, so that they can validly perform any action provided for in the administrative procedure. In the case of natural persons, the identifying data that are objects of verification are the name and surnames that match your ID, TIE ID card or passport. To facilitate relations with the administration, it was essential to enable a simple, rapid and secure system of identification, authentication and citizenship signature. For this reason, the provision of valid electronic identification and signature systems is analysed in accordance with the current legislation and allowing better exercise of rights, as well as the formal fulfilment of citizens' obligations. At present, biometric recognition systems have become highly relevant in environments that require the identification of users. This is done in all administrative, sports, cultural, educational, labour and care fields. Biometry is an automatic method of recognition of people based, as you say, on unique physical or behavioural characteristics, which allows a person to identify and authenticate on the basis of a set of recognizable and verifiable data, which are unique and specific to him or her. The operation is easy and simple, and allows the accreditation of identity quickly, efficiently and securely. As identification and electronic signature are inexcusable elements in the implementation of electronic services, the Basque Government must cover them so that users of the services can use them with full security and guarantees. With the aim of putting at the service of the organisations the necessary means to enable citizens and businesses to relate to each other and to the administrations, by accessing public services with guarantee of integrity and confidentiality, the Basque Government and the deputies, through their respective computer societies, constituted the commercial society Izenpe SA, totally public, capital 100 % public; it is not private, Mrs Guanche. Izenpe acts as a common and own electronic identification and signature system and, in this context, Izenpe has developed an electronic application that incorporates more secure identification factors based on the collection of biometric data. The magnitude of the applications managed by Lanbide and the volume of persons dealt with face-to-face and in other collaborating entities in the provision of employment services obliges the implementation of digitization processes that facilitate the exercise of their activity, allowing the replacement of essential forms and repeated by more effective procedures and mechanisms, allowing users of the agency to receive all services optimally. Thus, like other administrations, companies or organisations, Lanbide will establish digital identification by means of biometric data after insertion and registration. All interested persons are being informed and will be informed beforehand of the new method of identification, its meaning, the date of effects and guarantees, as well as of the means available to them to carry out the implementation of the new model in an orderly manner. With regard to data protection, it should be noted that biometric data take into account personal data, and their processing is therefore subject to compliance with the legal requirements laid down mainly in Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal Data. In addition, as you indicate, this matter is affected by the new data protection regulation which enters into force today and which incorporates the classification of biometric data that is now considered to be special category data. The new identification system complies with the legal provisions on the protection of personal data, complies with the legal provisions. Whenever the data processed is adequate for the purposes for which they are collected and the process will have prior and explicit consent. Currently, the collection of biometric data for digital identification is done on a voluntary basis in the offices of Lanbide, and we have proposed that the seventh additional provision of the amendment to Article 2(3) of Law 3/2011 on Lanbide should include for these purposes that Lanbide uses biometric systems for persons who use and benefit from its services and services in accordance with the specifications derived from data protection legislation. The biometric data obtained shall be recorded in the identity file of Izenpe, who shall be responsible for it in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999. On 26 October 2017, Izenpe and Lanbide signed an agreement for the implementation of electronic means of identification based on the collection of biometric data, under which Lanbide acts as Izenpe's registration entity for the issuance of digital and electronic identification measures. Furthermore, Mrs Guanche, with regard to the risks arising from sensitive data, Izenpe, as controller, will adapt the appropriate measures in order to ensure compliance with the requirements set out in the European Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u77	Well, Mrs. Artolazabal, first, eskerrik asko for class. I came with the duties done and after listening to her my concern does not descend, but ascends. Because you have not only not answered me, I insist, but it seems that you have not done yours and it seems to imply that nothing else is going to be done. And I ask again, what measures are being taken to comply with the implementation of the fingerprint with the European regulation that comes into force today? And I tell you that there are not enough measures and I also tell you that I am not coming out of my astonishment. You are surfing European legislation without complexes and listening deafly to the functions of the Basque Data Protection Agency. Mrs Uria told us that the agency had officially received a request for an opinion on 16 February 2018 from the Vice-Councillor for Employment and Social Policy. In the communication to the agency it was announced that they intended to initiate a procedure for the elaboration of a general provision, to which the agency replied that the processing of this call to the agency must be done when the rule is in force, without, of course, prejudice to the consultations that may be taken up. The rule, Mrs Artolazabal, which has not passed through this Parliament. Mrs Uria also said to us: "It does not seem that the process will have the explicit consent laid down in the regulation, since from the order issued by the vice-counsel it follows that it is intended to establish mandatory". From his statements in El Correo, those of Mr Belandia are no longer deduced, it is clear that they want to make it compulsory. We didn't come out of our astonishment. We will not go into whether you are considering it from an ethical perspective or not, if not that you are not meeting the requirements. Article 35 of the European Regulation, which has been amended more or less, comes into force today and has an obligation to comply with it, says that you have to submit an impact report on this measure. Where is he? Where's the risk analysis? Are you aware that this is an obligation and that the Basque Data Protection Agency has already informed you of this? Is this the government of the common good and formality? There are many cases, as you said, in which digital signature and identification are applied, but these have a basis that regulates them and this you are implementing in Lanbide does not have. Legality, proportion, adequacy, always weighing the concrete situation, weighing the Why and he for what. In the case of Unemployed people, you have to be especially careful about the vulnerability of the data, and today in Lanbide, with this document, Mrs Artolazabal, which is posted on your website, is not fulfilled. And it is not complied with because it cannot be presumed that consent has been freely granted, because it also does not allow separate authorization of the different operations of data processing, nor does it allow each person to give his or her consent for some documents and not for others. In addition, the right of the GIR to sign this document is made conditional. For this reason, you with Lanbide are committing at least one irregularity. Moreover, this does not explain that it is a power of the user, it does not inform how the right can be revoked. It ends with an extensive clause, contrary to the law, that the user and his family members are providing a blank cheque and this applies today as well as his pilot project without legal backing, Mrs Artolazabal. This was said by Ararteko in his report on GIR, and we demonstrated it here. And he's had a few complaints from a lot of social groups these days before the Basque Data Protection Agency. Finally, to remind you, I would remind you of the most important aspect of today's inquiry that Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure states that "in order to ensure that consent has been given freely, it must not constitute a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data in a specific case where there is an imbalance between the data subject and the controller". Here I'll leave you, you'll know the responsibility you have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u79	This is not the first time we have come to this House with the subject of footprint. And, of course, I believe that we have given you all the details that we thought were sufficient to understand the terms on which the footprint is being voluntarily implemented in these offices so that, at the moment when this House considers it appropriate, in the proposed amendment to Income Guarantee Income which we have submitted, in which the amendment to that article is associated, which I quote from my first intervention in Lanbide, is a requirement that people approaching Lanbide must meet. But in the meantime he is volunteering and, therefore, the people who are approaching Lanbide are doing so in a totally normalized way, where they are being explained what it is, what the requirements are, what the consequences of carrying out this informed consent are and, therefore, they are doing so in a totally normalized way. Modernisation of administrations means updating resources and adapting new technologies, and that is what Lanbide is doing. Don't talk to me about ethical or other issues. We are applying the new technologies with the aim of improving the organization and providing a higher quality service. The use of the footprint has spread and spread without any problem in a lot of organizations and administrations. Precisely, the members of this House, when they were part of the parliamentary delegation that went on a recent trip to Honduras last year, also had to identify themselves through this system, and nothing happened. And they have also been given access to this Parliament's garage to identify the fingerprint, and nothing is happening either. Therefore, it is Mrs Guanche – if she allows me and lets me continue in the turn of my word – of a modern tool with an increasingly widespread use that must be used with sufficient guarantees. Of course we are on it, Mrs Guanche. I have no doubt that our services and the services of the Government are working to bring the transposition of European legislation into line with all the initiatives that this Government is putting in place, which respect the privacy of people, and always respecting the rights of citizens and complying with applicable legislation. I insist, the requirement of this control is based on the improvement of any of the services provided by Lanbide, on the improvement that is incorporated into the possibilities of the use of digital identity to have an additional advantage for users approaching Lanbide. Do not see it as another issue that has to do with another set of measures. This is simply a modern tool that will help people relate in a more appropriate, agile and more quality way with us. We are aware of the special protection category that must be granted to the data we handle. The same legislation also talks about data and emphasizes the special protection data that health data, social assistance data, have to have. And from the responsibility we have, from the very beginning, we are paying special attention to the definition of the whole process and to ensuring the protection of this data. And for that we work with Izenpe. Public administrations are immersed, as I say, in an area of modernization and improvement, adapting management formulas, digital and telematic formulas that make the services we provide more efficient, agile and based on quality parameters. We need to simplify and speed up the procedures that can be carried out in a telematic way, and for that we are giving a more rapid and appropriate response using these new formulas of relationship and telematic initiatives. When we talk about the economic benefits, which are the basic sustenance of some people, the fact of avoiding processing and resolving it as soon as possible, your request is of particular importance, and this biometric data is also worth it. Taking into account the number of people who can benefit from this agility, the measure also makes more sense, since technological progress contributes to better management. It is an improvement in management that will promote the quality of services provided by Lanbide, Mrs Guanche. And we are clear that the European Data Protection Regulation will be binding on it from today, and it considers biometric data sensitive, believes that its use should be limited to the areas of social protection, labour law or public interest and also for better control. And this requirement will be made, in any case, respecting the rights of the citizenry and scrupulously complying with the legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popilagoic Groups of Menals, Plantery, and Prince of Housing Houses, about the twenty-17th report on the area under the Gastian land which is in danger of infecting the nitrates." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u81	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, Mr. Arriola. URA says on its website that since 1998 the Basque Water Agency – it will allow me a correction, first Water Directorate, and since 2008 the Basque Water Agency – carries out a monitoring of the state of the waters of the area vulnerable to pollution by nitrates of agricultural origin in Vitoria, with the main objective of knowing the evolution of nitrate concentration and determining the degree of effectiveness of the measures implemented, whose results are published annually. The 2017 report on the monitoring of the three sectors that make up the area vulnerable to nitrate contamination of the Vitoria water mass reflects a significant increase in nitrate content at most control points compared to previous years' values. The report continues to say that the widespread increase in nitrate content in all sectors appears to be conditioned by the 2017 precipitation regime, particularly in December. It surprises this justification and especially in Vitoria, where it usually rains in December. The vulnerable area has bimonthly and quarterly controls at its assessment points. But the report itself also says that the analyses carried out at the 27 points sampled in the annual campaign reflect a general increase in nitrate content over the previous year. Seven exceed the value of 50 milligrams/litre, eight are between 40 and 50 milligrams/litre and only five show values below 25 milligrams/litre. And our question is: What is your assessment, Mr. Counsellor, of this striking replenishment of nitrates in the groundwater mass of the vulnerable area of Vitoria?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u83	Mrs López de Ocariz, I cannot tell you much more than you have said. But, well, clarify some concepts and share some issues. I think we share that nitrate pollution is one of the most serious problems affecting the groundwater mass of Vitoria and we know that it originates from the intense agricultural activity that has been occurring in the Alavesa Plain. This is why, in implementation of European legislation, very serious issues were declared in those areas affected by this type of pollution and the corresponding control plans and actions were developed in them. This is the case of the Hydrogeological Unit of Vitoria-Gasteiz, with the three sectors you have commented on. And indeed, in the annual report on the monitoring of the vulnerable zone of 17, carried out by URA, there is a significant increase in nitrate content at most aquifer control points and, as you said, the document itself states that the increase that has occurred is due to the consequence that there has been an abnormally high record of precipitation in Vitoria during the months of November and December. It is true that in Vitoria it rains in December, but also the truth is that the increase in rainfall last December, November and December has been 80% higher than the average. That's what happened. Studies on groundwater mass indicate a direct relationship between precipitation regime and nitrate concentration, so that the highest levels of nitrates occur in times of intense rainfall. And this is due to the process of washing and dragging the aquifer as a result of the rains, which drag the existing nitrogen into the land. This is what appears in URA's report. It is clear and precise during the days prior to the December sampling. Between 24 November and 16 December, a precipitation of 130 millimetres is collected at the Foronda weather station, i.e. 130 litres per square metre, poured in just 20 days and this is what has happened. The truth is that we must put these records in the context in which I have commented to you, but without ceasing to follow up on the time and control that we must continue to do permanently on this important aquifer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u85	Counselor. As I said before, it was in 1998 when the Vulnerable Areas Declaration was published, in accordance with European regulations and the Royal Decree of the Government of Spain, and in 2000 the Action Plan on Vulnerable Areas was published. And it was in 2008, given the high concentrations of nitrates that that year, when the implementation of the vulnerable area of Vitoria was carried out and the action plans were updated. Do you think this rush is only due to the rains? I wonder, Mr. Counsellor, are you thinking of making an assessment of the action plans, also of the vulnerable areas? Have you done any tastings at any other nearby points? Are there any other elements that can show that the field of action, of surveillance, needs to be broadened? Counselor, only rain seems to me to be a very simple argument. I believe that we are talking about a high concentration of nitrogen, which is an obligation of your Government to monitor and be aware of these developments. From 2008 to this year there has not been a rebound. It seems to me that, in addition to the rains, which, as I say, is something common in this autonomous community, you, as a competent administration, have to be thinking about something else, and that is what I want to ask you, if you are thinking of updating the action plans, of evaluating the areas of the environment of these areas declared vulnerable in order to have some elements of judgment, rather than simply increasing the rains. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u87	Mrs. López de Ocariz. You have asked me to make an assessment of the data and the assessment is in the report itself, which concludes that, despite this significant resumé of 17, the historical series of nitrate contents in the environment of the vulnerable area of Vitoria's groundwater mass continues to maintain a decreasing trend at most checkpoints, and this is a scientific finding. Now, it is true that this trend towards improvement does not fully satisfy the department and that is why we are going to continue with the thorough monitoring of the control of this aquifer, in order to try to minimize its pollution. This is something that is not only up to URA, which does the water control work; it is also up to the Department of Agriculture, which is responsible for controlling the use of fertilizers and, logically, has to do so and, therefore, good management of what agriculture is, in a more responsible way, must also be carried out in order to ensure that this also leads to a smaller condition for the aquifer. You were telling me if we're looking at changing or updating control plans. Of course, there is one part that has to do with agriculture, another part from the Department of Environment, and, on the advice of URA, we are indeed analysing the expansion of the vulnerability zone in the Lantarón area as well. That's what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made of the Environmental Planet and Housing Department, about trashing the wrecks of Gipulia in the tutelage." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u89	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning. Counselor, in 2008 the Bizkaia Diputation reached an agreement with the Gipuzkoa Diputation in order to be able to dump the Gipuzcoana garbage in the landfill of Igorre. 10 years later, we have both parliaments looking for a new agreement, on this occasion to dump the garbage in a landfill in Mallabia. It's been over 10 years and we haven't made any progress. I would say that on the issue of urban waste management we are going backwards. Our institutions are still looking for landfills, rather than focusing on upgrading recycling, composting and selective collection. My first question when I came to Parliament came to your department to see if they were going to assume the government's competence in coordinating and planning policies on urban waste, and you told me that that was the competence of the parliaments. And I ask you, seeing the stalemate in which this issue is becoming, do you still think that the Basque Government does not have to do any coordination work on urban waste? LEHENDAKARIA: To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, let me first of all make a point of the statement you make in the justification of your question, in the sense that the landfill of the company Betearte in Mallabia is only suitable for the storage of inert industrial waste. This company has an integrated environmental authorization for the dumping of non-hazardous waste, which, as you know, are those that do not pose a health risk, a category that includes inert industrial waste, but also urban or municipal waste, construction or demolition waste, and non-hazardous waste that can be used for recovery. The company had specialized in the management of inert industrial waste, but requested the inclusion in its environmental authorisation of a new waste code, in this urban case, and the Vice-Council of the Environment, as is its obligation, analysed the documentation submitted, made the necessary checks and decided that the receipt of waste of domestic origin did not imply a substantial modification of the current authorisation. Well, as far as the question that I am concerned, you know very well what competence the Basque Government has in this area, which is to draw up the planning framework for urban waste management in Euskadi and also to define the technical requirements for the location, installation and operation of waste management infrastructures. In the exercise of this competence, environmental authorisations are issued for the planned management infrastructures in the historical territories, because it is for them, among other issues, to develop the planning-framework for the management of urban solid waste, through the corresponding fora plans, as well as the impulse of supramunicipal infrastructures for the management of waste.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u91	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u92	Counselor. You have read me the skills in urban waste management, but you have forgotten to read above. The General Law on the Environment states, in article 8.2, that "in order to ensure coherence and environmental policy, it will be up to the environmental body – i.e. its department – to exercise the powers of coordination which the general interest demands". And here the issue is that the government's renunciation of coordination is not only pushing the country back in the area of urban waste management, but also directly affecting the general interest in two key aspects. The first, that laws are not being complied with, and the second, that public resources are being used very poorly. Indeed, the law is not being complied with, because both Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have waste plans that are expired right now, and neither Bizkaia's plan envisages that they reach Bizkaia waste from other territories, nor Gipuzkoa's plan envisages using infrastructure from other territories. Therefore, the law is being violated. But, in addition, that landfill to which you refer, there was a fire last August that denounced this parliamentary group. It is a landfill that is possibly not prepared, no matter how much authorizations say so, it is not prepared to admit urban waste. And the law is being violated by the passivity and complicity of his Government. But, moreover, public resources are being used very poorly, because if, as it seems to be, Bizkaia has offered Gipuzkoa to incinerate in Zabalgarbi 70,000 tons of garbage, that means that this option gives solution to the total surplus of the remaining fraction of the GHK waste consortium. I mean, this means that Zubieta's incinerator is not necessary. And if it is not necessary, if it is not necessary the incinerator of Zubieta, because Zabalgarbi has the ability to take all the waste that is the remaining fraction and that, therefore, are neither compostable nor recyclable, then, if the incinerator is not necessary, it is competition of the Basque Government – and I will read back to you its competences – because you have competence in the framework planning of the management of urban solid waste. I mean, you have to say how many incinerators and how many landfills this country needs to not be wasting public money on unnecessary infrastructure. And today, we're going to spend 1 billion euros, 1 billion euros, in an incinerator that, with the data in hand, is not necessary. And in addition, you are in breach of the electoral promises that your political group made in 2015, when Mr. Denis Itxaso stated that, in order to take the decision to recover the incineration project, a study had to be carried out in advance to justify its construction and that it was good to reach agreements to create joint infrastructures that would make it efficient. I mean, not only do we not need the incinerator, but you promised to do an efficiency job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u94	So let's see, we wanted to get to this. Zubieta's incinerator is not necessary. This we wanted to get to seems, I don't know, with this question that you ask me. It will be necessary or will not be necessary because you say so, I imagine that that will be the question ultimately, when we are talking about solving a point problem today, a point problem, and that is what the outlaws of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia are talking about. A problem that involves the treatment of a part of the remaining fraction of Gipuzkoa waste and the possibility of or proceed to dumping in this Mallabia landfill or other solutions that are talking to each other is discussed. I do not understand that this point-by-point issue is the subject of competition, of planning-framework for the management of urban solid waste at the level of Euskadi which is the responsibility of this department. The role that we, as the Basque Government, have to play is none other than to respect this exercise of dialogue and negotiation between the deputies of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. And that's not just out of respect for their skills, but because, as popular wisdom says, "Don't go where they don't call you." However, if both parties, or any of them, request our department or make any intervention in this matter, have no doubt that we will do better jobs to find the solution that is possible, either directly or through the Euskadi Urban Waste Coordination Body. And, Mr Becerra, the issue of Gipuzkoa waste is not something new, it will have been 10 years or more, but in recent times it is progressing. It's not something new, as I told you, it comes from many years ago, but fortunately this is going to be resolved within a year or so. And by the way, when garbage was traveling through Navarre, Cantabria or France, no one suggested that our department had to act using its coordination tasks. So you seem to be talking about tourism, rather than the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Pogula, made to the head of the Board of Education by Louis Briñas of Bilbo, the works of the refuge of HLHI." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Look, counselor, it may seem to you that this is perhaps a very timely topic to bring you to this plenary, but believe me that for the parents of the Luis Briñas College in Santutxu, for the teacher, for the boys and girls of that center, it is a fundamental theme. A fundamental issue for many reasons that I will explain below. Fundamental for the time they've been waiting for. Fundamental because of the need to provide security for a work that, as I say, will be intended for children. Fundamental for them to see that the institutions, that the Basque Government respond to their demands. And we will be attentive to your answer. And this interpellation will allow us, if it is not satisfactory, to make a motion for the House to act quickly, because this matter, or part of it at least, should be resolved before September. At present, at the Luis Briñas school, 450 students are studying in primary school, and 250 in secondary school. It is a building that was designed by the architect Pedro Ispizua that has great heritage value, but that same heritage value, which is undoubtedly important, has its counterpart, and is that what can be done in it has its limitations. For example, no attachments can be made to break the structure of the building and this forced a covered courtyard to be in semi-earthly structure. This covered courtyard was a work long demanded by parents, students and teachers, because not having a roof forced them to do, when it rained, the recreation had to be done in the corridors and in the gym, causing noises that I myself could see in one of the visits I had made to the center and that they have reached even 90 decibels at their peaks, as reflected in a health report prepared by the Basque Government itself. For this reason, in 2013 for the 2014 budget, we tabled and adopted an amendment calling for a budget line to be provided for this covered yard, a yard that, as I say, would allow children to use it regardless of weather conditions. In the end, what was to be a courtyard became a covered polysport track, whose works began in November 2016 and which led to the creation of a commission, the Aterpe commission, for the follow-up of that work. And the first thing this committee could verify is that they lacked bathrooms and locker rooms, which, counselor, I have to tell you is shocking at least. The normal thing is that a sports track has a space where you can change and where you can shower the children. And whether it was a sports track or a yard, it's normal that I could have a few bathrooms. Because, do you know lady counselor, the path you have to walk from being in that yard to the nearest bathroom? I do know because I've been there and it's certainly a long way. Whether you're in a class or in the playground, between you go back and forth you're either lost or the class or the playground. For this reason, an initiative was presented in this House, which was approved on 16 October 2017 in the Education Commission, urging the Basque Government to equip the project with these bathrooms and locker rooms. But once again in the government what this Parliament says is not taken into account. The question was also taken to Ararteko and not only does it seem that they do not listen to us in the Basque Parliament, but also the Ararteko literally says that "several demands had to be made until he got an answer." And so, on March 28, 2018, they have finally received in the office of the institution of Ararteko a report from the director of Infrastructures, Resources and Technologies in which it is pointed out that the procurement regulations did not allow a contractual modification and that, therefore, after the completion of the current work, the most suitable location of bathrooms and dressing rooms would be studied, a new project of execution for the subsequent tender of the corresponding work would be carried out. The truth is that I see the work, I see it in situ And there is another doubt that arises because the city council has said that it will not accept the work until the deficiencies of it are solved. Because, because the issue of bathrooms and locker rooms is important, it is even more important that of the deficiencies that have been contemplated in the project, that have prevented or will cause the city council, until they are resolved, will not accept the work, and that they put in danger that in September this covered patio can be used by the boys and girls of the school Luis Briñas. Since the commission, as I said, the Aterpe commission that was set up at the school, a number of deficiencies were seen and, above all, security problems were reported to the Basque Government. And another of the questions I want to raise to you, Counsellor, is: Does this seem normal to you? Does it seem to you that it is the committee, a committee set up in a school, that has to tell the Basque Government how the work, the deficiencies and the security problems of the same are taking place? Because it is really true – and I will now refer to it – that your department issues a report, but it issues a report because from the committee itself you are told what are these defects and deficiencies, they go there and, once there, they draw up the report. And it is true, until January 9, 2018, from his department, specifically from the person responsible for works, installations and maintenance, is made the report to which I referred about the works pending to be executed and the deficiencies of the work on the covered polysports track. Problems and deficiencies that can be seen in plain sight, that you don't even have to be a technician in the matter to realize them, because, believe me, I was there 15 days ago without being any expert in constructions and works, I could see them perfectly. And deficiencies that are especially important if we consider who the work is directed to, to little boys and girls. Because many of these deficiencies compromise infrastructure security itself. And I'll explain myself. The lining of the facade and doors are made of cutting material. If you pass your hands through those doors, you cut off your fingers, fixed. Do you really think that a boy and a girl can be said "Don't touch the door, and you won't touch it"? Their technicians should have followed up on the work and if they had, they would have realized that those doors should never have been placed. Another issue is the wall of the slopes that go down to the covered track, which reach an important height. An important height, a wall that was easily scalable. As the company was told that it did not have security, a mesh was placed, a network like those in the football fields. Same. If you lean on it you can beat it perfectly, and if you wear scissors you break it. Is that all the security that's going to be given to the infrastructure? That same mesh, that same net, is also the one that has been placed throughout the perimeter of the wall bordering the upper part of the building of the outer courtyard, which also has an important height with respect to the street. And what are we going to trust? What are we going to tell the kids that they can't climb, that they can't cut the net, that they can't lean on it, and that the kids are going to pay attention? Are we really going to leave the security of the building in that, in the fulfillment of the children? Or shouldn't we put the means in place so that that doesn't happen? It is true that in addition to those, there are other minor shortcomings that I will not say here because I do not extend. But despite this report, despite the security problems, I want to ask you, because that is what has come to our ears. The Basque Government has received the work. It's true, he hasn't returned to the company that made him bail, but he's received it. And these deficiencies have said that they will be resolved not by the company to which the work was entrusted. It is going to be on another one that I imagine will have to pay for the solution of these shortcomings. I would like to ask you whether that is the case, Madam Counsellor, whether you are going to have to pay another different company to solve the deficiencies that the previous company did and that it did not solve and that, if it had done a correct follow-up, perhaps there would not have been. Is this the way the Basque Government acts, the usual way of acting? This, as I say, has caused the Bilbao City Council to say that it is not going to accept the work. That is why we want to ask you: How and when are these deficiencies going to be solved? Are they going to settle before September? What are the purposes of your Government in relation to the resolution of these security problems that have been seen at the Luis Briñas de Santutxu school in Bilbao?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u97	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u98	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Miss Llanos, according to the government program of this legislation, is the essential commitment to this department to substructures suitable, modern, and especially accessible. Besides, we believe that education in general is one of the principal factors of the development of our society, and also the essential factor in the production of economic and well-being is to strengthen the model of economic growth and increase the competitiveness of our production structure. In order to challenge a suitable, modern, safe, and accessible structure, the plan of improvement constitutes the axis supported by our action. Within the commitments to build, reform, and adapt these substructures, we have the following operations or operations in progress. First of all, to acquire new education structures, and to spread them out, within the scope of the plan to improve the infrastructure for the First and Second Education and the Professional Education. The second initiative is the improvement of the underground, which will help to improve the educational system's quality. The improvement of facility, connected to their security, is two indispensable conditions of our performances. And we stake with the municipal authorities for strengthening the mechanism of cooperation, as well as for further progress in other means of cooperation between the wants and the means of optimizing, considering the different distribution of rights in some classes of education. At other times, as I have shown in the Board of Education of this Chamber, it was designed after examination and analysis of the sub-structures now established for 2014-2018, in the three historical areas. Through this study and analysis, we established the priorities of a practical program with precise activities. As it is there, the quality of the sub-structures for instruction, and of course their maintenance and content are essential factors in the process of their activity. In like manner, the plan is to create new equipment, in order that the progress of each area, the migration movements, or the application of the latest years, may be referred to the demand which is the planning of the schools. With regard to school needs, the programme initially provided for more than 62 expansion, adaptation and establishment of new educational centres to meet the demand for new school places. In the section of reform works, improvement of compliance with the regulations, which, in addition to renewal, improves equipment, not only in its conservation aspect, but also in terms of its compliance with the requirements that the new educational, care and service challenges demand of the school, places particular emphasis on the work that allows for correct accessibility to educational institutions. Approximately 78 events were planned. On the other hand, as a result of a shared and inter-agency coordination work that allows the most efficient management of the investment aimed at the maintenance and improvement of municipal infrastructure, the program has invested in the call called Udal laguntza, for the co-financing of the works carried out in municipal school buildings and the development of the Estaltzen program for the coverage of school courtyards. But, in addition to all this, we must stress that the infrastructure plan was conceived, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, as a practical plan, with concrete actions, and measurable and flexible commitments. In this regard, it is important to note that, in addition to the actions initially planned, various actions have been added to the programme. Specifically, more than 43 additional proceedings. Focusing on the case that you have brought us to this House, the definition of the project and the execution of the work of the new covered clue of CEIP Luis Briñas, the subject of your question, are actions framed in this Plan of Improvement of Educational Infrastructures 2014-2018. The purpose of the project was to provide the educational centre with a covered playground, which would serve the students as a recreation area, to protect the weather conditions, responding to the demand of the centre. As is known, CEIP Luis Briñas is located in the Bilbao district of Santutxu. Therefore, in a totally urban environment, nestled between streets and the municipal haurreskola, which has conditioned us a possible extension of the current school complex. On the other hand, the building, built by the architect Pedro Ispizua in 1933, is subject to special protection by the General Plan of Urban Planning of Bilbao, because it is an exponent of rationalist architecture. Faced with this situation, and after due analysis and technical contrast, from the department, together with the Bilbao City Council, it is proposed to execute the track of games in semi-subterranean form, with two different bodies within the same volume: the area of the track and the core of the communications. The solutions taken in this project have been considered as premises and restrictions marked by the project of pre-adapation: A necessity for the users of the school to be safe from bad weather, which is easy to enter, to get rid of the slopes, and to secure access to all joints, in spite of its bad conditions. To respect the nature of the school group of Louis Briñas, an international rationalist style, and to highlight the value of the plasticness of simpleness and solid geometry, and of the fluidity of space. And, after all, in accordance with the project of execution, the end was added to the establishment, which would not compete in the scale and form to serve the wants of the schools. In order to begin the drafting of the implementation project, it was necessary to make available the annexed land, which was in use by the haurreskola, to carry out a detailed study and, finally, to approve the action in the property commission of the Bilbao City Council. All this has entailed an additional work of which an ordinary work involves. And I would like to highlight the collaboration of the Bilbao City Council in the development of these procedures, which, as I have already indicated, are long, complicated and costly. Focusing on his question, on January 9, 2018, from the construction service, a report was issued showing works pending execution, deficiencies and cures, as is usually done in a work before the formal reception of it. Consequently, this performance, with the architectural solution that has been decided, has allowed the Luis Briñas school, in addition to a new covered play area, to have an additional extension of the upper courtyard. From the early phase of the work, the delegation technicians and the management of the Department have made several visits to the work, almost every week, to continue the project. Besides, there's been a lot of meetings and there'll be a lot of school managers and their education experts who'll always get the better of the installation and the service of answering the needs of the school. From the department we understand that this is an action that undoubtedly improves the facilities of this CEIP and, in the event of any deficiency, obviously and like any other action of these characteristics, we would act technically as appropriate, in the interests of the centre and of our children. As I said at first, the essential commitment to this department is to have the right infrastructure, moderns, and mainly accessible. And on the second round to answer, I will give you the details of the activities that are developing to strengthen the security of this project.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u100	Mrs. Uriarte. I do say this with all due respect, but it seems to me a lack of respect that you leave for the second part, that is, when I can no longer tell you anything, the answer to certain questions that have been very clear, and your first part has been devoted to making a report on the government's infrastructure plan, which may be very good, but which has other instruments to make those reports, when you ask for the appearance at your own request or, simply, by calling the media and exposing it, but not taking advantage of a question, an inquiry, with very specific questions, on a very specific and determined subject, as I say, not to answer and to devote itself to making a report. And you say that the work of Luís Briñas had many difficulties and that is why it took so long in Do it. Hey, the parents were suing. this work for a long time, and I will tell you, what a coincidence that there is an amendment, introduced by a group of the opposition, through motions of a certain group of the opposition, ours, both in the City Hall of Bilbao, as here, and begins to start the work. But if you were into the plan, look, really, as you usually say, for you the fat bitch. We want that, what we wanted is for this school to get a covered yard, so that the children didn't end up deaf playing in the hallways, that is, with which I don't care. You say you've had meetings at the center. I'm going to tell you, meetings like one, that I don't know if you're going to count it as a meeting, with the director, at which the director went down while they were representatives of the Basque Government, they were found there and a meeting was held about that. Because if the director doesn't get down while they're watching the baskets from the Basque government technicians, there's no meeting. If all the meetings are like that... You say there were weekly visits. Were you really visiting? Well, it makes it worse for me. Because if making weekly visits have not been able to solve the serious shortcomings that it has before the end of the work, the worse it makes me, the worse it makes me. Because if the deficiencies have not been seen because they had not gone through the work, then it is worth it. But if after some technicians go to work, I tell you that I, who I am licensed in law, that I am neither an architect, nor an engineer, nor anything, I see perfectly the defects in construction, listen, really... A mesh, which has been put on because the parents have told you. A mesh, which I tell you that little security, which is seen in plain sight, on the slopes that go down and reach quite pending. Some luminaries, that to change them I don't know who they'll have to call, some astronaut, because they've put them in such a way to see how they get there to change them. An upper courtyard that had a wall, and the same was climbed by a child and fell to the slope, that is, already from the slope, the height that there was, there could be a misfortune, they have put the same mesh. And so on. And I don't tell you other things, other shortcomings that were seen there, that were really shocking, and that you tell me that the technicians of the Basque Government were going weekly. Well, they had to go, but look and see, I don't know how far they looked and looked. And he hasn't answered me, I don't know if he's gonna answer me later. Actually, it was a yard first. But it is that the courtyard, if it had been above, that could not be covered by the specificities of the building itself, that I have told you. Well, it couldn't be covered. If the yard had been covered up, on the surface... Going to the bathroom is very easy and very fast, but it has become half buried by the characteristics of the building. Do you know what children have to go through? It's just that I'm inviting you to go, I'm inviting you to go. It's just that, really, if a child has an emergency, and we already know that the children leave everything for the last hour, that they don't get to the bathroom, that they don't, apart from getting lost, I tell you, class or recreation. And you're now selling that you make a covered polysport track. And they make a polysport track without locker rooms? So where's the clue? The sports track will have to wear locker rooms. They said they're gonna do it after the play. When are they going to do it? It's pretty easy. How long will you bid on the project? I do know who has done the work but, it is normal, does it seem normal to receive the work, staying with the bail, yes, to receive the work and that the deficiencies instead of having to pay them who has done the work, to claim them to the one who has done the work, because it has done wrong, instead, now have to pay more the Basque Government to hire another work? We don't think it's normal...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u101	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Your time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u102	We're gonna be fine. We're gonna be fine. As I have said before, the object of this project is that schools are covered in the playground. It was. To keep the students safe from bad weather to be a playground. Considering the property in the school, which is peculiar to the HAPO of the town of Bilbo, Pedro Ispizu, being the architect's work, the project should be developed at zero in the courtyard, so as not to prevent the sight of the building. On the 6th of August, 2015, the technical services at the Board of Education witnessed the project. Project that meets all the technical requirements of the building technical code in all its sections, including those of safety and accessibility of the enclosure. At no point in the drafting phase of the project was the need for locker rooms and toilets, since it was not a polysports venue, but a covered playground that, once adjusted to the plot, had an area of 650 square meters. On 14 December 2015, the Municipality of Bilbao granted the works license. In the administrative processing of this license, at no time did Bilbao City Council impose any corrective action on the project. The project was hired on the 26th of August 2016. Thus the works began on November 21st, 2016. That's the date to formalize the checkpoints of the probe. Whilst the work began, the schools were asked to be included in the dressing-rooms and toilets. And, as we have already observed, the project did not foresee it at first, and the operators who knew it. The inclusion of these locker rooms and toilets would have entailed the execution of a new project, after termination of the contract in force and the stoppage of the works of execution, since it was impossible to include the services requested in the current project, as was explained by the architect director of the works, Gonzalo Ispizua, to the school council of the center. On 21 February 2018, the works are received in accordance with the approved project. On 16 January 2018, the City Council and the school council of the centre requested additional security measures to protect the existing ramp by means of a safety net, to provide a safety fence to the outdoor area of the courtyard, to change the metallic facade panels with cutting wires for another type of panel and to protect the outdoor area of games by means of a four-metre high network to prevent the fall of balloons to the surrounding road. Once the work has been received, the department is implementing the additional security measures requested. Protection of the ramps has been carried out through a nylon mesh network, a metallic closure has been carried out in the possible area of access from the outside of the courtyard. The metal sheets of deployment will be changed This is a normal process. What is not normal is that technical aspects of a work give rise to a loudspeaker that defiles an improvement performance in a public center and it is a shame to use this forum for them. With regard to the parliamentary mandate you indicate, as I have already explained, this department is committed to studying the possibility of including locker rooms and bathrooms in the new covered courtyard once the work has been completed. We are trying to find a technical solution that can provide these services to the new infrastructure, but, as we have noted, there are conditions, such as the cultural nature of the good or the architectural conditions, that make it difficult to find an easy solution. The centre has sent us a proposal whose feasibility is being analysed technically. As I have told you, we will continue to meet several meetings with the Director of the School and its educationists, always in order to improve the facilities and to answer the wants of the schools, considering that it is undoubtedly a modern and suitable infrastructure, and above all a guarantee that the installations are safe and accessible to guarantee the quality of the school.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Interra, Juana de Bengoechea Esté Espulative Groups of Investigation by the head of the Board of Education, the mutilation of women's genitals." Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u104	Madam Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We have here today an issue that we consider to be very sensitive and very high priority. At the beginning of the year, Medicus Mundi said that throughout Spain there were some 18,400 girls and adolescents at risk of female genital mutilation. The Spanish Red Cross reminded us that female genital mutilation violates two of the sustainable development goals that must be met by 2030. Most of the minors who are subjected to female genital mutilation come from Nigeria, Senegal, Mali and the Gambia, where up to 76% of girls are subject to this practice. We always have the doubt of how many of those 18,400 girls and adolescents are in the Basque Country. In the latest news we have, especially from the Health Council, we are told about about a thousand girls. We allow ourselves to think that they are more, for one reason, because, according to the Ministry of Health, fundamentally, and the Ministry of Equality, between 2008 and 2012 girls had grown up in risk of mutilation by 198,50 %. That is to say, from 400 it had risen to 818, almost twice as much. And that was between 2008 and 2012. What will have happened between 2012 and 2018. They're estimated at about a thousand. If we continue the progression knowing that family reunions have increased, and that children and adolescents have already been born here, we believe that the figure will be well above 1,000, but even if it is only 1,000, not one should be allowed. We have seen how the health department of the Basque Government has started. And it has been launched following recommendations that come from the interdisciplinary group for the prevention and study of harmful traditional practices of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, which did an excellent job. And through surveys – here it tells us that they are in northern Barcelona, in the Maresme and in some regions of Girona – they saw that 90.8% of the respondents, who were people from these areas, claimed that female mutilation was practised in their country. And the percentage also increased to 98.6% when we are talking about people from the Gambia. And he also told us one thing that is frankly hopeful, and that is that more than half of the men and slightly less of the women were willing to abandon that traditional practice. What happens is that they were pushed to it by the pressure of their cultures of origin when they returned. And this interdisciplinary group of the Autonomous University of Barcelona developed methods that, above all, came from an anthropologist, Kaplan, who at the beginning of the 2000s had issued them, which consisted of treating these people who were willing to abandon female genital mutilation and reach agreements and covenants with them – which is what our Health Department is doing at the moment – so that they could take them to the countries of origin, and when they suffered this pressure for girls to be mutilated, they could submit documents explaining, above all, as Kaplan explains, with many stamps and tapes and many ornaments, because of course most of the people in the Gambia will not understand the Castilian, but explaining to them that it was illegal in Spain and that, therefore, they could not carry it out. And that has been an escape route because, as I say, people are usually quite reasonable and almost half of the people from these ethnic groups are willing, especially men, to abandon it. What they needed was protection from the social pressure they were suffering in their countries of origin. And we see how the Department of Health has put this into place, and in the news we read that, I literally read, it is from Emakunde: "The Department of Education within the framework of the master plan for the co-education and prevention of gender-based violence in the education system, has as one of its three strategic objectives to put in place mechanisms for the prevention, early detection and effective response of gender-based violence, involving the whole educational community in a special way." And it is true that in a modification that there was – it seems to me that it is 2003 – female genital mutilation was introduced into the Penal Code – it seems to me that it is 149.2 but it will have to look at the roles; if in that I am wrong, please forgive me – putting female genital mutilation as a form of violence against women. So why are we here today? And above all, why do we ask the councilwoman? We want to challenge him without any aggressiveness, and without any reproach, but if we want to ask him something, we want to propose something to him. We believe that it is the Department of Education that should lead this fight against female genital mutilation. And why do we consider it that way? Because the potential victims, the space where they are found, the space in which they are known in the day to day is in the educational centers. The Department of Health can do an excellent job, but first of all, from a much less preventive point of view, because it may be that these girls do not pass through a health centre. They're healthy girls, parents don't wear them, and then the health centers and the Department of Health don't know. And on the way back from the countries, or it's also beginning to practice among us, when it's practiced, they do detect it, right, but it's "holy pastu". And here, what we're trying to do is not fix a mutilation, what we're trying to do is prevent it. And who knows the potential victims better than anyone? Where do you know your parents better than anyone? Where can one try to raise awareness? Where can such a signature of documents be offered that give them support in the face of the pressure they are going to suffer in their countries of origin to carry out this barbaric practice? Well, the best place is in the schools. And I'm sorry, because the counselor will tell me: Is this going to fall on me, too? For I am afraid that yes, I am afraid that yes, but, moreover, we propose it as an interdepartmental effort because, of course, the greatest preventive work, where more can be done is in educational institutions. But there will also be other departments that have to intervene. Of course the Health one, which seems to be the one that has advanced the most elaborate protocols. But, of course, the Department of Health is likely to find out as a result of the verification of a mutilation already carried out. The Department of Justice will have to intervene. Of course the Lehendakaritza has to intervene, through Emakunde with equality policies. And probably the same judges will need updates on a phenomenon that is not new, but relatively new. So, this has to be an interdepartmental effort, but we bring it as an inquiry to the Education Advisor for preventive work, and where we can best do it for those thousand girls – who we think are much more because of the percentage growth rates – where we will best be able to do that preventive work, as I said, it is in educational institutions. And that's what we wanted to ask the counselor today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u106	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs. Bengochea, the mutilation of women's genitals is an evil practice, and is regarded as a serious violation of the human rights of women and girls in the nation. It is an expression of violence against women, and its origin is in the character of the genus and difference. The Word of the Word in Istanbul, the Word of the European Council, contrary to the violence of woman and domestic violence, was signed on the 11th of May 2011, and settled in the Spanish State on the first day of August 2014. The countries that signed it were engaged to harass the mutilation among the nations without being disturbed by the possible restrictions of universal justice. 38. In the article concerning the mutilations of women's genitals, the countries are demanded as follows: to take necessary measures, whether of legislation, or of other things, to make women act as crimes, to be always voluntary in any way, and to oblige a woman and a girl to undergo the mutilation of woman's genius, or to supply it by means of the means of this end. The mutilation of female genius has also been received in 2030 Age, as a matter of responsibility, as a plan of action for the people, the planet, the prosperity, and peace of the United Nations, and as a responsibility for universal nature and all the countries of the world. The 2030 Agenda represents a substantial advance from a gender perspective, as it is, on the one hand, a specific goal – objective five – to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. And, on the other hand, gender equality and the empowerment of women are recognized as fundamental elements for achieving the other proposed goals and targets. Among the goals – objective five mentioned – are included, in its third section, to eliminate all harmful practices such as child, early and forced marriage and female genital mutilation. The commitment of states to this goal goes beyond formality, as it involves the allocation of resources for its implementation. In Euskadi, from the government we are not alien to this context and this concern and, therefore, we are working intensively on these policies. Act No. 4/2005 of 18 February 2005 on the Equality of Women and Men defines violence against women as any violent act on the grounds of sex which results or may result in physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering of women, including threats of such acts, arbitrary coercion or deprivation of liberty occurring in public or private life. 6. Of the Equality of Women and Men in this Law. The plan was to determine what policy and what principal furrows ought to orientate in the sphere of equality in the duties of the ancient laws. The third axis of this work, on the abolition of violence against women, has already expressly received that it must be opposed to the oppositions of the women who are present about us. For example, against the sale of women's genitals and sexual exploitation. In addition, this plan receives other strategic and operational purposes as regards the sensibility and prevention of woman's violence, as well as the detection of the victims and the care of that violence. In like manner, VII. Through the structure of the plan, its aim is to match the commitment of the 2030th Age and the equality of the European Union to the equality of men, and to the commitment to the programme of our government to this legislation. Thus, to detect the mutilation of the geniuses of women, and to adopt the peculiar sphere of prevention, is still followed by the already cultivated and developed actions. Unfortunately, the mutilation of women's genitals is not something that does not concern our community, because, owing to the tendency of migration, their habits of worship with the immigrants, as well as those which are good for the whole of mankind, are likewise injurious customs to the people. According to the diagnosis of female genital mutilation carried out by Emakunde in 2014, around 11,000 people live in the Basque Autonomous Community from countries where female genital mutilation is practised, and the group of girls aged 0 to 14 from these countries is about 1,000 girls. Protecting these girls from being maimed, without alarm and without neglect, is an obligation of the Basque public authorities. Without alarm, because it is clear that most of them are not at real risk of being maimed, because, in addition to the country of origin, ethnic and other risk indicators, such as the educational level of the father and mother and, above all, their views on female genital mutilation, must be considered in each specific case. And without neglect, because it is known the geographical origin that informs us about the statistical risk, it is necessary to be vigilant to make the assessment of the concrete and real risk for each girl or adolescent, in order to be able to take the appropriate measures in each case. I would like to point out again that female genital mutilation is a harmful practice against women and girls, but it is not the only one. It needs to be addressed taking into account all other traditional cultural practices based on gender inequality: early and forced child marriage, forced feeding of women, taboos or practices that prevent women from controlling their own fertility, nutritional taboos and traditional practices related to childbirth, preference over the male child with all its implications that have this preference in the status of the girl, infanticide of girls, early pregnancies or dowry. It is necessary that we should understand all the evils which are prejudicial to women and girls together, and which are founded on the fundamental principle of the genus-decoration and sexual neglect. In this valley, it has suggested that for the last ten years three evils which have been increasing throughout the world have been brought together. To prefer the son of a man, and to choose before he was born, to the mutilation of women's genitals, and to the premature and forced marriage of children. Besides, we wish to set up a fundamental key to the mutilation of women's genitals in the Euscal Autonomia in Erria, not to stigmatize the peoples, communities, and families. For they are consistent in working with resolution, in order that the defence of human rights, and in order to destroy the injurious practices which prejudice the women and girls, and on the other hand, to promote the knowledge and sensibility necessary to comprehend each custom in its exact context, which is the end of those who suffer the young genius of women, and not again to awaken them. The subject must be brought into the community, and the rights of women are to be observed in the defence of autonomy and determination. The mutilation of woman's genitals is not only a violation of the right to health and to complete the body, but also a hindrance to the control of one's sexuality, and the rights of sex and reproduction in a free manner. In line with what I have said throughout my speech and in line with the recommendations of the experts, the main line of intervention must focus above all on prevention, based on an interdisciplinary, culturally respectful work in which the health, education and social fields work in a coordinated way, together with the groups of immigrants and entities working with them. Consequently, the Departments of Education and Health of the Basque Government, together with Emakunde, have been working collaboratively since the past legislature to prevent such practices in girls living in our community. The result of this work, at the beginning of 2016, in a coordinated way, in addition to the guide of action in the health field for the prevention and detection of female genital mutilation, a highly recognized guide, launched by the Department of Health in collaboration with Emakunde, is in force and is implemented the protocol of prevention of female genital mutilation in the educational field, of which I will give you more details in my second intervention. From the Department of Education, too, and within the framework of the master plan for the co-education of the prevention of gender-based violence in the education system, as you have mentioned, it is one of your three strategic objectives to put in place mechanisms for the prevention, early detection and effective response of gender-based violence, involving the entire educational community in a very special way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u108	Madam Counselor. He has devoted the first part of his exhibition to telling us what I at least already knew, because believe me that I have studied this subject well, and it seems to me good, because there may be other people who do not know it, and I accept it, but come on, I assure you that, practically, what you have said, more broadly, is practically what I have quoted. And then you finally told me about this plan that there is, that you don't know what I'm glad about. But I'll tell you one thing. As you know, we have visited quite a few centres and why those responsible for these centres, at least the teachers, have not told us about it, they have told us about the marginalization suffered by these minors. These minors, the minors who are in charge of them, are often not targeted at extracurricular students, are not targeted at activities beyond merely educational ones. Then they have to run home. They participate much less than their brothers or their male companions in what is the second circle of education. They've told us all about it, not about it in particular. I mean, it sounds really good to me, but I think it would have to be something much more known. I hope you'll give us explanations now, because the professionals don't know him. There will be some who know him, I do not say no, but it is true that we cannot victimize, it is true that we cannot stigmatize, but it is also true that excessive secrecy can cause them not to have real repercussions, because they do not know him. As there are more people who know the work of the Department of Health – I have been able to see – who, as I say, intervenes a posteriori. Look, I'm going to give you data that you sure have, because most of what you've presented to us here root – I'm sure there will be some news of your own – in that interdisciplinary group for the prevention and study of harmful traditional practices, which goes far beyond female genital mutilation. But I'll give you some. From here I have taken out that 53.5% that I would be willing to sign that document, we are already taking half of the girls at risk. And why are they willing to mutilate the girls? Let's see. They bring different reasons, but they say, 90.3 responded that because tradition says so. That is a good field to work, because, as I say to you, despite that, half are willing to abandon it; 85.9% because they are customs of each community; 70.8% out of respect for authority; these are also very likely to sign that document that protects them; and then 64.3% because it is a religious mandate; and 26.5%, only in the fourth, because it is an obligation for Muslims. That's why I'm telling you that I've tried to study the subject well, I've read this. You tell me there's that plan. Congratulations. But I ask you, first, to make yourself known, because I assure you that the professionals, many of them, do not know you. When you talk to them and you say, "Hey, you have this problem," and they say, "I guess so," but what we can truly visualize is the undervaluation of women. And please lead the matter, because you have under your protection that affected community. And when you talk to me about victimization, what we want is for there to be no victims, because what we want is for the Department of Education to lead prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u110	Bengoechea andrea. As I have said before, the field of work which develops is mainly affected by prevention, founded on discipline, where the health, education, and social districts are to work in co-ordination with the collective organizations of the immigrants and the institutions which work with them. In this Illus, these are the ones in each field. The basic principles for professional activities, which ought to be conducted to huddle, education, and society: Threefold views, human rights, the defence of the genus and children, the emphasis of prevention, the supreme interest of the minor girl, the prevention of secondary victims, discipline, co-ordination, and network work, preparation, sensitisation, and knowledge, to avoid working with families, to avoid stigmatizing, to avoid the work of the community and the culture, and the possibility of women, as the strategy and purpose of prevention. As I mentioned in my first intervention, since the beginning of 2016, the protocol for the prevention of female genital mutilation in the field of education has been in force and implemented. This protocol of action in schools includes three cases of detection and prevention. The first, routine procedure in enrollment and throughout the year. After enrolment, special attention will be paid to girls from countries with high prevalence of female genital mutilation practices in the reception processes established by the centres. To this end, the centres, always under the previous principles, in a general framework of protection and prevention, will act as follows. It shall be ensured that there is a person in the centre who has accurate information and training on this practice; if this is not the case, the address of the centre shall contact the zonal berritzegune to obtain the relevant information. The tutor, in regular contacts with the student and the family, will collect the significant information that best helps her social and personal inclusion. If the family belongs to a practicing ethnic group or other risk factors are observed, the family will be referred to health services. The family will also be informed that the centre will also be in contact with these services. In the three cases described, the guardian and the board will give information to the families, the councils, and the privates of the country, to the service of women. The second case. Before the girls travel, the vaccination will be considered an excuse for the health system. Gets up some meaningful information between teachers and families If, then, he will go to an original town of vacations, families, or girls, he tells them that she is going to have a welcome party, and he will tell the schoolmaster about it, and at the same time he will give information to the party of pedirates to co-operate with him. In fact, if a travel forecast is detected, the educational centre will perform the following actions. The centre's management will inform the family that they should go to the health centre, to pediatrics, for guidance on vaccinations and other health care. In turn, the health centre will be informed about the future journey and will be informed of the family, this circumstance. Finally, the third case, on the return of a trip from the country of origin. If changes in the attitude and behaviour of the girl child are perceived, in case any circumstance is suspected of a risk situation, the management of the centre will contact the paediatric team of the relevant health centre to inform the child of the situation of the child, which will inform the family. The management of the centre shall notify the municipal social services of the fact so that they can assess the situation, as well as that coordinated monitoring can be carried out with other institutions and services. The operationalization of this protocol is part of the training offer of berritzeguns In conclusion, I would like to remark that the educational education of women is a watering of human rights, and that the Board of Education has a commitment to a disciplined employment, co-ordinately to health and social life, to prevent generic violence, to detect and to give an answer in time, to produce certain contrivances of educational tenement in a peculiar manner.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect Group, made to the head of the Board of Education, about the 11\11\02\01\0308 Instruction of the case of a file-acting agreement." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u112	Good morning. Mrs. Greart, do you begin our proposal on March 21 by fulfilling our inclusive and impartial educational system? From the beginning of next year's lesson, shall we see the proportions of the schools? We're talking about proposals to be faced with the segregation today. We know the segregation is not a Gastian exclusive. In fact, Mrs. Uriart, today the platform towards the Public Gasteize School will be mobilized. We have expressed our affection and protection. If you want, we'll go hand in hand together. Yeah? Do you feel like it? We know that the issue of the scythe is not only a Gasthex, but also that it belongs to the school. But he's stabilizing himself at school, so the school has a corresponding balance function and he can't handle the equalizer. So, Chief of Education, you have a responsibility, you have to give answers, and, above all, you have to take measures, the effective measures we've never seen before. Focus always reverts to migration, but the problem is not migration. The problem is social, the problem is poverty. And we see the Board of Education wandering, without foresight, without preparation, in response to future hinges, although many of our agents have been placed in the hands of the Board of Education, such proposals as are agreed upon, as the table of Gastei. What we want to know today is exactly what you've done to fulfill what you've accepted since March 21. One, has the Education Department contacted the Gaste table and other operators to take the proper measures and put them in force? Have you defined new criteria for balancing the differences between the two networks and the nets? Have you started working with the corporations to destroy the fraud of the census? Three, which have a great variety of schools since September, will have more human resources? Are students in need of social ethyology going to have resources? Do you think the number of students in the class will fit? Four, stronger school sports, and all the students are doing to get the school sports entrance? And because it was five points five that we agreed here to increase the formation and participation of families, to strengthen local schools, to strengthen local schools, like a dynamic process beyond the school of education, what measures have you taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u114	Mahaiburu's walking. Ms. Ubera, in answer to your question, the wager that this government makes for the attainment of an inclusive and equalizer is clear. The essential element of education is to promote the equality of choice, and to build a democratic life, a solid and conscientious life; and we are working in this, from a starting-point, from a consent, and building agreements. From an integral point of view of education, we also believe that there is need for eupscal educational system to go forward and that it is to be achieved by justice, socializing, education of values... Our work is constant to the construction of an inclusive and equalizing system of education, and to make a cohesion of a people, both by the beauty of the department, and by the proposals made by so many operators, And even by conversation and arrangement, you get it at the professor's sactorial table. as it has been with the arrangement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u116	Mrs. Spriart, suspense. suspense! You didn't answer me. The question was very just and very clear: What have you done to fill out the proposition made by March 21 and what will you do? And you didn't answer me. And then you tell me it's a clean bet. Well, unfortunately, Mrs. Uriart, we haven't seen that bet. We don't see that bet, unfortunately. And I'm telling you, at the beginning of the year, there'll be plenty of plans, words, documents. At first school, you need school measures. The measurements must be established. Then, I hope this is the second round, this second shift you're so fond of having answers, listening to answers. I hope so tonight, because we're already late. We're so late! And you have to make a decision there. Follow the segregation as you are, or really stand for cohesion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u118	Bi hilabete passes say. Reality. Ms. Ubera, as I have said, let's build alliances, build agreements, and do not mix them, do not spoil them. He's talking about the deal. He's talking about reciprocity. The last and most important thing we've ever had, as I said before, the agreement obtained at the sactorial table about two weeks ago, the arrangement of a social education between us all. In the seventh place, the art of the master-maist in Child Education, with the double tutelage in the three-year-old rooms. And at eight o'clock, where the modern teachers strengthen themselves according to the index of the needs of schools. We've made a bet for strengthening professors, according to the need for school education indexes. This is the point which, in several respects, directly affect the propositions of another law. It's obvious that in some schools and rooms there are complex situations. That's why the Board of Education has proposed and agreed to apply an educational index for the needs of education in the schools. The eight factors in which this index is constructed have been considered: the school compositions, the social and cultured indexes, the origin of students and parents, the number of repetitions, the number of students of specific educational service, the number of scholars in the same school, the number of sinners, the stability of teachers in schools. This index applies to identifying schools and classes according to education requires, and apply additional aids to this criterion, all teachers under equal conditions, that they may perform their function as best they can. But, in addition to the agreement signed, we have many more measures. For example, specific measures such as those contained in the II Immigrant Student Care Plan, which endorse some of the proposals made by the various actors; the new admission decree launched at the beginning of the year; the opening of the territorial school offices; the comprehensive control over registration certificates; and collaboration in the development of municipal programmes of socio-educational and community intervention with minors. New variables to be taken into account in the allocation of language reinforcement teachers approved in the technical commission on regulations, information and planning; measures within the framework of the monographic plenary of the Basque Pact for Family and Children already mentioned in the previous plenary of control. All of them with the same main objective, achieve greater balance, social cohesion, interculturality and coexistence in our educational institutions. Two months after the agreement of this House to which you refer, and I believe that, being aware of the various initiatives under way and agreements reached, I wonder what is really the subject of your question today. There's no point in confusing it. We must not be at the front, we must be at the side. Auzolan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula team had made to the head of the Medical Department on the 12th of May, 2018. Mr. Barrio is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u120	Thank you, President, good morning. The other day something very serious happened, because it is very serious to sabotage, burn, deliberately burn 35 ambulances. Very serious. It is very serious from the point of view of public order, that we will then deal with the matter, and with security, but also with the health organization and labor relations. The vandal act of sabotage destroyed on 12 May 35 ambulances of the Ambuibérica company that has undertaken health transport work in concert with the Department of Health of the Basque Government. Days before, another very serious thing too, 90 ambulances were attacked as well and their tires were destroyed. Also these companies, of another company, of the company Ambulanças Vizcaya. We've seen other issues, other aggressive, threatening expressions, painted in companies... The contracting company, Ambuibérica in this case, has been a company that has normally received an order and a mandate from the Government in relation to health transport, meeting strict requirements. And, of course, we have seen the characteristics in the case of sabotage, the fact that it is part of something that happens in a kind of labor conflict. Although the labour dispute relates to 100 % of the workforce being subordinated to the new company, working conditions will be changed in relation to negotiation and workers. We want to know, of course, how it appreciates the allocation to the Basque health transport service the sabotage destruction of 35 ambulances that took place on 12 May in Arrigorriaga. And we want to see a little and know a little bit the keys to this health work conflict, to know how it is analyzed, of course, by the Department of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u121	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u122	Mrs. President, Congressmen, good noon. Barrio jauna, I think that from the Department of Health we have been very clear at all times on the issue you are interested in. Our assessment and that of the Basque Government is of absolute condemnation and repudiation of a vandalistic and unqualified act. As you said, it happened last Saturday, the 12th, in the industrial estate of Arrigorriaga. As we all know, on the 12th of May, there was a fire that destroyed 35 ambulances. These ambulances were about to start serving the next day. As everyone knows on that date there was a sabotage in which 35 ambulances were burned from the company that was to start providing the scheduled transportation service of Bizkaia patients the next day. This arson is a reprehensible and inconceivable act, which attacks material means, in this case ambulances, with the aim of hindering and preventing the provision of a basic public service for people, health transport. What happened is unacceptable. It's terrible. Today and here we don't know who and why the ambulance burned them. The edge is investigating what's happened. We're waiting to see if it lights up soon. and those who set up a fire in the presence of justice. This is, without a doubt, a regrettable fact, for us inexplicable, whose causes and authors today are unknown. As is known, the Ertzaintza has already opened an investigation and we hope that the facts will be clarified and those responsible will be able to answer for the facts that have taken place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u124	Gracias, president. Yes, then we will ask Mrs Beltrán de Heredia about the police investigation into this very serious event, but we would like to give a little thought to what Mr. Counsellor might have to do about the conflict, because what feelings does her department have about the activity of a conflict like this? Can there be new expressions? Because we have seen that there have been several violent or threatening expressions, the warnings that have been placed. Has the company expressed its fear or reservation of being able to perform the service normally? That's what we want to know, because we're very interested. We know that it is a service that affects, from what we have been able to read, 2,000 daily average services that carry out these concerted ambulances. We've seen some statement from some of those affected days that he suffered. Let's see, that's why we want to know: Is the service at risk? Because it is a very important, very important service that affects Bizkaia. Of course, we also wanted to express our solidarity with the company and with the workers. That is to say, all this puts at risk the stability of the labour market, the companies, the decision of the companies to contribute to the collaboration with the health. And, in that sense, we did want to know whether this violent challenge should be neutralized. Then they'll tell us about it, but we would also like to know how the matter was settled. Has cooperation been sought from other autonomous communities? Has the company itself been able to assume the damage? That is to say, know a little, because if there are still such questions, we hope that they will not – then they will tell us if there are measures to do so – because we want to neutralize them and we want to blame those who have to act in that sense that they can never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u125	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u126	Mr Barrio, I am absolutely sure that you agree with me that violence has no justification either in the work context or in any other. The only thing I can tell you is that this, unfortunately, coincided over time with the relay between health transport companies, at the conclusion of a contract and the initiation of another contract, contract and change that takes place through the corresponding public tender. Therefore, it is difficult for us to frame these sabotages as a response to a labour dispute. The new contract doesn't mean a conflict. All personnel, 100%, have been subsidized by the new company. The new contract does not change the conditions of 350 workers. As you have pointed out, the relief between these companies subordinated 100% of the staff; all people who were working In the previous company they are working today on the new one. Nor has it led to any change in their working conditions, because today it maintains the same working conditions as they had last month. Nor has this led to any change or break in the negotiation of the collective agreement, in which, under the mandate of this Parliament, we are committed to achieving an autonomous agreement and the negotiation of it is still under way. The new contracting company is a company with extensive experience in the sector, which already worked in Euskadi in urgent health transport and which, of course, meets all the requirements that the Basque Government and the Department of Health require of any company that opts for the provision of a public service. I am aware that these kinds of acts represent a relevant fact for all the parties concerned. That is why I too want to show my solidarity and support to all the workers in the health transport sector and to the company concerned. Obviously, with 35 fewer ambulances, the first days we have had service impairments that, fortunately, have been solved and today the service is completely normalized.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Your time is up. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Ubeka and the members of the EH Collect are made to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the plans of the Medical Department in 2011." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u128	Mr. Darpón, I'm sure you'll answer for the first round. What will you do in order to solve the case of calling-up in 2011? What are you going to do? I know it's a matter you inherited, because the chief physician from the front section, Mr. Bengo, didn't solve it, but you've not been able to fix it until now, and, in fact, to hear what you've seen and heard about this week, I don't know if you have any will. Because you, yourself, in 2014, by order 558/2014, were suspended by an economic crisis in suspense. The arguments that this evaluation contains are terrible. The crisis, the economic situation, the state of the Euscal economy, the law of 2012, 2013, 2014 budgets, the law of the antient Institution Act. So, clearly, you introduced scissors in 2014, and applied a new reduction. But, Mr. Darpón, now the economy has improved, right? That's what Mr. Urkullu says. And if the economy has improved, I say, it is profitable for you to turn this matter on suspension. So, what happened? Well, the snowballs are getting bigger and bigger, so fix up. It's a matter you don't have. But later, we have a resolution 36/2018, another escape, in which workers are made to confess the profession, but not payment, which is a law of budgets. This was to apply a partial sentence of the Gasterial Court. Another sentence has now come to us, in which it is manifest that the workers who have contributed to these callings must be paid. And that's what we're talking about, Mr. Darpón, who applied to the 7,000 employees for their reduction. It's not a gift to fix the call in 2011. Now, because of your neglect, not to solve the problem, if you think it's too much money, it's a different problem, but history is beginning to rot. And this has nothing to do with the other members of the calling company, it has nothing to do with the model of business, not with the negotiation, even though you're trying to confuse public opinion with the expressions you're doing lately. That's what we think. Maybe we're lawyered. We don't share the type of business, I've told you many times. In the previous legislation, too, we brought proposals, and we always said we had to take a turn. But that doesn't remove the lawsuits, it doesn't mean there's no need to solve problems, and there's no doubt that the call in 2011 has to be repaired. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u130	President andrea, legebiltzarkideok, Ubera andrea. In this problem, as in others that you have raised to me over the past parliamentary term, we will sometimes do what we used to do, solve it. It should be explained that the professional development and resolution of the calls made by Osakidetza in 2011 have been the subject of collective negotiation at the sectoral table in multiple meetings, since 2014, without an agreement to date. Given the lack of agreement on this, it is Osakidetza who has judicialized the case and so far there has not been a single judicial decision ending the trial. There was a judgment last year, in the First Instance, which you seem to have forgotten, in favour of Osakidetza, where the right of staff to the recognition of levels of professional development was recognized, an issue that we have already sent to the Official Gazette of the Basque Country and will soon be published, but not to the remuneration perception. And there has been a second sentence, which seems to you to like most, as a result of an appeal that also recognizes the retributive perception, but that can be appealed in cassation. The subject is not baladi. We are facing an economic amount of around EUR 100 million, which does not affect the entire staff of Osakidetza, but less than a third of it. The judicial process has not been completed. Finally, but not least, we believe that such a decision must be negotiated at the sectoral table. And for us there is the key, Mrs. Ubera, the sectoral table. It's not a question of any kind, it's a large sum of money, more than 100 million dollars, it doesn't affect the whole plan of the Osae, the judicial road isn't over yet, and we have to negotiate in the literary table of health. Don't hesitate, Mrs. Ubera, the Department of Health will resolve the calls for professional development within the law. Nor does he doubt that the Basque Government always complies with the court rulings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u131	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u132	Always, always not. We have the 35-hour theme. First of all, you haven't executed the sentence for 35 hours of work, so there's no problem getting back any further restrictions you've applied, and that's what we're talking about here. We're talking about confessions and payments, and this has nothing to do with the negotiation table, Mr. Darpón, it has nothing to do with it. And while we're talking about that, you've made some deals at the negotiation table. Can you tell me what's wrong with what? What's wrong with this? So I'm making you a proposal, removing the resolution of 2014 and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u133	Your time is up. Your time is up. You're done. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u134	He was wearing the walker. Azaldu disudan moduan, garapen profesionali dagokionez, honorez gero neuroriak hartzen ari da Osakidetza. You can give me the proposal in hand, I'm sure I'll study them. I will remind you that professional development, which you said you did not like, you said in the first turn that you did not like how it was conceived, is the result of collective bargaining and so it was approved, as it is at the sectoral table. Even so, as I said, we will bring back to the sectoral table the alternatives that can give effect to that judgment or those that result from whether we finally put the appeal and, in addition, we will also bring the possibility of a new call for professional development that allows access to all professionals of the public body, because although recently, by appeal, the ELA union has tried to flag the resolution of the calls for professional development, in 2011 it was not so interested, since the appeals derive from a pact signed at the sectoral table that this union force refused to sign. We believe that both the appeal or the formulae that can be made for the enforcement of the judgment, and the possibility of a new call for professional development, must be addressed within the scope of collective bargaining. Thus, we show our willingness to agree and agree to resolve the professional career, but we will do so in the legitimated forum for it, which is no other than the sectoral health table. As for professional careers, we have all the will to understand each other and get an agreement as soon as possible, but let's do it in the proper proper proper fort in the sanctorial health table. Sometimes when I listen to him, I get the feeling that instead of being a doctor, I'm a modist, but no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u135	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja, members of the Popula team for the Security Chief, on the 12th of May, 2018." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u136	Yes, thank you again, President. Madam Councillor, Madam Councillors, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We hilamos with the previous question, we talk about the gravity of some facts, with various dimensions. Of course, there are health and work. Something we've talked to the councilman before, and this is security and law and order, no. There seems to be no or no work explanation, but there must be some explanation for how, what has happened, what is the origin of this sabotage, of course, the consequences and what research is being carried out. Because we're talking about labor issues, but we're also talking about criminal issues, because that's what we've seen. Sabotage, intimidation... It's possible that even terrorism with radical trade union factions... I don't know, anything. I say it again, because these sabotages start there and they are also in phase, because there have been threats, there have been painted, there have been sabotages in fact, and then more serious sabotages. Also with ecological crime, because tires, cars, gasoline, chemicals, oxygen are burned... They've jumped through the air. In that sense, there is the question, it is very serious. But we do want to know, of course, in that regard, how it is addressing, on what criteria, the Basque Government's Department of Security the investigation of the said acts of sabotage, what information it can give us, and the analysis of what has happened. I mean, there are people, there are workers, there are patients, there are people affected, there are a company or two companies to which some attacks are directed, and that is serious and they certainly feel threatened. How do you appreciate it, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u137	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u138	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr. Barrio, on the night of May 12th I can tell you very little about the fact of the 35 ambibérica burning in the parking lot of the company. It's true, you said it, it's a fact, it's a fire, you know the extent of the damage caused. –35 calcined ambulances – and, above all, about police performance, what I have to tell you, above all, is that the investigation is open, that continues to move forward, that all hypotheses have been raised. Of course, we do not have such a catastrophic panorama as you have drawn us here. As I say, different hypotheses have been raised to narrow down, to discard some and intensify the line of research on other issues. All the evidence collected at the scene of the events has been analyzed, those that collected the eye inspection services, and we are waiting for the results of the laboratory analysis. Some of this evidence has also been collected through both the helicopter and the drone images to obtain these cenital images. These images are being analyzed and also those that have captured other cameras from the industrial polygon. All the testimonies collected are also analyzed, laboratory analyses are carried out, as I mentioned earlier, on the evidence that has been collected in this scenario, and other previous criminal facts that have affected similar services in Euskadi, i.e. ambulance services in Euskadi are also being analyzed. To the same end, in order to have similar references to be compared, the National Police has been requested to report similar incidents and, in particular, the fire that affected the same company, Ambuiberica, in Ciudad Real in January 2013. This type of investigation, like any other criminological investigation, requires logically of a lot of prudence, of a lot of discretion, requires to be exquisite in the observation of the technical and legal guarantees, so any speculation outside the investigation itself will not lead us to anything. We run, however, the risk of generating shadows, of generating too much uncertainty. That is why you understand that you are calling for prudence, rigour and, above all, trust in the investigative services of the criminal investigation division and the judicial police of Ertzaintza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u139	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u140	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the information. We knew that there had also been attacks on ambulance companies in other parts of Spain in connection with certain conflicts. And, of course, for us prudence is going to be there, so we want the information we can have, not of course the research keys, and the confidence of those who are conducting the research. As we mentioned before, the conflict – I say the one that has materialized in the violent – has had some phases, there have been some paintings, there was in its time, in its time in April. Then there has been another sabotage of the company Ambulances Bizkaia in relation to the breaking of wheels in 90 vehicles. And then he's been growing up. We are talking about a company, we are talking about violent action against this company or these companies that work mainly in people's vehicles. That these ambulances can receive another type of sabotage that can affect people, health care providers, drivers, patients... That is to say, in relation to the subject. In that sense, it is not, of course, to say anything catastrophic. Indeed, it is to see that there are facts, a relationship of facts that have materialized with violence, and the perception, the analysis, of course, from its sphere of knowledge, of whether that can continue to happen, whether more acts of these characteristics are feared and what security measures are being taken to avoid them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u141	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u142	Eskerrik asko. From the utmost prudence, I insist Mr Barrio, it is clear that the hypothesis on which we are working is that the fire was provoked. That is a hypothesis that is on the research table, and all the technical and legal steps are being taken to clarify the origin of the fire. The proceedings that have been conducted so far by the Ertzaintza are in the hands of the Bilbao Guard Court, which, in its case, may authorize the carrying out of further evidence. Anyway, it's a fire, and in these cases there's always more to be done by research. So it's only for the moment that we're waiting for the researchers' work. Let the investigation make its course and let the results be decisive. I insist, what is appropriate is that we wait for the investigations to be completed, for the results to be transferred to the relevant court. Therefore, I insist, prudence, full confidence in investigations, full confidence in the investigative services of the criminal division and judicial police of the Ertzaintza, which is competent to clarify these facts of the burning of the 35 ambulances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u143	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, Edurne Garcia Garmbe, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the Chief of Justice, the Laborations concerning the action of the ST3 Society at the EDE." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Counsellor, we want to ask you today about the performance of your department in different open processes in EDE Taldea and ST3 Elkartea. As you know, EDE Taldea is a group of entities dedicated to social intervention in Bizkaia and Euskadi, within which is ST3 Elkartea, an association that performs mainly computer and design tasks. Recently EDE Taldea has unilaterally decided to take ST3 Elkartea to the creditors' competition to fire all its staff without paying compensation, and it is Fogasa who pays, as the unions denounce and despite continuing to have benefits. Currently, the staff has been on an indefinite strike since 21 February this year, in opposition to dismissals and requesting the relocation of the affected persons to the entities of the group. In recent years there have been a number of work irregularities reported to the Labour Inspectorate, and some such as this with a final court ruling. It is the department that you preside over that directly depends on Labour Inspectorate. We would therefore like to ask what action has been taken by the Department of Labour and Justice through the Labour Inspectorate on this issue, and what measures are being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u146	Thank you, Mr. President, all good noon. Mrs García, you ask me what actions my department has taken through the Labour Inspectorate in the case of ST3 Elkartea belonging to the EDE group. Firstly, I have to say what I have already replied in writing to a member of your parliamentary group, and it is the legal impossibility of giving concrete and precise information on the actions undertaken by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, since its computer law establishes the secrecy of these actions. However, I will answer you from the competition that the department has as labor authority. Indeed, the workers of ST3 Elkartea have been on strike since 21 February 2018. The indefinite strike was convened by the assembly staff, and was presented at the Bizkaia Labour Delegation on February 15, 2018. First, we study whether or not this company should be considered as providing a service that could be considered essential to the community in order to determine whether or not it is necessary to dictate minimum services, and we deduced that it is not. The company belongs to the EDE group, a group linked to social intervention, but it is an entity that develops technological services and gives comprehensive responses to technological and communication needs. During the duration of the strike and to this day no sanctioning file has been initiated in the Bizkaia Labour Delegation for acts that may be considered contrary to the right to strike. However, I can tell you that the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate has open investigation proceedings, from which will be deduced or not violations in the work order. I have no doubt, Mrs García, that these investigations are going to be carried out rigorously, and if any infringement is to be inferred from them, the relevant sanctioning file will be initiated. On the other hand, you refer to the fact that the company ST3 Elkartea is involved in a procedure for regulating employment. To this day, I can say that there is no record of these characteristics presented in our department. I can tell you that Bilbao's 2nd Commercial Court, by edict of December 26, 2017, published in the BOE of January 13, 2018, announced that by order dated December 14, 2017, the voluntary contest to debtor ST3 Elkartea was declared. Therefore, since the company is involved in a competition for creditors, it is the Commercial Court that is competent to intervene in any employment regulation files that may be submitted. In that connection, I would like to inform you that no request has been received to date from the court in order to draw up the report provided for in article 64 of the competition law, should the administrator request the adoption of measures for the termination or suspension of labour relations. If this occurs, the department, both the labour authority and the inspection, will investigate and act rigorously to comply with this request. In previous years, several files have been processed in the Bizkaia Labour Delegation, both of non-application of collective agreements and other employment regulation files, related to both the company ST3 Elkartea and other companies of the Taldea EDE group. All of them are already finished and archived, and I therefore understand that they are not the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u147	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u148	Look, Mrs. San José, or you've been misinformed, or you don't know what to do with these issues, because you haven't responded to anything I've asked you. I'm gonna try and explain it to him again. The workers and trade unions present at EDE Taldea and ST3 Elkartea have repeatedly denounced to the Labour Inspectorate the labour policy that is followed in these entities. The Labour Inspectorate is currently reviewing and investigating complaints that were filed in 2015 and beyond. As you hear, three years ago, Mrs. San José. But it is not just this, on 22 February, one day after the strike began, the workers and trade unions filed a complaint with the Labour Inspectorate for the replacement of strikers, and the Labour Inspectorate did not appear by the company or send anyone to ascertain the facts and put a stop to this constitutional violation, nor to the guard inspection, as is their obligation, nor to any other. Some responsibility will have your department, I say, which is who manages the Labour Inspectorate service in the inaction demonstrated in this case. You cannot continue to look elsewhere while the labour rights of women workers in these companies are being violated. In order for the Labour Inspectorate to carry out its duties, it is the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Justice to provide it with sufficient resources and means to ensure that decent working conditions are met. And that's what I'm asking you. I'm on it. The trade unions filed an application for illegal replacement of strikers, and for deriving work also illegally from other companies on 5 March, and after the trial, in a judgment of 3 May, EDE Taldea is ordered to cease immediately the violation of the fundamental right to strike and to pay in solidarity compensation of 12,000 euros. The Labour Inspectorate is neither expected nor expected, nor since the start of the strike and the lawsuit is filed, nor after the sentence. Last Thursday, 17 May, a new complaint was filed, because the group continued to violate the right to strike, despite the sentence. The Labour Inspectorate doesn't show up. Can you explain to us what's going on and what your department is doing about this situation? That's my question. Because we understand that the supervision of the work you have to perform Labour Inspection depends directly on your department and, therefore, it is also your responsibility and you have to assume it. As of today, the Labour Inspectorate, despite the sentences, still does not contact the representatives of the strike committee. In addition, as regards the competition of creditors of this association that is part of a working group of companies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Your time is up. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u150	Mrs. Garcia. I believe that the one who did not listen to me is you when I tell you that the actions of the Labour Inspectorate are reserved. And, in fact, for our part, no interference in their performance, and I think we should not interfere with the inspection. From our interventions, of course, there is a situation, I think it is complicated, which is affecting the workers of these companies and, of course, their future, from the legal point of view, is in the hands of the competition manager and the competition judge. As a counsellor, I hope that competitive actions can guarantee the activity and that jobs can be maintained. However, I would like to express the department's willingness to mediate, with the aim, of course, of improving the conditions of workers, whenever they ask us to mediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-25.u151	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty in the afternoon.
