ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, announce that the fifth point has been left for another, and the eleventh point will be discussed in the fifth place. First point in theme list: "To ask the question of the members of Mien Josunus Goroskape Eerkano, a member of the staff of the United States of England and Treasury, the temporary settlement of 2017 budget, and the documentation sent to the Euscene Law of the Basque Act." Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u1	Yes, thank you, and good day to you, Chief of Parliament, President, Chief of the Department, members of the legislature. Good morning to all of you. Mr. Below you, a special day for you. Last year 2017 was your first year on President Urkullu's crew and a hard year on the side of the job, and it's not normal to present and assume two different budgets in the same year. We had just accepted the last 2018 in December, but last year at the end of February you presented the preliminary of 2017. It was just a year ago, April 11, that we accepted the budget, approximately 11 billion Euros. From then on, during the year, we might say that this year, with the introductions, though they've had some serious years in the past, on the 2017, on the one hand, there's been more income from the Spanish government. And on the other hand, the collection of money which the aliens have acquired has been much higher than the prized. That's why there's been changes in the budget, too. We get information all the time in the legislature, we all get that information, but it's true that here and there often happens in this attic, that fun has to fill up the goals of stability, the various goals of budget stability, deficitation, or expense itself. And that's where it comes from, chief physician, our question. From the changes of entry in 2017 priors, and the execution level, and the provisional settlement sent from you to the legislature, considering all that, which you, head of the department, and the precise goals of increasing your rating to the stability of your budget. That is our question, Mr President-in-Office, given the increase in revenue that has occurred throughout the budget and taking into account the provisional liquidation, what is your assessment of the achievement of the objectives of budgetary stability? Without further ado, thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. And to answer, Mr. Subauzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u3	The President of the Parliament, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Gorospe, thank you very much for asking me this question. A couple of weeks ago, I gave the data after the Council of Government, why not, we have to thank things, to explain the deficit, public debt, and the execution of budgets. But as there is or seems to be a sufficient confession here, it is proper here again and here in the legislature to make these things clear. In 2017, the Government implemented 97% of total expenditure, with the exception of those for the railway Y, the depreciation of the public debt. The total budget without any exclusion of the whole was set at 11,513 million, 453 more than the initial one, as a result of the powers that were produced by the factors that you have also commented on. We must highlight the high level of implementation of social expenditure items. Health, health expenditure, was implemented by 100%, educational expenditure by 99% and employment and social policy expenditure by more than 95%. Government has reached 97% of the previous project and has to be underlined that programs corresponding to the social backup model have almost complete. The additional resources were due, as you know and as you have commented, to a time of above-budgeted revenue and to an exceptional daily agreement reached in relation to the Cupo liquidations for the period 2007-2016. In view of this exceptionality, three scenarios need to be analysed. If we consider the revenue and expenditure actually executed by the Basque Government in 2017 and taking into account also the Cupo agreements, the Basque accounts present a surplus of 0.41% of GDP, 295 million euros. Is this surplus real? Yeah. Is it comparable to the year 16 or the year 18? Well, no, because we have to homogenize it. If we homogenized them, there would have been a deficit of 0.11%, five tenths below what happened the previous year, and five tenths below what we had for this year. With this, we have also fulfilled these objectives with a laziness. And on the other hand, there is a deficit figure that the state gave 1.5% of GDP, which I think is best forgotten, because it is strictly an accounting issue. If CNMC's agreements are taken into account, Euskaki has the superabbit of 0.41. If we reject the effect of CNMC agreements, we will arrive at deficit at 0,1%. We have heard various voices call for 2017 surpluses to be used to finance expenditure for this year, especially in this part of the bank. It is not possible, it is not legal, today budgetary surpluses must be applied or allocated necessarily to the expenditure of the same year in which they occur and to reduce public debt, and we have done so, as I have explained on more than one occasion. What more would we have liked, than to have applied resources to the year 18. Perhaps in the future, as set out in the current draft budgets submitted by the Government of the State, we can apply them to unique and non-recurring investments for the following year. In short, as we intended, we have met the public deficit requirements and implemented our commitments by a high percentage. And again I thank you for the question, Mrs Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina, the President, concerning the degree of jurisdiction which EAE has. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. And the question is very brief. At this political moment, considering all the attacks which we suffer from the State of Spain, and which are coming to us, and the attacks which are to come to us according to all the blind, do you think that to maintain the political status of Arba, the vice, and the welfare of the citizens of Gipus, is sufficient to protect the decisions which we take upon us to secure our welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'll give you a very brief answer. No, it's not enough. And we need to do more, to get more manual, to agree to a political state and better protect our decisions. This is the purpose of our program and this is also the purpose of the self-generan crew. And that's what the self-gravity team is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u9	Well, if I have to tell you the truth, Mr. Urkullu, you make me a little disappointed once more, because in theory, your words always suggest to me that the bet for self-generacy really is very clear, but without actually reaching the depth of depth. I don't know what a problem we've got to decide about how to rule our futures. What, in fact, you know we have no guarantees. We have no guarantees. And to have no guarantees is to stay behind, and to stay in this situation is to stand back. Resisting without moving forward, it's going back because they're going to push us back from my point of view. Look, Mr. Urkullu, the assaults and threats against the Euskal people's auto-combination are not just the statements that Ciudadans has made this week. In the budget of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuia, he's partly repressed, and I'm not going to let you know how many resources we've had here, how many resources they've had in Navarro, about so many choices. But it's not just that three people in this town are in prison more than 500 days ago, the whole Alsau and Sakaana are persecuted by the terrorism of a bar fight and a young Amurumian is in prison for protest against dispersion. And this is happening here, and in this country there are parties that protect 155 in the government in one way or the other. But the majority of this people, either with champagne or chacolin or with water, knew how to free President Puigdemont, who had taken advantage of him, and also made a sort of giddiness of justice in Spain. She's a veldetik veldetik veldetik ez genuine ospakiz un horren aurrean edo jendearen were tzunen horren aurrean ez entzun. Entzun duguna da berriz ere 155ekoekin jarraitzeko asmoa duzuela, zer, beno, Mr Urkullu, the truth is that they do not cut themselves off and pretend to the best that we do not know, but the start of a pact with the Canary Coalition for the European elections puts them again with someone who supports 155. And are they going to go to elections with people who are willing to dismiss a government or dissolve a parliament? The movement shows itself walking and you make grandiose statements in favor of Catalonia, but it seems that you are dying to re-agree with the People's Party. And again you're looking forward to wishing to the popular Party. And my question is, if they get up in Catalonia 155, do you think that getting up formally gives you the green light to agree with Populative Party funds? Do you think 155 is just a single article? 155, you know it, it's a frame. Hence, the Basque Country will repeat that it is ready to make the vast alliances which protect the majority of this people, to assist and enlarge the rights of this people, to give them stability to this people. The question is, do you want it or not?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Iriarte, don't worry that even if you don't use anything other than me in my answers to your questions in which I mix myself as responsible for the Basque Nationalist Party and lehendakari with the questions you ask me, I will try to explain to the citizen I answer as lehendakari, no matter how much you don't want to understand it. En Todo caso, the question is, whether I think it is enough to maintain a limited right to the present political statuses in order to secure the welfare of the people. I do not know what it has to do with 155, the PNV coalition with the Canary Islands for elections to the European Parliament, which is the substance of the question. Anyway, I told you about your old involvement. No, it's not enough, and we have to do more to get more manual, and to agree to a political state and better protect our decisions, which is the purpose of our programme, and this is also the purpose of the work of the self-interest. You say "resistir sin avanzar." Well, I'll tell you what we're doing in order to develop and do what we're doing and what we're doing for it. One. I agree with the 11 grounds on which the legislative teams were introduced to update the auto-berine, on the 12th of January, 2016; and amongst them, our patrimony must be restored, which is said to be adapted to the new places in Europe. Two. We've agreed to a program of government, in which, for the first time, we've agreed to update the auto-gourage and get the rights of economic management of Social Security. Three. On September 21st, 2017, we worked a report to complete the state. The purpose is to facilitate the transfer of 37 to do. Four. "EunkoMing has confirmed: We'll make a sketch of the new state proposal about the specific principles and principles agreed on by the self-organization committee. Five. I'm confirming the plan of "Esquiring" to begin the transfer of Common-wealths, which are not authorized to defend the self-requestion, and to update the State treaty. Our program advocates to broaden the horizon of self-government in order to form in Basque a social space of its own and differentiated, more developed in the economic and progressive in the social, arbitrating more effective institutional mechanisms for the defense of Basque self-government. Yeah. As this Parliament approved yesterday, we request and urge the Spanish Government to submit, within six months, a concrete plan for the full implementation of the Gernika Statute and the transfer of the remaining powers. I'd like you all to be traveling with the whole of the law. It's clear that the more protected we get, the more powerful we can protect our jurisdictions, and we'll expand our self-organization. So, you know, Eukko's making offers to move forward. This, defending the solid foundations, and the principles I have alluded to, renders the agreement necessary, and renders no necessary preconditions, facilitates the agreements between the several, and makes no difficulty. To allow these principles, we can get an agreement to update and penetrate the auto-gourge. And that's our task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with Hiro with the members of the Podemos team to the president, about the State General Presidency." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u13	Good morning, Mr. President. As part of the negotiations that are taking place between the political formations facing the General Budgets of the State in 2018, the Rajoy government has threatened to resort to the Basque government's accounts for the salary increase of the civil servant. Whether it is carried out or not, Mr Urkullu, do you think your pacts with the People's Party are good for Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, I'm also worried about the threat, but the threat is threatening for the moment. And therefore I answer you plainly: The agreements you made last year with the Spanish Government have been good for Euskade, in our opinion, and a good and productive arrangement. Yes, the pacts reached by the Basque Government with the Spanish Government have been good and positive for Euskadi. The future is about to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u17	Urkullu jauna, I told you three weeks ago. Her hobby and that of her Government to wear medals is to make her look at it. You put medals on yourselves, you give reason, you alone congratulate yourselves and your pacts with the People's Party are very good for the country. Recognizing that those covenants are not resulting in what you expected does not seem to fit into your plans. I believe that there must be a great deal of courage to come to this House today to continue to build on these pacts. The Basque Nationalist Party, its party, with its pacts have created a monster by turning the People's Party into its preferred partner. And today their games with fire are burning us all, burning the Basque pensioners, burning the Basque women, burning the Basque officials and the teaching staff of public education. And do we still have to assess the degree of compliance with the pacts with the People's Party to know that they are being a fiasco? I think it is up to you to recognise, Mr Lehendakari, that perhaps you were acting in the belief that it was best for this country, but that the reality today is that these pacts are not good for Basque citizenship, they are not good for Euskadi. I believe it is up to you today, Mr Urkullu. Recognize it, because nothing happens, that this is a secret to voices, that this already knows all of Euskadi. Today, Mr Urkullu, on any street in Euskadi you will be told that you do not understand or share the pacts with the People's Party. From those summer statements of 2016, when they denied any pact with the People's Party, to those other statements of yours, Mr Urkullu, in which you came up, saying that without the support of the Basque Nationalist Party to the budgets Spain would be like Ireland. That's what you said. Or that the pacts with the People's Party strengthen the Basque self-government. What would you say today, Mr. Urkullu? Would you maintain this triumphalism? Or would you rather be a little more careful? Because these weeks the People's Party has left you in evidence; it has left you in evidence with the accounts it has presented; it has left you in evidence when it has threatened to resort to the budgets of its Government, that same budget that they have agreed with themselves. Lehendakari jauna, there's a rather chaste saying that it breeds crows and you'll get your eyes out, and that's what's happening to you, to your government and to your party with the People's Party. They've got the monster out of control. They have the monster putting at risk the working rights of the Basque official; they have the monster threatening to crush our self-government; they have the monster thrown away by their political games. And today, Mr Urkullu, given the panorama that is being presented in the state with the People's Party, with a Citizen, a PSOE competing with each other to see who is more centralist, fewer political games and more ethics are needed. Ethics not to support a corrupt government like Mariano Rajoy's, ethics not to bargain with those who do not invest in fighting macho violence, ethics not to bargain with those who trample the dignity of our pensioners. And I'll tell you more, and I'm done with this. Yesterday they were portrayed with the issue of pensions, their party and budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u19	This week he will have to re-represent himself with the situation of the officials.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u20	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Legs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u22	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Señor Martínez. I think if something doesn't fail me, it's memory, but in any case, I'm willing to admit that if I forget something, I remember it. I would appreciate it if you would remind me when I said what I said about Ireland in relation to the budgets, if I said it myself, I would appreciate it if you would show me. In any case, I tell you that the pacts reached by the Basque Government with the Spanish Government have been good and positive for Euskadi. Investments in high speed are positive, agreements for the underground arrival of the train to the capitals as well, agreements to reduce the electricity tariff to the Basque industry are positive. The agreements reached at the Security Board for the generational renewal of Ertzaintza are good for further improvement of public safety in Euskadi. The agreements reached to subsidize cultural or academic initiatives and associations in Euskadi are also positive. The renewal of the pact reached with the Economic Concert and the settlement agreement for the quota are good for Euskadi. I do not know which of these pacts or agreements you consider to be negative for Basque interests. It is true that the Spanish Government has threatened to resort to our budgets, approved, by the way, with the favourable vote of the Basque People's Party on account of the agreed wage increase, and the Basque Government is going to defend the position and maintain a pay increase that has already been agreed at the Civil Service Bureau. I hope, of course, to have the support of your group in this defence; the same one that we obtained, for example, with the support of your group in the Congress of Deputies to the agreement reached with the Spanish Government regarding the Economic Concert and the quota. I am concerned, indeed, that the draft State General Budgets may have an interventionist and regulatory technique that restricts or would constrain the autonomous powers and at risk, this time, of a twist of nut, and that they are to be subject to the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance all the hirings and appointments of temporary and temporary staff; if applied, it would mean a very serious setback in the agility and management capacity of public employees. And I am concerned, yes, and I am also concerned to the extent that I very much value that Spanish Government's recourse to our budgets; but the threat of this recourse does not invalidate the positive assessment of the agreements reached, Mr Martínez, which is why you ask me. So, you criticize the Populous Party and the Spanish government with enthusiasm, and also with the Basque Spanish government for the agreements, although I repeat, these agreements are good and productive for the Basques. The criticism is all right, Mr. Martíne, but that covers one thing: The Spanish Government has no majority in Congress and there is an alternative possible. Another budget could be introduced and accepted, as well as the key to the alternative, which is in your hands. It's your responsibility to have an alternative and to have it carried out. Our alternative, however, is to continue to defend Euskadi's interests, to promote agreements that are positive for our economy, for our industry, for infrastructure, for employment, for public services, for economic concert and for self-government. And by the way, I make my own the March 1 deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question was asked by Gloria Sánchez, a member of the Basque Society to the Chief of Work and Justice, by the Social Agents of Esscal on the 17th of January, 2017." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u25	Yes, thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. Mrs San José, collective bargaining is a key tool, the most important, I would say, to move forward in improving the working conditions of workers. It is also an effective instrument for balancing relations in the field of enterprise and economic activity in general. It is the social partners who are directly responsible for their development, but the institutions also have responsibility for supporting collective bargaining. Both the executive and the legislature can take steps to boost the agreements on the part of the parties. Therefore, from all areas, the interprofessional agreement on the structure of collective bargaining in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, signed on 17 January 2017, was highly welcomed; this agreement was to give continuity and wider scope to the agreement reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau meeting on 22 July 2016. The interprofessional agreement was signed under the Workers'Statute, with reference to Articles 83 and 84 of the Statute. The agreement guarantees the application priority of the territorial, inter-territorial agreements signed in Euskadi over any sectoral agreements or agreements of a pre-existing or subsequent state-level. The principles on which this agreement is based are none other than those already contained in the same agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau, such as the protection of the Basque area of negotiation and the permanent search for agreements. The Socialist Group made a highly positive assessment of the agreement and maintains its confidence that it will serve the purposes intended with its signature. Against this positive agreement, the Spanish Federation of Associations Dedicated to Social Restoration filed an application for challenge before the Social Law Chamber of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country. The application was registered on 5 March and was admitted on the 20th of the same month. The Court quoted the parties on 24 April. I reiterate our defence of the agreement and our desire for it to remain in force. The Socialist Group believes that the agreement between the parties and the social partners in Euskadi has demonstrated this will, which we fully support, in the area of collective bargaining. Without prejudice to the right of those who consider themselves negatively affected by the agreement and the respect that we maintain before the decisions of the courts, we believe that the matter deserves a political assessment. Mrs. San José, Counsellor of Labour and Justice, what opinion does she deserve from the challenge to the interprofessional agreement made by the business organization Federation of Spanish Associations dedicated to Social Restoration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u26	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Madame San José, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, all day members of the legislature. Indeed, Your Honor, on 5 March we were aware that in the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, in the Chamber of Social Affairs, the inter-professional agreement on the structure of collective bargaining in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, an inter-professional agreement reached by the four most representative trade unions of Euskadi and Confebask on 17 January, was contested and published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on 3 March. As you said, this agreement was welcomed by all sectors of Basque society that could be affected, by virtually all political forces and, as it could not be otherwise, by the whole of the Basque Government, and particularly by the Department of Labour and Justice, which, in compliance with the law, was responsible for publishing it in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. And I want to highlight this touch of legality of the deal that made us publish it. Our positive assessment was also based, to be said, on the fact that there was a window of hope for a stalled negotiation. Today we are faced with the challenge of the agreement by the Spanish Federation of Associations dedicated to Social Restoration and it seems to us that the claim of the aforementioned state employer is not welcome. The defence of a specific agreement cannot prevent the most representative trade union organisations together with the Basque employer from regulating or structuring collective bargaining within their sphere of action, as explained in the agreement reached and which they now seek to annul. I'm convinced you know that and that's why my second message. The Spanish Federation of Social Restoration Associations should reflect on the scope of its initiative and withdraw its demand. That is what I ask of you, from this parliamentary rostrum, with absolute firmness and roundness. You must withdraw that claim. The literal reading of the agreement reached in Euskadi indicates that it was achieved on the basis of Article 83.2 of the Workers' Statute and clearly established the application priority of the territorial agreements and agreements that were signed in Euskadi, but also referred to matters reserved for the State sphere in Article 84.4 of the Statute itself. That is why I also call for recognition of legality. During the next few days we will see how the facts are going, the Basque Government and specifically the Department of Justice and Labour would have liked us to be in the courts in defence of that agreement. We can't do this, because we're not legitimized for it, and believe me we've studied it. I hope that the defence of the signatories will be matched by the criteria of the applicants and, if the previous withdrawal is not made, the matter can be resolved in the conciliation procedure without reaching a judicial decision. Finally, I would also like to make an express mention in defence of the interprofessional agreement reached and I address myself directly to the signatories, ELA, LAB, Workers' Commissions, UGT and Confebask, making the agreement the valid instrument that we all thought. Negotiate and agree sectoral agreements in Euskadi. This is the best defence of the agreement, which is valid for thousands of workers who do not have an agreement in Euskadi, because the reality shows that the signed agreement improves working and wage conditions. Make it possible, it's not in our hands and it's in yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u28	Thank you, chief physician. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Public and Autobernus, of the House of Officers, of a trial opened to repair the expenses of the public and the government." [[Barres]] Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Larion. Thank you, Madam President, for the opportunity too. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. Egun where you're going. Today we bother you with this question, Mr Erkoreka, because I have to confess to you that on 27 March after the Governing Council, you made statements, an appearance, which we were concerned about, gave us some concern. And the reason for this question is to try to clear that concern and at least share it with you. Look, that March 27th in your appearance, you described as a tearing aggression against self-government, as a very serious threat to self-government, as a umpteenth aggression against self-government something that is in the DNA of the People's Party, as a threat to understanding between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, the setting up of a procedure to correct what is merely a technical dysfunction consisting in the fact that budgets of an autonomous community contemplate, as is the case, an increase in the salary increase for officials, when there are no approved General State Budgets. This initiates a procedure that you describe as I have just recalled. The surprise, and I confess that we occupied the People's Parliamentary Group a lot of time trying to decipher that alarm that you announced or ignited, the surprise comes because on November 6th last year – let's make some history – you already said that Erkoreka clarifies that the salary increase of 1.5 to officials will be effective when a basic regulation authorizes it. That is to say, since November last year your Government, and you specifically were aware that in order for this measure to have no technical problem, it had to be approved in the State's General Budgets. The surprise continues when the Government of Spain, as it is already public and well-known, has reached an agreement with the civil service unions to increase the salary of civil servants throughout Spain by 1.75 %, something more than we have also agreed on in Euskadi. That is, there is no material discrepancy at the bottom of the matter. The surprise continues – we are justifying that time spent trying to analyze what you said – because on 21 March you signed with the Vice-President of the Government the establishment of a bilateral cooperation commission to resolve this technical issue. March 21st. The surprise continued when there are eight other autonomous communities in the whole of Spain, nothing more and nothing less than eight more – three of them ruled by the People's Party – who are in exactly the same, identical circumstances, than those you alert and identify as a serious threat to self-government. The question, therefore, Mr Erkoreka, is: Is there really, today, so long after, can you continue to say that there is a tearing aggression against self-government by launching a purely technical procedure to solve a problem that is nothing more than a legal clearance problem like the one described? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Mr. Semper, the request made to us by the General Administration of the State to the Basque Government on 19 March, in which up to 10 possible violations of the Constitution are identified, is not an invitation to pass us through the Plaza de Santa Ana de Madrid to have some beers and to depart joyfully on legal-constitutional issues between tapa and tapa. No, no, No, no, It is a procedure, it is an invitation to complete a procedure that is provided for in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, in particular in the section on the time limit for bringing an action for unconstitutionality. The mechanism provided for in the law for the implementation of the remedy of unconstitutionality is therefore under way. This is the first procedure. In fact, I can tell you that the majority of the rulings that the Constitutional Court has been issuing in recent years – by hitting probably irrecoverable axes already to the Basque self-government – have started with a procedure that you call technical, irrelevant, but which begin there. Start there. We are in the area that the law devotes to regulating the remedy of unconstitutionality. The first procedure. And what is the sin of the Basque Parliament when it adopts a Budget Act that now wants to bring the central government to the Constitutional Court? The one you have just pointed out, that they agree on a pay increase for employees of the Basque autonomous public sector, which is identical to the planned fixed one, first agreed by Minister Montoro with their unions; and secondly incorporated into the draft budget law of the Government referred to the House, of the central Government referred to the House. Well, then, what's the bottom line? That is, what is the reason, why is the central government committed to raising this issue before the Constitutional Court? What's he after? That the Basque Government kneels down and with its arms crossed making a recognition of absolute submission to the basic norms of the State? You will understand that in these circumstances... Of course it's an assault! It is a threat that involves aggression against Basque self-government and, moreover, free and inexplicable in this case. Because, in fact, the wage increase envisaged here by the Basque Parliament does not exceed that envisaged in the central government. Why is this supposed to happen? What do you want? A submission, an act of submission and humiliation by the Basque Government? Explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u33	Mr Erkoreka, it is the opposition who ask the questions. What I have to say to you is that on 6 November you warn that it has been approved, as envisaged in the budgets of the Autonomous Community, it needs the authorization of the General Budgets of the State. There is a regulated procedure, a procedure that is put in place regardless of the political will of the governments, and that is that when a rule – in this case a budget of an autonomous community – I tell you that there are eight more in the whole of Spain in the same situation, that procedure is put in place. But you do agree with the vice president. You agree to resolve this in the bilateral committee naturally and normally. We're in a good time, Mr. Erkoreka, really. I understand that going out on Tuesdays to account for a small activity on the part of your Government forces you to alert them of things that are happening dramatic, that the monsters come, as Mr Martínez would say, but it is not so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u35	Mr. Semper, look, it's raining on wet. We are talking about an area, a matter, that of public service, in which it is more clear that coordinated action between the basic legislator of the State and the Constitutional Court is literally devoid of autonomous competence. We are talking about the area of public service in which the Basque Government agreed with its trade unions a few years ago if it could make relevant decisions on virtually everything that had to do with public employment. Remuneration increases, contributions to EPSV, working days, licences, permits, public employment, OPEs and others. Now, all of that can only be decided after Montoro has spoken about it, and negotiated it with their unions. In other words, the normative framework, the competitive framework, no longer born of the Statute of Gernika, depends on what Montoro agrees on in this respect, and what Montoro agrees defines the field in which we can act the autonomous communities. You tell me whether we are in a place where it is appropriate to warn or not of the new twists of nut that are contemplated in the rules of the State. The Lehendakari has just referred to a provision that you have incorporated into the draft budget bill that you have referred to the Congress of Deputies. Gravely, as the threat is made that any recruitment, any temporary recruitment into the public administration, any interim appointment, will have to go through a prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, we are subject to the actions of the public administrations and the actions of the staff to a relativism that will do everything harmless. And autonomy, self-government, nullified in the meantime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, made by the Congressmen of the Migenus Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector, under the license of the university, - on the part of young men with the official title of the school." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u37	This time it is. Thank you, Mr President, Mr President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Allow me, Mr. Semper, earlier I came out because it seemed to me that your question was irrelevant – it is a joke – but of course, Mr. Erkoreka's answer to the self-government has been worth it. At the end of March, the rector of the University of the Basque Country, the Balluer, made it clear when he said that the state of many young men with high appetite was scandalous when he said that his salary, a thousand dollars, was to be paid. And today we brought this here because it's a theme that's really worried about EH Collector, and we also think it's a theme that's really worried about the government. And I suppose this time, Mr. Urkullu, you will tell me, as Mr. Subazázu tells Mrs. Gorospe, that you are grateful to me for this question. Because I think there may be a way to do it together. At least, because we believe in the state of well-being, and for us, because it is a privilege, we believe that wages and especially for the young ones begin their employments, are a point of no other than that they can make social motion possible, and especially if we think that wages must be paid according to merit. Yesterday, even in my pensions, there was a dispute of my own, and we believe it is also on the other side of the coin. It is also clear, and it is well known what the attitude of EH Collect is about the pensions. We defend all pensioners, because that's what they call the European Social Letters, they have to charge 1 080 dollars. And at the same time, we think, that every salary, every salary of the people who work, must be secured, as it appears in the Social Letter of Europe, at 1200 euros, as well. Well, solidate, obviously, it's controversial. And I dare say, too, that at times it is morbid to talk about me. And for one thing, even for all of us who have been in public office, because the salary of the President is a kind of measure marked by the salary of the President, Mr. Urkullu, the place you occupy, the President of the community, has the highest responsibility. And besides this there is a demonstration which I shall at least confess. And it is logical to think, and how they are organized in a public function, that this must be a limit, and that, according to this, others must be organized. But that's not the case outside the public function. And I won't mention the way footballers pay wages are compared to the president's salary. Because that's incomprehensible, but we don't know. It's inexplicable, but we're not getting involved. But, well, with a lot of people who come together as president and work in the community, they have a much larger salary than yours, and they have no more on principle than on paper the President has. Askotan hitz egin beharko zenez, soldier zerekin lotuta egon beharko zen, edo momenturen batean nik uste dut Machadok aipatzen zuenean, "is of fools confuse value and price", but unfortunately it is also something of the usual. But coming back, because this is the beginning, to remind us of the data reported by the Rector, data that came from a report of the CRUE and also related to the barometers of employability and university public employment in the master's edition. But we are not going to talk about the masters, at least, because some have unfortunately taken them for a laudal, but we are going to remember, because I am very upset with what some have done, because they want to appropriate the work of others to improve their own image. But the reality is that the professionals who have a master's degree have been trained for more than 20 years, have been evaluated on numerous occasions, have carried out practices and the truth is that the situation of these professionals is that one in four, 26.83 %, with all that baggage on their backs, do not reach milleurists. The 43,18 are below 1,200 euros and two thirds of them are below 1,600. Of course, salary is not the only indicator of precariousness, but also when we see temporary contracts more than indefinite ones and also with gender difference. Of course, this also affects women more than men. It also happens in wages. The salaries of men under 1,200 are in 35% of cases, but in the case of women it is 50% in this CREU report. The combination, of course, of wages, temporality and types of work are indicators of precariousness. And it's not a good situation for the youngest. They are said to be formed, and when they do, what is what we offer in return? We used to say, es de necios confundior valor y precio, but that's what happens. A man who has great value is low in prices. And, Mr. Urkullu, if we come here and look at the latest data published by the profession of 2016, which analyses the shallow state of the titles of 2013, we see from 2009 the vast contract of 60% men, and in 2016, this has descended to 41%, 19 points. For women, in 2009, the 47% of women had unlimited contract, 31% of women in 2016. I'm talking about all the time the degrees titles were made in 2013. Even in partial labor, it was a bad tendency from 2009 to 2016. In 2009, 14% of the women and 6% of the men were partial work, but in 2016 the 29% of the women and the 15th of the men. And there's been a lot of incidents in the sodals too. The average wages have gone down, too. We find, too, a very different salary in respect of science. If this is one of 1.470 euros per month per average; if it is in experimental science, it drops to 1.155 euros; or, in the practice of health, it is higher than 1.700. It is true that in college a high-quality formation is provided, and the titles also practise, and that many of them, though more than one year, use it in another country, acquiring a great degree of knowledge and a great degree of capacity. But what's the message of society? That of Machad, at least, which belongs to the opposition. It's not what's given, it's not really worth the price, that is, the price. And that's what you plan on, isn't it? Let's see how much for this. And a reality is being created in which the youth labour market faces uncertainty and precariousness every day, linking short contract after short contract, poorly paid contract after poorly paid contract. And often also on part-time contract, even if the actual working time is full. And there's a few decisions that can be taken from the government, because after all it's also a level that's done by fun. That's why I used to mention your salary. And there, for example, in the First Chance program, there are also conditions set by your government. And that's what we find message? In this program it appears, in the end, that those who have finished colleges and have been hired to practise inactive young men under 30 years old, and as appears on grounds, are the least necessary conditions for contracting. The contract is not only a full-time work, but also a RedMunch is sponsoring partial jobs, over 70%, but partial ones. What's the level? License, engineering, architecture, or master, according to Bologna's plan, or Bologna Plan, raw wages, no clean wages for the 16285 per month, and college diplomats, technical engineering, technical architecture, or college degree, raw salary 1.085 euros. Besides, a salary is also crude, a clean salary won't come to be a millionaire in its degree, and that's exactly what Mrs. Balluerka also ratifies. The minimum wage that the Basque Government gives for good, in the Lehen Aukera programme, is 32 % lower, much lower than the average, than the average of the new graduates, and that is not to throw the market up, but down. Mr Urkullu, in his investiture he spoke of his commitment to creating quality jobs and yet this is not quality jobs. And the truth is that, I was telling you at the beginning, we think you will thank us for asking you the question, because the question is also raised as an opportunity, to reach a common diagnosis and also for the possibility of reaching comprehensive agreements, if we bet among all for the dignity of employment. That's what we want to ask the president today, what he'll do to get a decent salary from young people and have worthy conditions of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u38	Thank you, Miss Trouble. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u39	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Larion, on this occasion I am going to answer you, because we understand that the questions you ask the Lehendakari may have more information and give you more precise data to move forward on that path that you propose to us and, moreover, that I believe we all share, not only in the area of reducing the unemployment rate, which is an objective that we hope to achieve at the end of this parliamentary term, and if it can be better, but also in the area of the quality of employment, both in terms of remuneration and temporality and, therefore, I hope that we will find ourselves there. It is true that despite the fact that Basque youth are highly trained and trained, the crisis has hit them hard, as well as our entire society and all our tissues, both productive and economic. Fortunately, after the crisis we've had, the economy has a positive tendency, and now we have a chance to improve the conditions of work, especially the conditions of the young. This tendency ought to encourage the quality of employment, by diminishing the temporary and improving the prices. Currently, four out of every ten persons under 25 years of age find employment after completing their training process. The trend towards reducing youth unemployment rates in Euskadi is positive, decreasing since 2014, and is currently 15,1 % in the last quarter of 2017. Our young people are, indeed, a collective and trained people who have an initiative and a great commitment to society. That is why we in the Basque Government are already working to ensure that young people start their jobs, receive a first wage, have good working conditions and allow them to start their emancipation and their life plan as soon as possible. In addition, we insist on the need for institutions, businesses and society to work and work together to ensure that young people enjoy positive conditions that promote their emancipation and design of their own lives. To do this, employment of quality is to be obtained, and parallel measures must be taken, as well as the availability and consistency of the house. We are therefore very concerned about the precarious work of young Basques, and we are looking for solutions with actions and plans, which you know, and which we are developing from various departments throughout this legislature. From the Basque Government we believe that, as employment is the basis of a basic and fundamental relational fabric for the development of people, this aspect becomes more important in the case of youth. Through work we must promote the empowerment of the qualities of the person, which, in turn, reverses the positive development and evolution of the companies in which we work and, therefore, we are all going to benefit. For this reason, in our opinion, employment requires direct treatment for all persons, but especially for young men. The work model of our environment has historically not been the most conducive to youth, especially in crisis situations. Society in general may not have been able to combine the incentive and protection of experience with the incentive to innovation represented by young workers. But now we are transforming that concept that we already understand as a night off; if the age of access to employment or housing is delayed, the start of an independent life project is slowed, the formation of a family is delayed, the contribution to the common effort to the pension system is delayed and, in addition, the ageing of the population increases. Unemployment and occupation data are not a cold statistic, as they affect the economy, health, dignity of people and reflect the emptiness and loss of meaning for those who involuntarily live in this situation. In this regard, we firmly believe that economic growth is necessary in order to maintain a cohesive society, accompanied by sustainable social growth. Our fundamental project for Euscadi is the person, in his projection of society, and also the proper development of the economy, because we combine competitiveness and solidarity. Aware of this reality, this Government has incorporated into strategic planning a series of measures aimed both at overcoming situations of job insecurity and at supporting young people in their entry into the labour market in the best possible conditions. We are aware of the minimum wages that young people earn in their early work experiences and which sometimes take too long in time. And being aware of this reality, in the employment plan, strategic objectives have been set in the different areas that encourage the implementation of an independent life project for the youth of Euskadi. With regard to employment, the plan defines five strategic objectives, 18 lines of action and 42 priority initiatives. The five priority objectives for improving the employment situation are, first, greater rapprochement and speed in the transition from education to work; second, more young people with high-quality jobs, for whom young people's first job experiences are facilitated, the recruitment of experienced young people is promoted and work is done to improve the employment opportunities of young people in this group; third, improving the working conditions of young people, focusing on information and communication; fourth, more young entrepreneurs through the promotion of entrepreneurship; and five, the inclusion of young people at risk of exclusion, one of the pillars to avoid youth exclusion. The programmes we have activated highlight Lehen Aukera, a programme to which you refer, and which was launched in 2014, which targets the recruitment of young people under the age of 30 with vocational or university training in an unemployed situation and without previous work experience or with little previous work experience in jobs related to their qualifications. It is therefore required that employment has been accommodated and meaningful work experience for people. Lehen Aukera is not a scholarship program, but a resource whose main objective is to enhance the employability of young people, offering them a first job opportunity by hiring to break this vicious circle of the labour market, by which companies, on the one hand, demand young people with experience, but at the same time young people do not find work, because they are required a previous experience without anyone giving them an opportunity. This is because of this team that finances contracts where the Eukadin factories are placed, and which last at least six months. We've seen that in total, 3,000 young men are qualified to benefit. The salary established by the call is a minimum requirement, Mrs Larrion, and in no case limiting the establishment and salary perception of higher amounts. The call also provides that contracts may be full-time or part-time and, in the latter case, as you have said, not less than 70% of the working day. So, well, these contracts are intended to provide a first opportunity for our young people to enter the labour market in conditions that allow them to start a career, being aware that as they gain that professional experience, they will improve their wages. In this respect, I note that 89,79 % of the contracts subsidised in the last call have exceeded or been full-time. In addition, we are also promoting initiatives, such as the relay contract open to all types of training profiles, which is also a source of employment, both at company and public administration level. Thus, the relief contract encourages the renewal of business staffing, facilitates the transmission and retention of knowledge and internal experience acquired by the relief workers. Beneficiaries of this line are unemployed persons under the age of 30 who are hired through a full-time relay contract. This contract must also be indefinite from its inception, or become indefinite when the relieved person is fully retired. I insist that getting Basque youth to have the best means for their training, to gain vocational access to decent employment with an appropriate remuneration, and to plan and develop a project of their own life is the task of everyone, of businesses, of institutions and of society as a whole. We as an institution are putting in place a series of support measures, such as those I have commented to you, which favour a better situation for young people, a guarantee of a sustainable and solidarity-based advanced country. We will continue to work on the plans and programmes that we have in place and that are already bearing fruit, as the data clearly reflect, favoring a better situation for our youth that will allow for a first job opportunity for more than 20,000 young people. For this purpose, the Lehen Aukera programme is a fundamental tool, facilitating access to a first job experience through a temporary initial employment contract and remuneration that allows them to start their professional career. All this with the necessary involvement of everyone, companies, institutions and society itself. As we are recognized in many forums, our employment policy is one of the most progressive in Europe and has always limited economic resources, but proportionally higher than the context of other Union countries. But we are not conformists, Mrs Larrion, on the contrary, and we must continue to work especially on this issue in order to ensure that our young people have the best means for their formation and access to a market and decent work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u41	Well, with all we do, we communicate, with all the decisions we make, indeed, those are the minimum conditions. But that is the question, which for you it seems to you that the minimum admissible where you place it, that is precisely the question. It would only be necessary to penalize what is above that. But do you think it makes sense that this is the roof from which you should subsidize? Considering that we are not talking about any illegality, no one has talked about it. For you, what is the political message, what do you think is acceptable for the recruitment of young people? Does it tell me that, in fact, as the Lehen Aukera programme states, a net salary of less than EUR 1,000 for graduates and a gross salary of 1,280 for those with a master's degree is acceptable to them? That's exactly what we were talking about. And he tells me he's okay with it. You will know, but I am sure you will know it, the Eurofound report of 2017 on fraudulent recruitments, where it is precisely that in the Spanish state – and in this we have no difference – the message that comes from the different employers' associations is that inexperienced workers are not productive, to justify precisely that such training is necessary, to justify precisely the precariousness that is offered. And if you pick it up in that report and highlight it as a characteristic, it is not because it is the norm in Europe, quite the opposite. Once you go to Europe you see the recognition given to young people who have university education and it is very different from the treatment offered by the Spanish State and of course Lehen Aukera among them too. Because in that there is no serious difference, in treatment and concept. But he's certainly not the only one who sets it that way. If you also read the report of the European Employment Observatory of 2017, where the methodology established by the Nobel Prize in Economics Joseph Stiglitz is also used, where what is raised in that observatory is to answer the question of whether the growth of employment is being achieved to the detriment of the quality of work, and the answer of 2017 is that there is a shrinking of middle-paid jobs, and a strong increase in low-paid jobs. And decisions from a government where the minimum ceiling is, of course, influence whether we are going to consolidate the middle pay tranches, whether we are going to push the high pay tranches, or whether we are going to encourage the consolidation of increases in low-paying jobs. Those are the kinds of political decisions a Government can take. Confebask asked at the end of March, also after Balluerka's words, to guide young people to professions with the best wages and mentioned Medicine, Engineering and ADE. Let's see the data you have in Lanbide for those graduates, because do you know what data are from people who have had to emigrate for work reasons on that promotion? For in Industrial Engineering – you have them – 15% of the promotion to another country; 10% to another autonomous community – which I give for lost in another autonomous community as well. We've lost 25% of the promotion. In Architecture 13% to another country, 10% to another community; in Automatic Engineering 19% to another country, 10% to another community; 29% of the promotion. In Telecommunications Engineering 7% to another country, 21% to another autonomous community; Medicine, another of which points to Confebask, 28% to another autonomous community. And ADE, 4% to another country, 8% to another autonomous community. What is the message being given to young people? What is the message that Lehen Aukera is giving you too? Because the conditions of the Lehen Aukera programme for a person with a university degree are lower than the minimum wage of any worker in England, Scotland or Wales, who is in 1,462; of Germany, who is in 1,497; of France, who is in 1,498; of Belgium, who is in 1,560; of the Netherlands, who is in 1,578; of Ireland, 1,614; or of Luxembourg in 1,998. How come they're not going to emigrate? How are they not going to emigrate, of course, part of that promotion, when the message given to them is no longer what the labour market says – because the results of the labour market are higher – if the commitment we have as a country is not to encourage that rise? That is the question we raised here today. We have to consider what to do as a country, because it is up to your government to identify your situation and to identify and address society with messages that of course should be far removed from the fact that the new graduates are not productive, but instead, the new graduates have accumulated skills, knowledge and practices, sufficient to be values for this society. To prevent social inequalities it is up to you to act. And that was the question and that's the one we're asking you now. Will they allow these kinds of scandalous situations to follow and endorse them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Larion, I believe that you and I and everyone here share the concern that people, especially young people, have quality jobs that will enable them to carry out a life project. When I was asking myself what were the issues we had to deal with and the situation in which young university students, but not only university students, in general all young people working in this country have the same difficulties of both temporality and wages and, therefore, we focus not only on the university or graduate fields, but also on people who have other qualifications. We also have to make an analysis of why these situations are taking place. From the university level they will also have to do a reflection and are doing so. If they have to concentrate these powers in order to make them more competitive and in some way train the professionals that the companies are doing and for that from the Department of Education together with the university and the rector are doing this analytical work in order to correct in what it is the professionals that the companies in the future are going to perform and will need. In addition, we as a government are doing things and we have also been putting them into different agreements, such as that last June, in 2017, we signed together with the universities with the aim of making progress on the opportunities that young people – in this case they were university students – would have in view of having these decent jobs or with adequate working conditions. But the Lehen Aukera programme on which it has focused, its main objective is to provide an initial opportunity for young people who do not have it at the moment. When you quoted me the salaries that young people in other European countries – Germany, Norway, you have been commenting on – they had the economic amounts of 1,400 euros. Ours is 1,285 for senior graduates. 1,400 in relation to 1,285 taking into account the average wages that these countries also have in relation to those which we have, sincerely, Mrs Larrion, I think are quite proportional to what these European countries that you set as an example do in relation to what we do. I would like to highlight the Lehen Aukera programme, in the sense that it is intended to give young people that opportunity to work on something related to what they have studied, at a time and at an early stage of their professional career, which would allow them to break, as the vicious circle had previously told them, to initiate that professional experience which would allow them temporarily with those salaries which we understand are sufficient to start this initial professional experience, a career which would allow them to increase their salaries throughout their training and work. Because young people have training and it is young people who have the most recent training. What they lack is experience, that that is one of the important components that entrepreneurs also need in carrying out recruitments. And what we're offering them is, since you have that training, we're going to complement that lack of experience with this program, Lehen Aukera, with a full-time contract in most cases, almost 90% of the contracts that have been signed were full-time, and with a salary that is temporary; that what would be a mistake is that that salary would be chronised over time, and would be extended more than minimally necessary. I would like to end by telling you, Mrs Larion, that the employment rate of youth unemployment in Euskadi has been gradually falling from 2014 to 2017, it has fallen by 14.4 points. We have an unemployment rate of 15.1%. Something will also have to look at the things that we are starting from the government. The perspective of young people is that they will have a better future. 78% trust to find employment within a time frame of less than one year, and that job will also fit in. And so, what I want to remind you of, Mrs Larrion, is that we cannot do this alone. We are working with universities, we are working with entrepreneurs, we are working with society as a whole and we hope that we will achieve the objectives we seek.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventh point on the theme list: "Intertermination, the Forest, the members of the House and the legislatures of the Levant, the Basque Economy and Social Problems, for the Equality of Women and Men. "About the reading on the planet." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The Economical and Social Councils, the Seventh for the Equality of Women and Men, composed of the Economical and Social Institutions. We examined the draft of the plan and received a full report last week of the evaluation. And now we've had a chance to examine it. There are a number of subjects mentioned, of which we can no doubt consider, and we can share some. Others may not, but we'd like to use the opportunity to talk about it today. Nevertheless, before we begin, we wish to express clearly that this dynamic which is to be extended to all other institutions and institutions is indispensable from the principle of necessity for the purposes of equality. It has been an achievement of their socialization and their necessity, and in the latter, we have steps to take, for instance, in our opinion that these plans are necessary in enterprises below 250 workers. But yet, to make this clear, and considering the work which the offering has undertaken to promote and control these plans, CES's investigation has brought some keys to the center of the discussion, and I would like to reach it immediately. We agree on the need for strategic equality planning tools, such as these equality plans. But we have the feeling and it is shared by techniques of equality, feminist movement, academics, that nowadays these equality plans have become more the goal than the tool that should be in many cases. That is, we need plans to implement real policies, with specific budgets, and with periodic evaluations to assess impact and results; and not precious plans full of "brendis in the sun" and staying in the closets of some municipalities or companies. Let's see how many points CES speaks of. On the one hand he says this plan is consistent. And in his time we had here the director of the Eregation, Landalida of Izak, the seventh of the legislature. To inform us of the plan, at the Human Rights Committee, and about it, we talked about this continism, and we wanted to put this conformity to our team in value. Because the state of discrimination of these women has not changed for four years, and has continued to give way to those institutions which have already been employed, and which have already been carried on, and to those who have been successful. And so we insisted on the necessity of this constinism. But if, in this sense, we understand that this plan of equality must be consistent, and if we consider the effort of not interrupting the work that is done, we bring here a question which we put upon our table at its own time. And this reflection, too, was one of the ideas which CES formed in some way on the table, whether it be not convenient to give a certain turn to the four-yearly necessity of the four planets of equality. We want to emphasise it again, to make it very clear, that we don't want to give a clue to this plan once and for all that attitude of thinking is enough. But to make those who are at work the least obstacles as much as possible, or to give them the means of strengthening this work, I think it's important to lay a reflection on the table. The expenditure on resources and the time that technical staff have to invest in this process corresponds to a specific mandate of the law, that of the obligation to draft and approve a new equality plan each legislature. But this in the townships, where there is often only one technician, paralyzes a lot of work at the time of evaluation and new plans. And if they don't paralysize, the conditions of these technicians are often preliterated, because they double their hours of labour for their goodwill. Many of you may probably know the work of the techniques of equality in the townships. From the feminis of the Militance, they have a great deal of work and beauty, partly because they work from the engagement, because they work from the whole belief, because they work in this means of promoting the part of the feminist movement. But to promote the preparation of these labourers of the public, or to promote that immense labour which they have in certain ages, is our concern, and we cannot abandon all this labour to their will. Hence we conclude that it may be interesting to examine this proposition of the manufacturing plans rather than to make these new plans of equality. That was one of the ideas CES discussed. Or to give occasion to the Institutions of legislation; or to suggest a priori Institutions of actions; why, for four years, we do not spend, I know not why, six years, the means of making certain actions during the time, and at the same time at the time of the evaluation, we should have more time to do and study them. They're just ideas. We're not going to be the ones who propose a specific idea. I think there's more of them working on it, especially the technicians, because they're thinking much more about it. It is true that we have often been informed of it, and that we made use of this moment, because CES himself had this idea laid upon the table. We believe that seven models of equality, after a 28-year-old career, may give way to the best method of re-forming. We'd like to know what your government's opinion is, Mr. Urkullu, about this particular proposition CES made himself. On the other hand, CES shows that there has been no methodology for a suitable participation. We believe it to be an expression to take seriously, because it is impossible for public policy not to do with people who are responsible for these policies. And about this plan it is implied that feminist movement, which has been provided for women's associations, has been given the opportunity to send them, but that no space for discussion and negotiation has been spread. And this appears to us to be quite relevant. He who is to be the conductor of plan for the years to come should not be a different methodology, we know that he must have another share, and we know that a serious participation asks for time. Hence we shall go back to the previous discussion, and we meet at this four-year-old necessity with limited intervals of time, with the necessity of working on the current, and perhaps if we extended these plans in time we could develop a few more interesting processes, which might be more methodically more interesting. What does your government think of this? To conclude, he was accused of a want of exactness in this setting, and the Institution made answer, that it is a frame of plan, and that every institution and organization afterwards ought to determine what kind of action it is to be done. And all right, we're here to have a frame of plan, and then we're gonna have to perform the actions of the individual, the organization, and the institutions. But we think there may be a point of middle-point between each other, that is, we could improve the direction much more, and yet it would still be possible for any one to complete and develop these plans. In his time, too, we said that the targets were grasped, but sometimes we saw a lack of accuracy. So, as I said, reflection can be considered. We believe that it is time for us to reflect on the course of our plans, to learn and learn the ways we have made, but we have a chance to do otherwise, seeing the way we have made, to draw out instruction and make a new course. Do you agree, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. My landlady, I am considering your reflection, and I am convinced that Mrs. Landaida, who is the general director of the Renaissance, will also consider that you have mentioned that she had made a show and that you spoke to her about it, and I have spoken to her about it. The equality of women and men is a primary aim for the whole of the Eukong, even for the whole society, as you mention, and no doubt that we appreciate the contributions we receive from the "EH" and that we have just presented economics and social councils-yes, you must know it, and you have strongly insisted on it, Mrs. House and Mrs. VII. The plan is a guide document for the entire public administration for the rest of the world. Thus it is said that the law of equality in 2005, in each legislation, is the law, and that is the law, in each of the legislation, is to approve of a general plan, which is to be regulated and received by the popular authorities in the order of women and men. This is what the law says. The objects which are thought to be primary in the planet are expressed, but they do not receive any definite activity, nor do they belong to each administration according to its rights. The plan of equality or of equality does not therefore belong to the combination of its economic content. Each organization will determine its budgets, and the degree of execution and practical development of the VI. I would like to highlight the experience of the principle of equality in this. For instance, every group of equivocations has a plan of equality, each forum has a plan of equality, and 118 councils of the community have a plan of equality. Being a plan means having persons responsible and budgets, but this has to be directed by each organization. It means that a people invests in equality, and invests it more and more in all institutions. Being a plan requires an evaluation and a solution to find out or give up the results of the evaluation. CHAPTER VI. I also wish to emphasise the evaluation of the Plan of Equality or Equality, because CES also has said something, and I disagree with what CES said. Positive is estimation. He's still on his way to equality. I want to highlight the structure and professional organizations of the organizational institutions, including many companies, more and more. In March, for example, Bai Net was created in several companies to promote equality between women and men. This network, Bai Sarea, Mrs Etxebarrieta and you know it well, is a good example of a specific project born from the impetus of the Plan for Equality between Women and Men. This Plan is a guiding document, a guiding document, as you have also recognized, to promote and promote equality throughout the public administration and in Basque society in general. The Equality Plan identifies the strategies on which to focus, and not concrete objectives, is not their role and has never been. The new plan that is being prepared is the VII that our community has, as you have also indicated, a community, which I insist is a pioneer in equality, as evidenced by the implementation of Emakunde, the adoption of the Equality Act, or the implementation of equality plans themselves. And throughout this integral journey it has been shown that the participation of economic and social actors has been increasing, increasing. More than participation, we can therefore talk about involvement, without a doubt. Look, we respect and take into account the proposals put forward by the Economic and Social Council, and it is worth a thought, but it is important to know that the Equality Plan does not have to compromise an economic content. This Plan sets the agreed priorities, proposes a comprehensive strategy and then each institution has its own budgets and resources which, as you have said, can be in personal resources or in economic resources, also questionable what the implementation of this Plan may also entail in each of the institutions, but it is an issue that affects the institutions themselves, if any. I would like to reiterate that Euskadi has the experience of having already adopted six equality plans; evaluated plans, as you also know well, and improved on each occasion; plans that under no circumstances committed any economic budget, because this is not their objective; plans implemented with a high degree of commitment. I would also like to reiterate that our commitment is also in order for our country as a whole to invest in equality, for Basque institutions to be committed to equality and for businesses to be increasingly committed. Basque society, I believe, is progressing on an equal footing, that we have come a long way. What's left to do? Yes, of course, and I have certainly recognized that. However, you will also agree with me, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that Basque society as a whole has been a pioneer and that its commitment has been growing. To me, personally, nothing makes me suspect that this will not continue to be so. Of course, the commitment of the Government as a whole is guaranteed because equality is considered a country's priority objective in our agenda. So we take all the contributions we receive, and I'll give you the exact examples proposed in the new plan, and then I'll tell you why. One. The Economics and the Social Council proposes an axis to take care of education. He has new plans to support the strategic purpose, in a wider concept than suggested by the Council, and, moreover, according to the aim of the guide to the prevention of the community and of the violence of the genus. Now, the goals that are taken to work with the Board of Education are directed in the schools to integrate education, to prevent or prevent the educational chances and academicities, and to promote structures, people, and programs for equality in the education system. Two. The new plan is to achieve an economic transformation and the purpose of promotement of the social and social, we plan it together with the most complicated social and economic operators, because with companies, with the organizations of the third sector, and with the community, we have to spread the network on the planet. Three. He's making a very specific EukMUE plan to crack up the pay-based pay-based. We've started together with all the relevant departments. We've also been dealing with economic and social agents. There have been, or has already been a meeting, a resolution of economics and social council, but first, and that is, what I would like to remark. Four. I mean, it's just that EukMIK has proposed specific measurements for the public. These proposals were proposed at the level of the General Administration, and the Government Council accepted them on September the 6th, that is, before the Constitution of Economics and Society. Five. The field where new plans have to be improved has been introduced into the radio violence field of women, and here are certain exact measures: This will probably bring about the violation of violence against women in order to aggravate the law, to improve the attention of the women against violence, to renew the third arrangement to the co-ordination of the organization, to improve and strengthen the daily improvement of the professionals who are engaged in violence, or to encourage and strengthen the prevention of violence against women. All which, as has been said, we take notice of Madame Housebarrie, of the Order of Economies, and of the Council of Society, which we consider, but are the measures taken before her resolution. So, Mrs. Houseland, don't hesitate to agree to the end of equality, and to consider your reflection as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u49	Yes, thank you. This is the good and bad side of the line. I mean, we used to place the policies formerly related to equality in a particular place, put them in a concrete area of public politics, and we did not dip all the anbitos with beautiful equalitys. It has been a good side of the concrete for several other areas, we would say that everybody in many other departments must have been involved in it because it's the responsibility for equality, and because we have to place the responsibility everywhere. But this often obscures our view of what we are doing or what we could do. We see with difficulty all those different works which are being given under the same umbrella, and therefore these interintinemental tables are important, those tables among the departments, but always with a firm guidance, according to certain political decisions, don't they? And we believe in this sense that the planet of equality may, perhaps, with greater exactness, with more ambition, be able to identify certain circumstances, which often occur too vague to us today, though it represents important lines, to see what proposals are made in them. That's a lack of precision in the budget. You've stated that we haven't even introduced it because we know it's not the object of this equality plan and the responsibility to determine these budgets, but it can determine the course of these budgets. That is to say, to make proposals to the departments, to make those policies which the different institutions will discuss for equality real, to determine what budgets should be identified. We believe in actions that we ought to answer from the government, for instance, because we see that we had a few plans of equality in the departments, and we had a chance to examine them and all the sections that Mrs. Arana of Podemos had asked of us. Some of them had this thickness, some of them four pages, and we believe that this says a great deal about the complication in which each department has, about the position of each department. And how do we evaluate this? Who's going to evaluate this? Who's going to evaluate this route? We believe in this sense that even the planet of equality ought to place some minimum in order to prevent such differences. We often meet with ambitious prospects, and we believe, as we said, that it is necessary to determine certain limits. We have often said, in our opinion, that the contribution of the economic games which this government makes around equality is involuntary, because we still have a great deal to do with this problem which demands an answer of the size, I agree with you. And I think budgets indicate a great deal, besides their will, what we are prepared to do with particular actions. And I'd like to end up taking part. Because that's what we think is important. Where do we have this powerful feminist movement, you indicate, we have a highly conscious crowd, a crowd that works. On March 8th, I believe, it was curiously apparent, but it is not only a work of March 8th. That came after the last few years of action. And that day we used to identify as historical we should be able to respond to size. I was in the presentation of Basque Country 2030, and you said that the community's involvement was indispensable in this. Then let's give it a chance to participate. We've got a crowd that's very organized. In this sense, when we know, we'd be talking about feminist movement. And again, all these contributions, not only from the CES, but from the feminist movement, we ask you to consider ours with the budget, the intervention, and the re-formation, to have effective tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as I am the President, I believe that equality between women and men is a priority in the Euskalism, and that our community has been a precursor, and so I insist on it. So that, since the creation of the Election, the Law of Equality, or the Plan of Equality, we shall receive it this year. See you plan. He has shown that he has a collective commitment to equality, and I believe in general that we are also a reflection of it. If you know that the theme of equality is a right which the society itself proclaims more and more strongly, and has shown us so far as we have made the evaluation of the law, and we saw it in a very clear manner, and with the mutations that were in our society on March 8th, which you mentioned, and so I brought it out here too. You're making a racket about the RedMork, well, you're gonna have to answer that social request, of course, he's been answering it for years, and he's still doing it for years, still more power. It's going to get stronger and stronger, because it's going to get stronger and it's going to get stronger and it's going to get stronger. That commitment is not anything, and that is why equality is chosen between the fifteen strategic aims of our people. Because yes, Mrs Etxebarrieta, the new Equality Plan opens up new channels for further progress and improvement, including by encouraging and increasing the involvement of the administrative structure itself of the whole autonomous community and also, for example, of the Basque Government itself. The new Plan contemplates the dimension of co-education as I have stated before. The new plan responds to the objective of promoting economic and social transformation. The Basque Government was drawing up a specific plan, for example, to eradicate wage discrimination and reduce the gender pay gap. And we have launched it with the participation of economic and social actors. The Basque Government has proposed measures in the area of conciliation, not everything is the Basque Government's own budget, but also all the actions that encourage the Basque Government itself to take in society as a whole, whether in public institutional collaboration or in public-private collaboration. The new plan incorporates areas for improvement, for example in the area of violence against women. You've made a set of lines, and even in that, I think, it's a joke too, not only with the budgets that tend to the results in general, but also with the budgets and the length of the line. And we have produced these means, all those which I mentioned in my first speech, as well as those which we are trying to promote in the preparation of the VII. Plan, we have drawn them up before the Economic and Social Council resolution, because I insist that equality is a priority in Euskadi. It is increasingly so since the launch of Emakunde, since the adoption of the Equality Act, since the adoption of the I. Equality plan until this VII. that we will approve this year. I sincerely believe that Euskadi has shown a collective commitment to equality and that he will continue to demonstrate it, and that this is our commitment as a government and as a government program. As for participation and openness, participation, you know, Mrs Etxebarrieta, how it is possible that the Emakunde Board of Directors will also facilitate such participation with the representation that exists on the Emakunde Board of Directors. And you know perfectly well, Mrs Etxebarrieta. So, advancing in equality is a priority to us. This is an strategic object of the nation, and a commitment to all the institutions, and an engagement which the society of Basques intends to accept and encourage. And with that we'll also be pioneers even to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the Forest of the House House and the Congress of the Levant, the President Roberto of Confebask." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u53	"The women are apt to choose ill-paid jobs." Roberto, President of Confebask, this is talk. In addition to this, the company, inquiring about the cracks of his pay, added that it might be one of the reasons why the women were not attractive. And in front of it, and so far as this collective person stands for a portion of his salary against the crack, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Urkullu, if you like to use these words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Madam Housebarre, when I have received these questions as to my opinion, or my judgment, I believe, and I shall confirm my answers to the present day, I do not think that the President of Confebas has given me the opinion of me on a radio, and that he suddenly made my judgment on the expressions he had made of them. In any case, I think we ought to hear the whole of the conversation, and that it is no good to choose and bring about certain parts without a context. I think, then, that if we bring anything, we should bring it in the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u57	In four minutes, it's hard to get a full conversation. We thought it important to bring in what has been said in this proportion of which we are speaking of our calling wages, because what has been given us at least, as we have said, as the representative of an organization with presence and action at that table, was a phrase that might have been thought. When I was a boy, I used to play with Barbie because I had decided, because I wanted to be a model, a singer, or an actress, because I chose to be my blue priority for life, because I had decided it; I learned journalism, because I had decided it, and I refused the management of a newspaper because I had decided it. Or, in other words, I didn't play football because I decided to, because I didn't dream of shooting, politics, or mechanics, because I decided I wouldn't be able to live alone with myself, because I decided that I didn't play it in a professional form, because I didn't make any demands in a company because I decided it, and we don't choose the best-paid jobs we women have paid for because we've decided on it. It's a good thing Roberto has reminded us that we are all women, because we deserve it because we've done nothing to change it. And thanks be to the fact that the Confebas of Roberto contributes to the crack of his salary, so that this view may be present, and that he has nothing to do with these women, our cares, and the business of the world. For what would this table decide otherwise? What thousands of women cried out on March 8? Or would it be possible to consider the proposals made by the unions? How dare you? And it seems to us that he could weep because he really says what he says because a sentence says a lot. And we talked about the need for paradigma change in the past few weeks, even on March 8, when we talked about that change, those who continued to work on their backs and work on such tables. You're working with those who don't take care of them. And where's the feminist movement in all this work, Mr. Urkullu? You have a companion and a feminist movement. He doesn't share that table. You have an interest in the moving road, and those who wish to build it, to the feminist movement, you do not extend an invitation to it. Every diagnosis has been built for a long time by crack of a salary, and the results have already made them. What we need is measures. In Iceland, they'll force the corporations to get a certificate to make sure they don't have the pay cuts, and while they don't do it, they'll fine them. You'll be willing to take measures like that at that table? Or will you continue to do the things that are left behind the women's back?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Congressman, thank you. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I do believe that in four minutes it is possible to pick up what you said the president of Confebask said in the interview, as well as what the president of Confebask, who also referred in the same interview to the responsibility of the company itself. In particular, he said that "it is necessary to make it more attractive, in order to promote the incorporation of women, because it cannot be dispensed with the talent of 50% of society". And he added, "We need women to be more involved in the industry." I think it is possible in four minutes to collect these mentions too, in addition to what you have done. I do not think, therefore, that we ought to feed the polemics, or bring any stereotypes pre-made to the legislature. A challenge, a real opportunity, we have to put it on the table, there's the key. We must use this opportunity to enable women to enter the market in an active manner, and especially to encourage them to work on the more important jobs required by industry. That 50% of the talent of our society takes advantage of the equal opportunity, that's our chance, and I agree with that. I agree with that. We have a strong commitment to fight our salary against discrimination, Mrs. Houseland. Women, men, ought to receive the same wages, and to abstain from it is a crime of labour, and therefore it is our responsibility to control, harass, denounce, and punish the state of dissecting. In this Illus also we have another firm commitment to the professions which have hitherto been chosen by a few women, according to the President of the Association of the Clubs of Education, only 5% of the greatest demand in industry. So we have to work for the solution of this instability and the use of this opportunity. And again, we cannot fall into stereotypes. I know that corporation organizations are concerned, and I know Mrs. Homeland, and they really want to increase the shares of women in business and industry. I am aware, Mrs Etxebarrieta, of the entrepreneurial commitment to dual training, both in vocational training and in university. In fact, Confebask is one of the organizations that will receive this next Monday an award from the Hetel Association for its commitment to vocational training and the insertion of students in companies. And this path allows for progress in reducing the wage gap. We therefore maintain a deep commitment to increasing the integration of women into business and industry, and I am aware of the commitment of business organisations to that goal for which we must continue to work tirelessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, to maintain the abode of Siemens Games in Eukadin." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chairman of the department, members of the legislature. Lord lehendakari, in 2016 Gamesa was the leading Basque company in the renewable energy sector, it was our crown jewel. 10,000 suppliers worldwide, of which 800 are, were in Euskadi, 300 million euros in purchases here in Euskadi. However, Gamesa had a problem and is that its main competitors sold more than 50% of the mills, of the wind turbines at the site where they were based, while Gamesa between 2014 and 2016 did not sell a single mill, not only in Euskadi, but throughout Spain, thanks to the reforms of the energy sector promoted by the People's Party, by the Socialist Party and of which its party was also an accomplice. This led to the removal of Gamesa in 2017, in April 2017, by Siemens, which led to the loss of corporate control of the company by the Basque shareholders – in this case, Iberdrola – who became a minority. Iberdrola, just a year later, has not even done a year since the absorption, has already denounced that there is a serious risk that Siemens will fail to comply with the agreements, both to maintain the head office in Euskadi and the decision-making centre in Spain. However, the attitude, the public position of his Government through Councilwoman Tapia has been to say – and I read it textually – that "there is no doubt whatsoever about Siemens Gamesa's commitment to Euskadi". So, I ask you, because you have been meeting with the Siemens company, accompanying Mrs Tapia, whether you are going to demand or whether you have demanded, but especially if you are going to demand publicly, as Iberdrola has done to Siemens, that you comply with your agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, it is not necessary for me to do anything publicly when I have been meeting, as you say, with the President of Siemens AG himself and, indeed, on 4 April I held a meeting with the President of Siemens AG, Mr Joe Kaeser, in which the President of Siemens Gamesa and the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructures of the Basque Government participated. The meeting was cordial and positive. The president himself expressed his commitment to stay in Euskadi and to comply fully with the merger agreement, as well as the commitment to strengthen decision-making centres in Zamudio, through Siemens Gamesa, and also in Zumaia through Siemens Engine Business. We also had the opportunity to comment on the difficulties that Siemens Gamesa itself recognized during the first year, as any process of corporate merger must overcome during the first years, difficulties that have also been added to the market problems faced by the new entity and that gave rise to us, too, to comment on what had been the evolution of Siemens Gamesa in the international market with global competitors, even with the fall of the market in India or with the fall of the market at international level, and the increase or growth and leadership of Siemens Gamesa. The relationship between the management of the company and the Basque Government is fluid and close. We keep up-to-date information on the evolution of the company and the areas of collaboration, Siemens Gamesa's participation in the strategic initiative of the advanced manufacturing centre in wind energy components and the plan to link with Basque suppliers and technology centres, for example, is the way to maintain the effective anchoring of Siemens Gamesa in Euskadi. So I can confirm that, Mr. Becerra, President of the firm is engaged to maintain the company residence and the decision center in the Eukadin Center, and our responsibility is to continue to strengthen a park with an attractive tech-based company provider, and we'll keep that company from having fun.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u65	Mr. Lehendakari, I'm going to give you a thought. Look, foreign capital entry into a Basque company may be necessary at times, but it's never good news, it's not good news. Mrs Tapia has pointed out, more than once, the root that Siemens Gamesa is going to have with Euskadi and I say to her that capital has no root; capital has only interest, has no root, has interest. International capital has demonstrated this with the cases of General Electric, Elf Atochem, ThyssenKrupp, ArcelorMittal, or Gerdau. Capital has no root, it has only interest. And I refer to the facts. On February 15, Siemens Gamesa presented a business plan for the years 2018 to 2020, in which it plans to improve the benefit by 10% at the cost of cutting costs by EUR 2 billion. Of these EUR 2 billion, 65 % of the cut is going to be in what they euphemistically call the involvement of suppliers, which is to cut the prices to the suppliers by 20%. And I tell you, what are the consequences for Euskadi of this? What are the consequences for the 800 companies that are suppliers of Siemens Gamesa? They have to reduce their costs by 20% in two years, with similar sales, because Siemens Gamesa will not increase them, and with a margin of profitability of the Basque industry that you know is an average of 3,8 %. How are they going to do it? I'll tell him. At the expense of the templates, as always. At the expense of templates or closures. Look, the director general of Gamesa, just 15 days after the merger was formalized, said "many of us are clear about the development that this agreement will have in the future; as has happened with the acquisition of companies of the same branch, all technology will gradually have the German record. Shopping centres will move to Germany and human capital, which is the biggest asset of Gamesa, will have to move gradually to Siemens decision-making centres." Do you still think there's no need to make a public statement with this?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. President is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, but what more public statements than those we are making, appearing here in the Basque Parliament itself after the information that has been published, after a meeting that we have held between the President of Siemens AG and myself; what more public statements than those made by the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure. Look, Mr Becerra, we have talked many times about what the world market is, the global market, globalisation. We have spoken many times, yes, about concerns about what reflection or concern is about the rooting of companies with foreign capital. And what about the commitment of companies with Basque capital abroad? No, no, no, we're talking about the global market or we're not talking about the global market. We are talking about the confidence in what can be expressed in what is the decision to keep the company's roots here, which is why you asked me. Look, I know the information about possible problems with reference shareholder, and I am not going to go into issues that correspond to the internal sphere of shareholder relations and management, and I do remarque the importance of continuing to have Iberdrola, for example, which you mentioned in your first intervention, as significant shareholder, company that curiously with whose president I met this week, company that has also given evidence of your interest as reference shareholder for ensuring the anchoring of Siemens Gamesa in Euskadi. And the government is in contact and working together with the company, from the Department, from the Basque Energy Agency, from the energy cluster, we work on strategies and joint projects that enhance the company's activity in Euskadi and its tractor capacity in our economy; we work on R & D projects, technological development and innovation, industrial projects 4.0, wind generation and start-up of new startups or the company's participation in the Bind 4.0 Entrepreneurship Programme. I confirm the commitment of the President of Siemens AG to maintain the headquarters and decision-making centres here in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made to the president for the equality of women and men. About the plan and the Eucharistic Economics Economics and the Board of Society Problems." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u69	Yes, thank you, good morning. Taking into account the report of the Basque Economic and Social Council on the VII Equality Plan drawn up at the request of Emakunde, Mr Lehendakari, we would like to know what changes the Basque Government intends to make to improve the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u71	Ma'am, señora Macazaga. I believe that I have already answered this question sufficiently with the question I have asked Mrs Etxebarrieta, indicating the issues that we have addressed in the draft of the VII Equality Plan, even before the report of the Economic and Social Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, get back on autopilot. For Elkarrekin We have all the good intentions and policies that he has mentioned and again and again in each of his interventions and that have not just materialized, unfortunately, can be summed up in these two words, autopilot. After 30 years of policies of equality Basque society is another, the feminist movement has overflowed the political agenda. A new time. And you insist on the same recipe. The report of the Economic and Social Council has many proposals, the legitimacy and the indisputable solvency of the ESC to make them a bit of self-criticism. And that, as mentioned in the report, urgent processing has prevented us from having enough time to deal with the depth that the plan deserves. Because instead of having made a minimal gesture of listening and reviewing, you choose to go out quickly to throw balloons out, to go out the branches, to divert attention from the underlying problem. That if an indicative plan, that if the competences, that if the institutions, choose intervention strategies, that the budget goes apart... Why are they asking for the report? Pure paperwork. And on top of that, we listened to Mrs Landaida in response to the ESC's report, which is worrying and alarming: According to the director of Emakunde, in Euskadi all Basque institutions – over 250 municipalities, three deputies and the Basque Government – invest a total of EUR 30.8 million per year on an equal footing. This money, Mr. Urkullu, is the schinita of the schinita in the photo that my partner, Mrs. Arana, would say. The per capita investment on equal terms is 14 euros. You've heard well. EUR 14 per person living in Euskadi. Are the General Budgets of the State also good for Basque women and for equality in Euskadi? Mr Lehendakari, do you know what they also told us at UN Women and that you forgot to mention in the previous plenary session? That we demand that the items of equality be fully recognizable in their budgets, and that it is not worth the excuse of transversality. With this battery of answers, with this almost metaphysical methodological debate that offers us the loss of what should or should not contain a plan, it once again confirms its little ambition, will and commitment to equality policies. Because if you want, Mr Urkullu, a plan can include many of the aspects and commitments that the ESC proposes. And this report is one more element to reaffirm what we have already expressed on several occasions in this Parliament, and as long as the same answer remains, we too will continue to insist on our message. Because the Basque Government is going to collapse, dislocated and at the institutional level does not exercise the leadership it deserves. They lack the time to respond to the new time, to a new, advanced agenda and certainly much more ambitious than the one you are presenting us. We have a plan full of objectives and without concrete measures, but you call measures to objectives. Correcting may be wise, Mr Urkullu, but it is also necessary to do so in order to have equality policies that truly respond to the challenges posed by this new time and Basque women. And then he'll have us to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Macazaga, allow me modestly to make the point to you that it is a tonic in you that reality does not spoil your headline. Look, I'm not going to let myself be so tempted to question either the creditworthiness of certain reports, the working methodology, or the working dynamics. But I'll leave it there. In any case, I will tell you that the VII Equality Plan is in the final stage of preparation and will be adopted in a few months and that we respect and value the contributions of the Economic and Social Council made at the request of Emakunde. And the new plan provides precisely the necessary framework for the development of the measures proposed by this body. That is, at the appropriate time, the deployment of the master plan to the specific programmes of each institution, Mrs Macazaga. There should be no confusion between a master plan that sets out general priorities and strategies and an action programme that compromises specific initiatives and budgets. This is required by Act 4/2005 on Equality, Mrs Macazaga. The Equality Plan ensures that all public administrations work in the same direction and for the achievement of the same objectives and then each institution is responsible for designing its programme or programmes of action, Mrs Macazaga. It is now these programmes, in line with the recommendations of the Economic and Social Council, that reflect the specific initiatives, the people responsible and the budgets to be implemented. The objective of the Equality Plan is not to define specific actions for the Government, the deputies or the municipalities; the plan has never incorporated economic content; the plan identifies strategic objectives and priorities for the coming years. Objectives to be developed in the institutional areas from their budgets. It will be at that time that each institution will be able to incorporate the contributions of the Economic and Social Council, I repeat. And what you forget, but the Equality Plan shows, is that in Euskadi, first, equality planning is widely deployed, that all government departments, the three outlaws and 118 municipalities that bring together 83 per cent of the population have an existing equality plan. Secondly, that Euskadi invests above the environment. That the expenditure carried out on equality by the Basque administrations in 2016 was, yes, 30.8 million euros. Thirdly, that Euskadi has a stable organizational structure responsible for implementing equality programmes and that all the departments of the Government, the deputies and 109 in this case, 109 municipalities, have a unity of equality. Euskadi has shown an unparalleled collective commitment in our environment and, in fact, we rank fifth in the ranking of European countries on equal terms, and you know that very well, too, Mrs Macazaga. And this remains an institutional and social priority. You, Mrs Macazaga, criticize our policies, but paradoxically, paradoxically, this very week, comrades of your party in Valencia have come to hold working meetings with the Basque Government. Before they did it from Castilla la Mancha and the same government that for their companions is a reference to know in depth, it is for you an object of permanent criticism. Ask your classmates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH, of the law enforcement of the Society, and of the chief physician of the Autoberon, about the airport of Foronda." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u77	Yes, thank you. Mr. Erkorek, you've just mentioned the autonomy ax. And I just came here to ask you today about the number of buds that haven't had the opportunity of germinating, about the airport. Not long ago, Foronda has been remarkable, because flights are not actual, but that's not his chief problem. And the state of the Fordians is very unintelligible to us: Even though technically was an excellent airport, he doesn't have a real chance to develop. And we want to ask, what fun plan you're trying to guarantee the activity of Foronda's airport around the wire transfer on the airport.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u78	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. You plan two subjects on the same question, which are closely connected, and which have been discussed several times in this legislature, but which are essentially different, and not at all. One is the one about the possible or exploitability of the airport in Foronda. Because he has great powers, and for the present at least they are not used at all. The other one is about the transfer that can be made. They're tied up, but basically they're different or different. Well, in this legislature, it has been several times discussed, in the law which has gone, at least twice as far as I know, and it has both been accepted by EH Collect, the Jelt Party, and the Socialist Party. The Christmas plan is just about that thing, and that's how we proclaimed it, and we defended it, yes, yes, the President, and the head of the department, even as far as I can, from the legal point of view. And don't just announce, you know them, I don't know them all now, but I'm not sure of them all, but I'm just wondering if you could make up the previsionals that he's been making. The other, to mention some, suggested a recommendation of management to the Ministry a couple of years ago. This was the suggestion we proposed, and we put on the table a sketch of cooperation. And all the previsions were there, all about the PIB and all of them were there for 24 hours of open space. But we had a round negative from Madrid's government. Another proposal, too. A model of management has been placed on the table based on a certain principle, namely an airport and three terminals, three terminals for service in three neighborhoods. That didn't work out either. The Government has therefore taken a step, if it is at work, and has made all the efforts, but here it must be here that the co-workership of the central Government may be advanced. And as long as they don't give up, it's very hard to be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u81	If you agree, it's up to you to move it, that's why you're the head of the self-interest and to defend your jurisdiction. That's why we ask. I may not agree with a part of the diagnosis because I think they're both sides of the same coin. That is to say, the real technical impossibility of developing the airport has to do with the transfer not having occurred, because as you will well know, for Madrid Foronda is a Category 3 airport. Having the skills would make it possible to make other approaches to that airport. As you also know very well, when Madrid removed the H24 it did it on the basis of the only criterion, which was the number of passengers. Having competence makes it possible precisely to handle a number of higher criteria and to make assessments that not only affect passengers but also affect cargo. The fact that Foronda is also Category 3 for Aena makes Foronda not an airport certainly not interesting for handling companies I mean, there's an absolutely univocal relationship. Of course, waiting for them to work together, I think it will be short, because it enormously misses the situation or the capacity that Foronda could have for development and what would mean economic development for the territory. That is, it is essential to make certain types of approaches. At this time, the absence of ramp handling means that passenger aircraft cannot be diverted, for example, because such service cannot be provided. Even, the handing In the end there is a very large number of services that have been reduced, which in turn has resulted in loss of freighters. With this, it has a direct influence on the economics and whose origin or above all a diagnosis of this type leads us to a single solution that is the transfer, as it is contained in the Statute of Gernika. With which we have a very large opportunity cost. The fact that the transfer of airports is not taking place means that there is a real inability to develop economically, not at the airport, but for the whole territory. And we also have to be able to have the capacity for Foronda to be AP, i.e., real flight alternative, not flight plan. We have a number of questions in economic development that have a single solution, which is the transfer, that we really have the competition as it is collected. That is why I ask you again, perhaps because it is not clear to me, we know what the Madrid Government is not doing. It is, of course, a priority from our point of view, as are many other things of transfers. But what are you going to do so that we can get the airport transfer and we can do the development for Foronda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u82	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, it's yours to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. problemon, we all agree on the diagnosis. There's no need to say. The subject has been discussed several times, and all those whom you have mentioned have been brought to light, and with perfect consent. The point is, the transfer here, the transfer you mentioned, can be proposed. As you know, the airport in Foronda is declared to be of general interest. That means today's transfer for today is as impossible as a transfer. In other cases, after removing this category, the transfer has been possible and has been made. So what we can say here today is different formulas, actually, in order to discuss the Basque and Basque institutions in that management. There's a curious thing going on here, the central government's always been around disorganizing it, but it hasn't had any trouble getting it into line. That's curious, but that's how it happened. Well, we give the important point, but since there's still a lot of light in the discussion last night on the list, there's 37 transfers on the table, which we don't care, but we put them together because there's a lot more important than that, and we've really had the same pressure on the central government to put them on the table and this thing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, made by the members of the United States of the United States of the World-Espez, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz, Lopez de Munininka-Popilators of the United States, Plantion, and Housing Houses, about the project of construction to provide for Zia and Urkabustazzi." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u85	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselors, Mr. Arriola. Good morning. I ask you on behalf of the People's Group about the supply problem affecting the Zuia Valley and the Urkabustaiz City Council. There is documentation on this matter in this house, in the General Councils of Álava and in the affected municipalities themselves. It's a problem that comes from afar. They say from the place that this matter has run through tables of different administrations more than thirty years ago and that today they are still without a solution. The problem should not be easy to solve, but also, after reviewing the various literature that exists, it can be seen that the interest in the needs of the supply of the Zuia Valley and the Urkabustaiz City Council of the different competent administrations has been at least intermittent and highly conditioned by interests close to or prior to electoral periods. We are talking about water shortages for the supply of 4,000 people, mainly in the summer months. It seems that in 2006, it was the year that moved things, a proposal that satisfies the majority of those affected. It was the creation of a raft in Markina's term, and it was understood as the most suitable solution or the easiest to execute, as other dam solutions were at a very high cost. This solution is ratified in the municipal plenary of the various municipalities and where it was unanimously approved to ratify the preliminary draft of the Upper Bayas for the supply of Zuia and Urkabustaiz, prepared by the Basque Government. For example, the act of the Zuia City Council states: "The municipal corporation unanimously agrees to ratify this project, to ask the Directorate of Waters – URA had not yet been created –, ask the Directorate of Waters of the Basque Government for the utmost urgency in the processing of the said project in view of the situation of alert it suffers in the municipality of Zuia in the service of water supply in the summer time, months of June, July, August and September. And it shows to the Waters Authority the total disposition of the City Council to carry out as many actions as are precise in order to make effective the aforementioned project". Year 2006. But in 2006, as I said, more things also happen. The State General Budgets also include a budget item, agreed by the Socialist Group, the Socialist Government of Mr Zapatero and the Basque Nationalist Group, which includes a budget item of €1,500,000 for Korosparri and Zuia, which was repeated in the financial years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. A party that was never executed, a deception to the citizens, for which they never showed interest from the proposing group of this party. Also, at the same time, the Town Hall of Zuia in the same year 2006 issues its municipal newsletter for the neighbors and said: "The Basque Government is beginning to take steps towards the construction of the ferry of the Upper Bayas and the planned solution consists in the construction of a necessary supply infrastructure to guarantee at least a second supply of 19.12 liters for the municipality of Zuia and of 5.8 liters for Urkabustaiz. A four-hectare regulating raft will be built in the current Santa Marina depot in the northern area of Sarria." It seemed that everything was very concrete and so was the bulletin of the political group that ruled at the time. It is also in 2006 when the City Council of Zuia completes the amendment of the subsidiary planning rules and on which the Department of Urbanism and Environment of the Provincial Council of Álava decides to suspend the final approval of the revision of the subsidiary planning rules of Zuia, as long as the deficiency of ensuring the supply of water necessary to meet the needs of the proposed territorial model in the new rules itself, which the City Council sends to the council, was proposed to increase in five hundred houses. If there was no water before and there was a shortage, the increase in these five hundred dwellings called into question the supply of the population of these municipalities. On 24 April 2007, from the Vice-Adviser of Environment and Planning of the Territory, a document was sent to the deputy of Urbanism and Environment of the Provincial Council of Álava, which discussed the Upper Bayas project, the timetable for implementation, the project budget, 378,000 euros in 2007 and 72,000 euros for 2008, which would be in a position to bid construction works in February 2008, for which the necessary budgetary reserves were already made. The purpose of this document is to justify the necessary commitments to enable the water supply required for the present, for the proposal contained in the standards revision document, i.e., the Water Authority presents this project to ensure and to lift the suspension of the rules that the Álava Diputación de Álava made because there was no such project and the guarantee of supply for the proposal of these five hundred dwellings. Given this data, Diputación Foral de Álava considers that if the work, as the Waters Directorate of the Basque Government says, is to be completed by 2010 and will be able to supply water to the new five hundred dwellings proposed in the subsidiary rules, then the subsidiary rules were approved and the works, what has happened? Well, they've never been executed. And if it were necessary thirty years ago, and if we have increased in five hundred dwellings in 2006 the possibility of construction of those five hundred dwellings, for certainly today they are much more necessary. The population in these municipalities in the last 20 years has grown by 30%. The Socialist Government came to the Basque Government, a new project, telling us that it never came forward and did not come to compromise with a supply solution for Zuia. Mr Councilman, in 2014 this parliamentary group tabled a motion in this House, and it was adopted, in which we urged the Basque Government to urgently license the works of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz supply construction project, and we also requested that the 2015 Budgets include the necessary budget for the implementation of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz supply construction project. This was approved in this House, it is true that the Basque Nationalist group did not vote in favour of this motion, the budgets did not bring that item, we tabled an amendment to the budgets that was not accepted. In short, counselor, 2018, we are without these works that were urgent in the year 85, that the population has grown, that we continue to act and live, the inhabitants continue in that area, that is an area that is humid, but that does not collect water, with which there is no possibility of maintaining water for those summer months. And I ask you, counselor, do you have any idea what you're going to do? Are you going to make a decision to start this supply work? This 2007 government commitment, you have assumed the URA Directorate within your Department and that Directorate has, URA, as a company, has some backpacks that you have assumed, so I understand that it will be between your projects to undertake this supply work for the City Council of Zuia and Urkabustaiz. And that's what I want to know, and what deadlines it handles, how it's going to deal with making this infrastructure so necessary for this area of Álava.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u86	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, you ask me in your question whether I intend to continue to delay the implementation of the Zuia and Urkabustaiz supply construction project, as if this adviser had a special pollution with this project, as if he had been leading the Department of Environment since time immemorial; which, of course, is not the case. He has indeed recalled in his intervention several milestones in the already prolonged gestation of the project of water supply to the Alavese municipalities of Zuia and Urkabustaiz, let me in this first intervention complete the history for a better understanding of the circumstances that have surrounded this issue to the present day. Already in 1985, on the commission of the Provincial Council of Álava, the study of water resources of the Zuia and Añana gangs was commissioned, in which the possibility of establishing four closed in the Bayas river, two in its head and two in its middle course, was proposed as alternatives for exploitation. At the end of this work, no further steps were taken until it was again proposed to act in the wake of the drought of 1989-1991. Thus, the Chamber formally commissioned a study on the possibility of regulating the Bayas River, which analysed the alternatives proposed in the previous phase, with proposals for somewhat excessive infrastructure, I would say rather excessive. The forecast of a large regulatory dam in the Bayas River basin has since been included in the 1998 Ebro Basin Hydrological Plan, although no action has been taken for foreseeable reasons of high environmental and social impact, aggravated by the excessive size of the proposed dam. Meanwhile, the residential growth of very low density, which as you commented has been occurring in the environment, has brought and brought as a consequence the unwanted use of Bayas river waters for the irrigation of numerous gardens, meadows, grass, etc., reducing the reasonable increase in demand. In the months of stretch the massive extraction of water critically affects the ecological state of a river with unique values, which is part of the protected area of Gorbeia Natural Park. This led the Basque Government to monitor the situation and begin to assess more rational and sustainable alternatives to ensure a dual end, protect and improve the ecological status of the affected water body in a natural environment of great value and, at the same time, respond to urban supply needs. To this end, in March 2004 the drafting of the study of alternatives and the preliminary draft supply of Upper Bayas was supported. One year later, in December 2005, as you mentioned, the law accompanying the General Budgets of the State for the year 2006 declared the supply of Zuia-Urkabustaiz work of general interest of the State and provided it with an item of 750.000 euros, an amount absolutely insufficient to face this infrastructure. In May 2006, the then director of Waters of the Basque Government asked the municipalities of Zuia and Urkabustaiz for approval of the alternative selected in the study of alternatives and preliminary draft supply of the Upper Bayas, in order to be able to proceed to the contracting of the constructive project and of the complementary documents such as the environmental impact study. On 26 July 2006, the director of Aguas sent to the territorial office of Álava a report on the supply forecasts in the municipality of Zuia, in which he reported on the estimated deadlines for hiring the drafting of the project, the execution of the works and the implementation of the new infrastructures. Since, despite the fact that it was declared a work of general interest by the State, the Central Administration did not perform any activities during 2006, the Basque Government continues its work and in December this year sends to the management of the Gorbeia Natural Park the study of alternatives and preliminary draft supply of Alto Bayas, to issue the mandatory report, since there are possible actions inside the park. Among eight initial alternatives, of which the four most favourable ones are defined and developed, the solution selected as most convenient among all the points analyzed, both technical-environmental and economic, is a catch in the high basin of the river and a regulatory prey of moderate dimensions. This is located at a point near the supplied municipalities, specifically in the Zaro stream, outside the main channel of Bayas River, and in addition to the dam, the project includes the capture of the actions, the drinking water treatment station and the conduction of the supply at high. In the light of the information provided, the management of the Gorbeia Natural Park concludes, showing the conformity to the site of the chosen ferry, because it seems that it is the best among all the studied and the one that the least environmental impact generates, understands that the actions would be permissible according to the current regulations of the natural park, but says, logically, that the constructive project must be subjected to environmental impact assessment in the terms established by the current legislation. Moreover, this final constructive project should be submitted to the body responsible for the management of the park, so that the park could be approved before the construction began. As a result, on 29 December 2006, the Basque Government launched the drafting of the construction project for the supply of Upper Bayas, a contract signed on 23 July 2007. At the same time, on 24 January 2007, the water director sent a letter to the municipalities of Zuia and Urkabustaiz urging them to request that the water catchment be granted to the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. And on 24 April of the same year, the then Deputy Councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory informs the deputy fora of Urbanism and Environment of Álava of the procedures to contract the drafting of the project and the estimate that the bidding of the construction works could take place in February 2008. However, the construction contract was temporarily suspended and the deadline extended in April 2008 due to difficulties in locating such a regulatory infrastructure in such a sensitive natural environment. In the first months of URA, in April 2008, the Deputy Environmental Adviser presented the initial document of the study of alternatives and the preliminary draft supply of Alto Bayas for environmental assessment. Upon completion of the consultation period, and once the responses received have been analyzed, the Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Control then forwards the preliminary report on the content, scope and level of detail of the study to URA, requesting additional data. In April 2010, work was resumed on the preparation of the construction project for the supply of the Upper Bayas, which was completed in October of that year, and, in parallel, in August, the public information requested by the Basque Government on the granting of precise water use was presented in the Official Gazette of Álava. Finally, September 2011 calls for the recruitment of the study of alternatives for the extension of the Upper Bayas supply project in order to meet the requirements of the environmental body set out in the individual environmental impact assessment procedure. In December 2011, Actisa began its work. And from this date, the project enters a phase of freezing; a phase of freezing that is a consequence of reasons of public knowledge. As a result of the economic crisis, all non-urgent investments are paralysed and many of them are slowed down. In this case we are talking about a work that, in order to improve the coverage of the supply needs of almost 4,000 inhabitants of both municipalities, has a very high cost. The last estimated cost is EUR 18 million. In this account I have described the causes of the delay in undertaking this project, which is technically completed, although logically it will have to be reviewed again before its approval. And I also have to tell you that the pending administrative and environmental procedures were not closed to prevent that, since there would be no budgetary possibilities to start the works, the declaration of environmental impact lapses at two years, forcing the process to repeat. In response to your question, the answer is that this Government has neither intended nor intended to delay the implementation of this infrastructure. On the contrary, our determination is to address it as far as possible, taking into account, among other factors, the availability of economic resources, the entity of the problem to be solved and the cost-benefit balance in social, economic and environmental terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u89	Yes, Mr. Counselor. I do not tell you that you are responsible for what the situation is, but you have assumed this department, as I told you before, with all the outstanding execution charges. Therefore, the choice that you have made I think will have been free and you are to whom I have to ask, because you have assumed the department in these conditions and with these coves that are added. I'm so sorry. I told him to delay because I look, this debate, as I said before, has been aroused in this House but also in the General Councils of Álava. And the Attorney General of Álava of the Socialist Group in 2014 said: "To say that the project is currently being drafted, that it will come out next week, that in very short time the public information will come out, the funding can also be said that it is in charge of URA and that in 2015 there are 8 million euros and will end in 2020 with 10 million euros. There's a project and it's plotted. It is an agreement of the Basque Government through URA." And as a prosecutor at Socialist Group Councils said, so I say to you whether you, who should have a very accurate knowledge of evolution and when it was to be completed, are delaying the work. I don't know. Talk to your prosecutors about it. This prosecutor was in his time councillor of Zuia City Hall and I think he will be attending to some... this story will not have been invented. That's why I was telling him about delaying something that seemed like he was in a position to be executed in 2015. Look, as I was saying, we are talking about a wet area, an area where abundant water passes through but which lacks storage infrastructure for that water and in parallel we have a supply problem, as the neighbors of Zuia and Urkabustaiz told him. The Basque Government committed itself in writing in 2007 to solving this problem and you say to me, "Don't hold me responsible." He is responsible for the government. I don't care who owns the department. It's a non-compliance that's been crawling for thirty years and you've also reported it. It is therefore a further breach of the many that the Basque Government has accumulated in the area of hydraulic infrastructure. In the previous legislature we unblocked all the sanitation in Urdaibai that had been thirty years or more too late. It is therefore a habit of this Government to delay these works. Why? Because there is no decided budget bet to tackle them and they are accumulating, and the economic ball is becoming wider and more difficult to deal with. I would like to say to you that in the Committee on Follow-up to the Framework Agreement on Water Infrastructure of 3 February the Socialist Group stated that the works of the reservoir were to begin precisely because there was a budgetary allocation. This in 2011 in Mr. Lopez's government, which had a project done, which had a study, which was a necessary and priority work and said it was going to end in 2012. It's just that I really do. It is that you who also ruled also failed and promised things that seem to be not in a position to deal with. So, when you say "you reproach me that if I'm going to keep delaying," of course they're delaying. It was delayed in his day. Why? Because they make ads that aren't backed up. They make announcements to please the citizen, because they are not backed up with enough documentation and enough data to be able to deal with. And here some have been selling, let's start the works in 2008, then in 2012, then tell us that in 2015 and now I ask you, counselor, when are you going to start these works? On what date do you think all documentation, both technical and budgetary documentation, will be available to deal with this work? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u91	Mrs López de Ocariz, you know as well as I do that the works to ensure the supply to the population, like sanitation, is not a URA competition. URA acts as an aid to the competent bodies, which are the municipalities, consortia, etc. Just for the sake of it, just for the sake of it. But what I do have to say is that URA has a commitment and that that commitment will be fulfilled, we will fulfil it. In my first speech, I told him that we wanted to do it and now I'm ratifying it. In fact, with the same aim, to protect the masses of the environment and improve the management of the urban water cycle, the Basque Government, through URA, has recently completed the construction of the wastewater treatment plant and the Zuia collector network, very recently, with a budget that far exceeded 7 million euros. Therefore there is will, and logically we will advance in the fulfillment of this goal, but I thought I knew it. But, you know that on July 11, last year, the Department, URA and the Foral Depuration of Álava, we signed the framework agreement for the financing and execution of hydraulic infrastructures in the historical territory of Álava. An agreement that updated and expanded commitments envisaged in the previous year, more realistically and in line with predictable economic resources. But you tell me, you have many agreements and you do not comply. Indeed, I am heir to all that, but as far as possible I will try to rationalise, on the basis of management and economic capacity, the development of the objectives, reaching agreements with the parliaments, with the consortia, with whomever it takes, so that we do not generate expectations that are not met and so that we can, on the basis of truly predictable budgetary capacities, order on the basis of priorities, which is investment in hydraulics. And that, well, I thought I knew, I repeat, but this agreement includes the supply of Upper Bayas. And it is expected to hit a temporal horizon and that horizon is the horizon that goes between 2021 and 2027. Here it is, is that, ma'am, you ask me things that are already approved and that are picked up a few months ago in a framework agreement with the Foral Chamber of Álava. What do you want me to say? What do you want me to answer? I answer what's there, I can't make things up. I'm telling you the reality. This is what is signed and what is written and, within the framework of this commitment, depending on the priorities and budgetary circumstances, have the certainty that these supply works of Zuia and Urkabustaiz will be addressed as soon as possible. By the way, I told you last Wednesday in the committee, you have had the opportunity to negotiate with the government the approval of the 2017 and 2018 budgets. And on the basis of that negotiation they have prioritized and introduced amendments that have entailed increases in spending. The implementation of this infrastructure will not be such a priority for you when you have not allocated a single euro, and can do so, to finance these works. It is clear that one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat and here is when you see, really, where the interest is, where the will is, where the vocation is for things to happen. Of course, this is a situation that comes from history, a long history, since the year 85, which I have broken down and the reality that we have is this, and there is a horizon, in which the commitments of the Government can actually be realized on the basis of the revision that has been made of those commitments with the Foral de Álava Diputación, and here there is a framework agreement that we signed by the Diputación, which is signed by the Government and which is signed by URA, and which sets out, as a matter of priority, the actions that must be undertaken in the first place, on the horizon. 2016-2021, and which ones are affected in 2021-2027. And indeed, this action is planned in 2021-2027, and on that horizon of action, prioritizing how the work is prioritized, and based on budgetary capacities, we will carry it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interra, Juana de Bengoechea Strasca, member of the Popula team, made to the head of the Board of Education, to go to college about the results of the Spanish and literary studies." Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Well, good morning to all present. Let's see. I want to start this inquiry to the Counsellor starting with positive data, because it is going to be an inquiry of a lot of data, data she surely knows, but let's start with the positives to avoid that reproach that we only look at the bad data. And I'm going to refer to the data that is derived from the results of the university entrance tests. And the source is a study of the Galician council, which comes very well to us, because it makes a comparison with all the Spanish autonomy. Let's see, what's good. The results in Mathematics; for look, in Mathematics we go well, the average is 15.39 and we are with 15.92 is not bad. In Physics the average is 11.1 and we have a 14.35, okay. Chemistry, the average is a 10.13 and we have a 15.67; it's also fine. Biology, the average is a 13.22 – here we start to fail – we have a 12.91. In Spanish History, the average is 13.88 and we're down again, 13.83. But what is already, what is already truly alarming, and that no one tells me that I have not started to recognize things that are not wrong, what is truly alarming is that in Spanish Literature and Language the average is 8.91; the autonomy that gets a better grade is 32.09, and do you know how much the Basque Community gets? a 4.99, a 4.99. And let's see, this is alarming because we're talking about Castellana Language and Literature. On the other hand, there is a fact that is good, for now, that is the results we get in the same subject in Basque. We're getting good results, but with one concern, and it's that little by little we're going down. And this is the problem we face today. And we're still going to go to global data. We've analyzed by subjects, we're going to global data. The average score in the Basque Country of selectivity was 6.03, below the state average, which was 6.45. We're 15 points down. The percentage of Basque students who passed was 76.25 – I'm talking about Castellana Language and Literature – i.e., just over three quarters, but it's that the state average is 82.20; we're going to be pretty low again. And they do not think it is a problem to have two co-official languages, because, for example, Catalonia, also with co-official language, because the average, the note they took was 83.8, above the state average. So this is the problem we are facing, counselor, and that is why I am asking you today. What will your department do to correct these results? Because the problem we have with these results is the trend. Look, I'd settle for the 2018 results to be better than 2017, because after all a fixed photo is not descriptive, it's descriptive of that historical moment, but it doesn't tell us about a development. Me, it's just that I'd settle for them to be superior. But if we go down, that's what's really troubling. I know that you are going to tell me that in the end we have more generally approved of the test of selectivity, not of Language and Literature, than other communities. Well, maybe. But if it's based on medianias, if it's based on getting medianias, because I don't know if I'm complying, because that's a note that's going to apply to college studies. So, you always say that seeking excellence is one of the principles governing your counseling. So, if we are talking about that we approve, yes, but we approved with lower than average grades, much lower in the case of Spanish Language and Literature, because I do not conform, and I think that no representative of the Basques should be formed, knowing also the economic effort that we are making. But figure out, if mediocrity is mediocrity, let's call it mediocrity, I think it's more graphic, if mediocrity is widespread, that we have the highest percentage of backward students, 4%, and we have the lowest percentage of excellent students, another 4%. In Galicia, who are like us or worse, they have 10% of excellent students, we only have 4%. Therefore, counselor, I will read you the question I am asking you: what are the aims of the Department of Education in relation to educational policies to improve the learning of Castellana Language and Literature in the Basque educational system? Because I remind you, 15 points below average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u95	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Bengoche, it's the official statistics that measures the number of students who present and transcend the high school of high school on justification. In the same way, it provides information about the grades which students make in their lessons. At this point, it must be reminded that students presenting themselves with the title of the Batxiers to go to college are studying the general lessons in the block of the second-class training trunk, and at least that they may be able to study the two arbitrary lessons in the block of secondary lessons. 2017. In order to maintain the probability of access to the early years of access in the year's test, it is generally referred to the general phase of this statistical operation and specific phase respectively. Every year there are two regular and unusual calls. Moreover, students with the title of high-class professional education, the title of high-class art technicians, or the title of high-class sports technicians, and students from foreign language, can do these tests. The access test for over 25 years is also structured in two phases, one general and the other specific. But in this case both are necessary. The only time in the year is a call, the UNED allows 25 years to go to college by a 25-year-old to go in. There, in the usual and unusual call, you have to take exams. There are only one phase of access to 45 years old and two exercises, then a personal conversation. There's only one call in the year. According to the study of labour or labor, the access they have to go to college is made in particular teachings offered by the university. In this sense, last 2017 in Euskadi, 12,948 students were enrolled in the university access tests within the various modalities referred to, of which 11,120 were enrolled in the ordinary call, which is the one you have taken as the reference for this inquiry. Of these, 12,649 were tested, 97.69 per cent of the total and 12,122 students exceeded, i.e. 95.83 per cent, the best figure for all autonomous communities and almost 9 points above the state average, 87 per cent. These data are also the best in the most numerous call, which is that of the group of bachelor's degrees in the ordinary call, being even above the previously provided data and reaching 97.85 %, again the best data at state level. This means that, out of every 100 students from Bachiller presented at the regular call, approximately 98 approves the test and only 2 are suspended. In the State, on average, it is suspended by about 8 students. It is important to contextualize this data in order to transfer an objective and objective reality, which is that our students in their last stage of education, in a global and comprehensive way, achieve better results than in other autonomous communities in order to face their future challenges, in this case, the university stage. Mrs Bengoechea, you focus on the results obtained in one of the subjects of the general phase. As I explained at the beginning of my speech, the test consists of a general and a specific phase, but you focus only on the subject of Castellana Language and Literature, in many cases, are not comparable many of the subjects you have compared in the different information you have been quoting. At this point, I must say that the condition of our community must be seen from an integral perspective, that is, as a bilingual community, with an educational system that from our bilingualism aspires to achieve sufficient development of multilingual linguistic competence in students. Therefore, from this Government, and as reflected in our Government programme, we believe that it is possible and compatible to continue to strengthen the use and knowledge of Basque and Spanish at school, with the progressive evolution of a multilingual education system, basically trilingual, with Basque as the central axis, which incorporates significant improvements and advances in English-language training. For this reason, all initiatives to improve pupils' competence in language communication are carried out from an integrated and comprehensive approach to the treatment of languages, to take advantage of and make the transfer of what they have learned in one language to learn in the other. As referred to in Decree 236/2015 of 22 December 2015 establishing the basic education curriculum and implementing it in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the integrated treatment of languages is a methodological strategy that pays particular attention to the transfer of learning in different languages, with the aim of developing multilingual communicative competence. It is a question of working each of the languages that is its own and sharing among all that they have in common, always in the service that the student can use the language that each situation requires in an appropriate and effective way. In the integral treatment of language, all teachers, whether they are language or not, should be able to develop the competition for communication. To this end, particular expressions of knowledge are useful, and all the states and experiences of every language. In both official languages, and at least in a foreign country, by an integrated and integrated curriculum of languages, the following principles will be fulfilled: Teaching language must be an inclusion, i.e. all students must be able to achieve it, whatever their mother's language, in order to develop it as a whole. The teaching of languages must be a fundamental use, for languages are learned by social and academic use, and the pragmatic necessities of communication tend and make it easier to grasp the code. The most reasonable part is to integrate language and content into the line of that principle. Teaching languages must be communication, that is to say, personal, social, and academic situations of each language must be chosen, and become a privileged class-room communication site, the efficiency of the students to participate in all the activities of communication, and teaching languages must be essentially a good attitude towards languages and talking people, considering how important languages are in the emotional development of social and individualities. Based on this principle reflected in the successive curricular decrees of the community since LOGSE, all initiatives of a formative nature promoted from the department are carried out under the umbrella of this approach, so most of them are proposals that cover the teaching and learning of the two official languages in an indistinct way and to a lesser extent of the foreign language, than because they have objectives of a different level than the two official languages. In this sense, and using their own arguments, the results and the vision of the three languages of the test, that is, the Spanish language and literature, the co-official language in the autonomous communities that comes from and the foreign language, should be completed and evaluated, in this case we speak English. Objectively and based on his own reference report, we are the autonomous community that gets the best grade of those who have co-official language, with a point above the state average: rating of 7.66 versus 6.46 on average. Objectively, we are the autonomous community that gets the best grade of all the autonomous communities in the foreign language subject – in English – almost one point above the state average: rating 7.44 compared to the 6.61 average and with the lowest percentage of suspensions, 9.51 % compared to 23% of the state average. One issue, Mrs Bengoechea, is that of competition and training in English which your party has repeatedly brought to this House and which we know is of concern to you. Finally, it is important to remember that the scores and differences you are talking about in relation to the competition of Castellana Language and Literature are minimal in most cases and therefore not very relevant. Thus, out of the 17 communities 12 of them, including ours, are in a fork ranging from 6 points to 6.5 points. These are objective data that defend the adequacy of our policies and the approach of integrated and comprehensive treatment of languages, without prejudice to the specific measures for improving the learning of the Spanish language that I will comment on in my second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u97	Well, Commissioner, believe me that I am looking forward to hearing your second speech, for one reason, because what you have come to say in your first speech is that there is no problem, that everything is phenomenal, that there is no reason to alarm us for nothing. I have been the first one who, at the beginning of this speech, wanted to highlight those things in which we are really doing well, we are doing well, because it seems to me to be justice. But what we're talking about here is Spanish language and literature. We are not talking about euskera, which I know we have taken good note, as you have said. And then, you've come to say something like that, well, that with methodology you don't seek excellence either, but you can transfer knowledge from one to another, etc. Look, anyone who knows anything about Basque knows that a language not only orders communication, it also orders the production of ideas. That's why the Basque is so different from the Spanish. Because speaking Basque and speaking in Spanish is not only spoken, it is thought differently. That's what makes it particularly more complicated that transfer. So, know so well the Basque and how we think about Basque, it's no la jarri behar dugun galdegaia eta no la jartzen dugun ordera bear inportantea da, eta nola markatzen dugun subjektua trantsitiboa denean aditza eta trantsitiboa ez denean, that shows how we think, the importance. And the same thing happens in the Spanish language. So, having enough wealth to have a greater plasticity than communities that have only one language, what we cannot say is that we simply learn one language to transfer knowledge to another. No, we have to learn the languages well, because they expand our ability to elaborate thought, to elaborate thought. And you seem to find no problem that we are 15 points below the average, when I already tell you that it is not so much a problem of co-officiality, because Catalan children are quite above the average in Castellana Language and Literature, which is what we are talking about. And it does seem like a problem to us. And let's talk about literature. Look, many of us learned to love euskera by reading the Basque lyric of the 18th century, Atarratzeko jauna, Ursuaren kanta And literature also serves to love the tongue. Then, it serves not only to love the tongue, but to be aware of a future of that group that has spoken it throughout history. I would not understand equally in Basque what it has been to become if I did not know the song of the prison of Pau, this poor 1815.a nor Ahazparnen prison hartu nindutena So many stories that help us to get into what is our own community and being us also a Spanish speaking community I ask you, please, – because I think it is already a thing to beg in you, because of course you stand up and there is no way to reach an agreement with you – then, please, I ask you to open to us those worlds that open up the different languages and the different literatures, because all that is well-being and satisfaction for our spirits. Please, let's make an effort. 15 points below average. We don't console ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u99	Mrs Bengoechea, I think it is not a matter of consolation or not consolation. Let's see, I can agree with you, that of course we have to improve the competition in Language and Literature. All I have said to you is that in this autonomous community, having two co-official languages and a very serious bet for a third foreign language that is basically English, we have a procedure in which we make an integrated and integral treatment in the languages. And in that, what I'm not saying is that I'm transferring things from one language to another, but simply using learning in all three languages, we're moving forward in the rest of the skills as well. That is to say, using one and the other what we do is to learn the three languages, but in turn learning the rest, improving the rest of the skills, that is, they are not watertight compartments. I mean, I don't know if you wanted to understand me or you didn't want to understand me. You have focused on Language because, okay, see that there is a data that is really wrong. And okay, we know it's one of the data we need to improve, but what can't be released here is a lot of data, which, depending on where they're taken, can be given one interpretation and another, and then we can say that we're really wrong. You, for example, surprised me. Data on the subject of History of Spain. Well, we're above the Spanish average. Yes, ma'am. Look at it on the official boards that you've taken out yourself. We are above the Spanish official average and we have a lower percentage of suspense than the Spanish official average and we are above Galicia. That's why I'm missing the data you've taken. I'm telling you it's exactly from the official statistic that you've pulled me out of. I haven't gotten it anywhere. I didn't make it up. The official statistics you've taken out. I mean, I also told him we're fine in English... I mean, we have a lot of subjects and we have a percentage of approved And people get to college and keep studying. I mean, we're aware that there's take steps to improve and we do not want to conform to mediocrity. And that's why we keep working. But what we can't say either is according to what statistics I like to use one or the other. I mean, no. I think, a bit of a consequence to me, too, I'd like us to have it. And when I tell you that we are taking action, the first of them I have already explained with intensity in the first intervention, that is, we start from the fact that we have two decrees in 2015 approved at the end of the year, in which we establish the curriculum of Basic Education and Children's Education, in which the integral and integrated treatment of languages is introduced. That is, how we move forward from the learning of all languages in a multilingual system, and then how we move forward in the acquisition of all competences. Besides these, too. And we also have other initiatives, in this sense initiatives such as the call of Eleaniztasunerantz, which during the last four years has been the spearhead of one of the strategic lines of the Department, which contemplates the realization of the linguistic project of the center, as a document that allows to bring together and give coherence to all the decisions of the center in relation to the organization and learning of the languages. To participate in the call of Eleaniztasunerantz and to develop the linguistic project of the center involves de facto taking measures to improve the learning of Castellana Language. Similarly, the training offered in all courses under the Prest Gara programme offers a series of courses and themes in relation to the teaching and learning of languages addressed to teachers in general, regardless of whether the language in which they are offered is Basque, Spanish and always from the perspective of the comprehensive and integrated treatment of languages. In addition, as part of the training provision of support services, the comprehensive training initiative has been launched throughout this course, which develops a training plan in centres which includes the development of five training modules. Two of them, reading comprehension, linked to the development of basic cross-cutting competence, competence in verbal, non-verbal and digital communication, and the integrated treatment of languages, linked to the development of basic disciplinary competence, linguistic and literary competence, which are directly related to the improvement of competence the linguistics of pupils and are addressed to language teachers from the perspective of the integral and integrated treatment of languages. Also, Berritzeguns develop seminars and training proposals in centres linked to various aspects of language teaching and learning. Finally, we can also mention in relation to initiatives related to teacher training, the days for language teachers, in which innovations are presented, experiences and good practices of centres are made known and workshops are organized on specific aspects of language teaching. In this case, we can set the Getxolinguae Day as an example, which this year will reach the eighteenth edition and which brings together nearly 300 people each year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Queer, Borja Sémper Pascal, a member of the Popula team made to the head of Education on the campus of the U.V.U. Lepus of Xabier Rey Umeneta and the prisoner." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor, I left on. ETA prisoner Xabier Rey took his life last March. He was detained at the Puerto III prison in Cadiz, and had been sentenced to 26 years'imprisonment for band-to-arms possession and possession of explosives and weapons. His intention, before being arrested, was to attack municipal and outlaw police officers in the Navarra Foral Community, as well as conflicting and approved information in court, UPN councillors, the Navarra Socialist Party as well, and some civilian guard. The case is that, fortunately, he was arrested before he could commit those murders. After his murder, forgiveness, after his suicide, at the UPV, specifically at the faculty, this tribute was celebrated at the school of Magisterium. This tribute by students, by dozens of students probably many of them future teachers – because it was at the school of Magisterium – in which, with speakers, with all the paraphernalia necessary to make a tribute as God commands, as I say, this person was honored, "Xabier King, Agur eta Ohore". The question we want to ask you, counselor, is, from then until now, what your actions have been so that a public space, such as that of the UPV, will not again welcome, do not re-host tributes to ETA prisoners, whether they are alive or dead, either because they return from prison or because they have committed suicide. We'd like to know what your actions have been to prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u103	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok. Mr. Semper, you are referring to a fact that occurred at the Leioa Campus of the University of the Basque Country-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. As a starting point, I would like to remind you that as far as universities, and particularly UPV-EHU, are concerned, it has recognised an autonomy of action that limits the ability of the administration to carry out concrete actions, and more specifically by the Basque Government. In his States, as is properly received in the first article, the University of the Basque Country is an institution of the public law, which is in the service of society, an autonomy organization, with legal personality and powers, and an hereditary patrimony. On the other hand, he answers to the wants of the euscal society, and to those brought by history and by social change, political and culture. He will also extend to society the knowledge of the universal culture and culture of culture, and he will especially encourage them to the eucalyptic and euphora. In the same way he will carry on his daily tasks according to economics, to social conditions, and to the patience of environment. And so, based on his high position and his autonomy in the university society, and on his respect for this member of the legislature, I asked the high manager of the Basque Country to give me information about your question, and I'll report them later on. Any act of any nature to be held at the University of the Basque Country requires the granting of a permit, in particular in the case of tributes to prisoners, the UPV-EHU always denies this permit after the application of the regulations in force. In addition, the promoters of these acts are aware of this way of acting on the part of the University and therefore usually do not apply for such permission. Obviously, failure to apply for permission does not prevent individuals from deciding to organize acts unilaterally and, as it were, clandestinely. It is also true that it is not possible to prevent the organization of all the events that can take place at any time and anywhere in the university in which very few people participate, such as the case that you quote, attended by less than twenty people, as we have been transferred, and whose call is promoted through social networks, whose control is not within the reach of the University itself. Thus, the University's senior management understands that it is doing its utmost to prevent such acts, both in terms of regulation and in terms of personal means.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u105	Well, counselor, if you've been told 20 people attended, you've been deceived. He's been fooled by the rector, or he's been fooled by whoever's responsible for that lie. Here, I haven't been either, but tell me know, see a picture, eyes have and some... But here there are more than twenty people. I would dare say that there are many, more than fifty, one hundred people. In any case, regardless of whether it is 20, 35 or 150, what is a reality is that, and taking into account the autonomy of the University, but it does not cease to be a public space, it does not cease to be an institution that has budgets, that when they come they are approved in this Parliament; it does not cease to be the place where we are training those who in the future are going to lead this country and who, in this particular case, are going to teach our children or are going to be responsible for their education through their formation in the Magisterium. It's a scandal. It would have seemed to us a scandal that an ultra-rightist group would have placed the chicken at the University of the Basque Country and we would have all come out and you sure as hell the first scandalized one. It would have seemed to us a scandal that there would have been an organization that defended assaults on women, that would have used UPV to justify, because the man is superior to the woman, that he is beaten and abused. What cannot be is that it is not a scandal, for you, and that you do not worry that the public space, in this case, the University, will be used for this. Call the rector, pick up the phone. Call him and tell him to put all the means at his disposal so that this does not happen again; first, because it is an indignity and an immorality; second, because this Parliament has recently pronounced itself against this type of acts and tributes; and third, because the University cannot be a place where instead of teaching values of coexistence, of understanding, it pays tribute to the children and parents of death and murder which is what it represents and what it has represented ETA.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u107	Mr. Semper. I have not said that I am not concerned, but quite the opposite; I am concerned and I am in constant contact with the rector. I'm not going to tell you that I talk every day, but once a week I talk and, of course, we talk. And as I have told you, within their university autonomy, they make all the efforts that are in their hands so that these kinds of actions do not occur. And of course, both for our part, the positioning is very clear, it has been said many times, in relation to this type of acts, that is, we have an absolute condemnation of this type of acts. In the case of the University too. Another issue is that, as the case may be, there are cases that make us uncontrollable, I say to them, and I do not say that it cannot happen to us, because all day long we see it, but, of course, our position, that of this Government and that of the University is clear in the face of such acts. I told you at first, and I repeat it, that is, these kinds of actions are refused, that is, they are refused...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Intradiction, written together by Juan Luis Uranus Serranus to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the condition of primary attention in the Osade." Mr. Uria is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u109	Egun on guztioi, Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. The truth, Mr. Health Advisor, when I saw you come in, you gave me a earring, because I say, if the counselor does not arrive, for I do not speak either, and it is, but I have seen him, because without you I am nothing. We will address very briefly, because we will have time in the next motion that will give rise to this inquiry, the situation of primary care in Osakidetza, some brushstrokes, and some brushstrokes, because the Department of Health has finally drawn up an important document that is called "Strategic Basic Document for Primary Care in Euskadi". We were expecting it eight years ago, but, well, it's out. Today, in one of the 320 health centres in Osakidetza, there are arrests of family doctors. Yesterday was the world day of primary care; primary care is the essential element of health systems. A health system, whatever this is, with strong primary care, means better health outcomes in the population, means more efficiency, means more equity, more justice, means better accessibility and means better sustainability for the whole health system. It matters. Talking about autonomy, talking about self-government, deepening our skills, managing our resources is doing Basque politics, it's also talking about primary health care and how we improve it among all. The former advisor, Gabriel Inclán, eight years of management, barely did anything in this field. Former advisor Rafael Bengoa, barely three and a half years in management, did little in this field. In your previous legislature you did very little in this field, Mr. Counsellor, and have taken this document out, because very timely, late, but it is in line with the fact that a lot of autonomous communities, institutes, scientific communities, trade unions and collectives are giving the importance that primary health care needs in health systems to modify hegemony. We're talking until the family doctor has the ability to guide the patient to the best-working specialist; we're talking about the family doctor as an agent of the health system. Change of hegemony. Well, he's got the base document, which is a base document that's not closed, it's open, so we take it. We want nothing more than to congratulate you, but there is discomfort in primary care and that the Basque population, more than 80%, is satisfied with what works best in the Basque Health System, Osakidetza, which is primary care. Also, about 300 professionals from the network of primary care services have produced a document last November entitled "Document of reflection and proposals for the strengthening of primary care in Euskadi", "Lehen Arreta Arnasberritzen", euskeraz. The General Directorate of Osasunbidea in Navarre has produced a document containing several strategic lines to strengthen primary care throughout the Navarra service network. And several institutes, I insist on the subject, have produced documents on the subject, including the Andalusian School of Public Health, which is a reference for research and the formation of cadres. The document drawn up by the Department of Health is seven strategic lines and more than 31 areas of intervention. It's a very complete document. The problem is that there is little data, there is little data. How many family doctors are there? 1,385. How many TISs, average individual cards? 1,450 per professional. How many family doctors in the CAP, in the points of continuous care? 200. And how many TIS averages per nurse in rural and urban areas, in pediatrics and in adults. No more data. Few data in the document. A matter that weakens him. Few dates in the document. I believe that none, because behind the formation of the Advisory Council for Primary Care, in process, in process, being done, hardly any. And there's no budget. These are weaknesses of what can be a good discussion document in the hands of social agents, in the hands of citizen agents, in the hands of professional groups, in the hands of our doctors and nursing professionals. Today, family doctors, with this document in hand, talk about the overload of work, talk about the tiredness of work, talk about the demotivation at work and talk about aging, a serious matter, which the councillor knows, as the councillor of La Rioja, Navarra, Cantabria or Extremadura, who recently intervened in the Congress of Deputies. There are a number of issues that we are concerned about, and apparently they are not addressed with the importance that we see in this basic document, which we will have the opportunity to speak today and to speak in the coming days. One is the issue of management autonomy that professionals of primary care claim, including economic autonomy of health centres. Others concern the size of the staff and their own management. Are existing professionals adequate and sufficient today in the network even for the management of replacements, holidays, congresses, absences from leave, etc.? Does the new 2018 public employment offer include retirement replacement places in nursing, family medicine and pediatrics professionals? Are policies of incentives to work in primary care the right ones? It's just that there's no pediatrician going to primary, how it's going to go from 2 to 8, if they're 8 to 3 in the hospital. What incentive policy does Osakidetza have? Personnel management is not the same as people management. Topics such as improving accessibility and longitudinality are characteristic of primary care, which gives it strength, which gives it personality, are specific plans contemplated in the basic document? Issues related to the autonomy, organization and definition of the activity of the primary care team are addressed, such as the encouragement of the training of work teams, the de-bureaucratization of care processes, which is addressed; home work and its empowerment, which is addressed; the participation of palliative care plans and at the end of home life, which are addressed in half; the promotion of home and quality care; pre- and post-graduate teaching to research, etc., etc. Community orientation of activities in health centres, activities related to health promotion in accordance with the Ottawa Charter, the International Health Promotion Congress, which raised the urgency, reorientation of health services towards health promotion. Adequate funding, there is no information on the subject of the functions they have or will be assigned to primary health care, to our health centres. We are talking about a context of sustainability of the system. 15% more or less of Osakidetza's total budget is not enough in our opinion. It already sets out the basic document for discussing and introducing analytical accounting into the processes of analysis of our accounts in health centres, which the OSI – the integrated health organizations – have masked. It appears that expenditure on investments, staffing adjustments and current expenditure is decreasing by both a percentage point. Would 25 % of the total budget of an OSI according to its size be adequate? Quality is never an accident, it is always the result of an intelligence effort of the teams that have the political responsibility to manage resources. It takes leadership like a good trainer, quality rowers. Only a credible mission, coherent management, also in micromanagement, can mobilize unmotivated personnel. It is micromanagement, how things are done day by day and how relationships between professionals and patients are established. Another concern is to address seriously the inappropriate use of health structures. We waste resources with excessive surgical interventions, with hospital emergency services that care for people with low complexity, with inadequate income in intensive units, more than it seems, with episodes at the end of life that are excessively technological, with potentially preventable hospitalizations and with an exaggerated use also sometimes of the consumption of primary care services. But, on the other hand, we need resources to deploy vital community resources for the care, fragility and chronicity of many of our patients, and to make truly effective treatments. We therefore have a fundamental task in the context of the debate proposed to us by the Department of Health, which is to eliminate the three Bs – and with this I finish – the conditioning of primary care: banality, bureaucracy and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u110	Eskerrik asko. Bukatu zaizu denbora. It's the same time for everyone. Bukatu zaizu. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u111	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, yellow uria. It's first-class attention. The health department and the Osarides have worked for years in order to promote primary attention. Thanks to the firm wager of the last decades, and the commitment and labor of professionals, we now have a good example of the first degree of attention in the Euskadin. We are masters of a model that is well rated and well protected by the Basque people. Mr. Uria, I could have given you a little bit of time because I see you're passionate about the subject. But I share with you the passion for primary care. I would like to point out that neither yesterday nor today has there been any unemployment in any primary care centre. What has happened has been 15 minutes of regular working hours that have not affected more than a third of the total number of health centres and clinics in Osakidetza and that were organized at the level of the State as a whole. As you are well aware, in the 35 years of Osakidetza's history primary care has played a key role in the Basque health system and has made a vital contribution to providing all people living in Basque with quality health care. We are fully aware of this and it is fair to highlight and publicly acknowledge the work carried out in general by the Osakidetza team of professionals and in particular by the professionals working in primary care. In Euskadi we can say that we have always had a model of primary care valued and supported by Basque society, as well as the model of community mental health. A primary care model whose strengths lie in enormous accessibility, we have 134 health centres and 151 offices spread over the three territories, so we can proudly state that all people living in Euskadi have a primary care centre nearby. Qualified professionals specialists in the global health of people, able to directly solve most of their health problems. In addition, it is very important to note that in primary care the problem and work is not only of family doctors or pediatricians, we have nurses and nurses, we have midwives and we have other support staff, all of them essential. Second important point for us, which you have reflected, is the continuity of care offered by primary care teams throughout people's lives. They are the reference health professionals from birth to the end of life, and the only ones who can care for people in addition to home emergency services, an aspect that with our population pyramid will be increasingly important. And of course, universality. Primary care is the level where universality manifests itself in all its extent. In my opinion, therefore, we have a good model that has allowed us to guide our health system towards achieving good results, in an equitable and sustainable manner. We are also aware of the changes in our society and the speed at which they take place. We know, therefore, that we must continue to bet on continuous improvement and work to adapt the health model – in this case the primary care model – to the new sociological and epidemiological challenges in which Basque society is immersed. And primary care and the needs of people at the community level have changed. And they have changed since the World Health Organization conference in Alma-Ata in 1978 and the subsequent reform that our health system made of it. That is why we have been working for several months on a specific strategy that will allow us to strengthen primary care in the current scenario and face the specific circumstances and new challenges that are facing us; firstly, for the ageing of the population and the increase in chronic diseases and dependence – I am not going to prolong it –; secondly, because the current Osakidetza organization is under the prism of integrated care – for people health services are a continuum, a service in which all levels of care must be perfectly interrelated and coordinated and our relationship with the social sphere is also fundamental. And thirdly, for the important generational replacement of professionals that we are going to address in the coming years, especially among doctors and family doctors. To all this we must add – because it is also important to recognise it – the hospital boom that has occurred in recent decades, supported mainly in technology, training and training. –graduate and postgraduate – and research, which has led to a feeling of loss of value in primary care. Situation, as you have recognized not specific of Euskadi and which is also taking place in the health services of the rest of the communities and in most systems of advanced countries, especially those cutting model Beveridge or National Health System such as ours. There are reflection papers at this time at the National Health Service, in Australia, in Canada, there is also a proposal from the European Union... In this context, professional organizations and scientific societies are reasonably demanding improvements, but we must not overlook the fact that the situation of primary care in Euskadi and in the rest of the state is not comparable, either in budget, in means, in professionals, in facilities or in working conditions. You also know very well that in the Basque Country we have a much more favourable situation thanks, to a large extent, to the commitment of successive executives for health and for their health system as a country priority. We have much more job stability than in other health systems. Today, in primary care in Osakidetza, 88% of the staff of family doctors and 92% of the nursing staff are fixed; we have convened two OPEs in the last four years, prioritizing primary care places in both calls; the professional and work environment is more attractive, with higher wages and shorter hours, as confirmed by the fact that there are many people without residence in Euskadi who have targeted the last public offer of employment, in particular in the category of Family Medicine, 31% of those enrolled, do not reside in the community, 462 family doctors who do not reside in Euskadi, have registered in the last public offer of employment. Also in the number of patients per quota, which in Osakidetza is more adjusted and below the state average, which contributes to our average times of consultation per patient round 10 minutes, which is not reached in the rest of the state's health services. Therefore, as I was saying, we can share some of the demands made, but by assessing the reality to the right extent and recognizing that the primary care of Euskadi does not enjoy poor health. Our situation in Euskadin cannot be compared to the state of state. The first careful professionals who have worked here have a quality employment, stability is higher and better working conditions. The health of first-class Basque attention is not bad. In any case, the Department of Health and Osakidetza have been working on the strategy to improve primary care in Euskadi, being aware of the problem and the need for improvements. I am asked today for a working document, a draft which is not closed and which is open for reflection at the moment by all the professionals, also by the schools, will also be by the trade union organisations. A debate on the primary care model that we need in the current and near future. A document that has been shared with management teams, professionals and scientific societies. A document that includes primary care from the perspective of working in multidisciplinary teams, not just thinking about the functions and needs of doctors and pediatricians. Open to the participation of the different professional categories and also that from the perspective of an integrated system, as well as the primary one will have to know what to demand from hospitals, also hospitals in some specialties, it is also important to participate in the primary debate. And of course, if we want a good model of community primary care, as if we want to maintain a good model of community mental health, it is essential to contemplate the needs of workers and the organisation of social and social health services. To this end, we have put forward the draft work that has been distributed to primary care teams. That's why data is missing, calendars are missing, the document is not defined. It's a document today's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u113	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, colleagues, parliamentary companions. I understand, Mr President-in-Office, that it is an open working document, I too have mentioned it, and I appeal to the active participation of professional and social groups to be a reality. I have only tried in this first speech to raise some issues that I thought were important, which did not appear to be contained in the basic document, on the 29 pages of the basic document. There are 1,385 professionals who make 10 million consultations for at least the year 2016. There's unrest and demotivation in the sector, believe me. I understand what you're saying, I understand that unemployment has been greater or lesser, there's discomfort and demotivation. Do you know how many family doctors are going to retire? Do you remember your first job? Those who started the reform of primary care in 1985 will all retire. Remember, the Basic Health Structures Act was in February of 84, Basic Health Structures, the General Health Act in April of 86, but here we started the reform in primary care in 85. They were the first health centers. The first generation of family doctors and family doctors. The first generation of community nurses. Count, 85, you start working, 28 or 29 years old, don't you, counselor? Plus 30, they're going to retire. How many are going to retire? How many are in the labour market? How many of those 461 you have pointed to the public offer of employment are you going to be able to retain? Well, it's an important challenge. I understand that there are more problems to discuss, such as how resources are allocated in primary care, how the so-called chronicity strategy requires reflection, but requires peer-to-peer reflection. He said that the three bees with which the primary is sometimes assigned, they have to be solved, they have to be overcome definitively; I speak of banality, bureaucracy and garbage. Multiple consultations due to trivial problems, burdensome procedures with little rationality and many duties of our doctors and doctors, subordinates of the hospital level. It is therefore necessary to make good use of the debate proposed by the Department and proposed by the various social groups. I would not despise the document that they produced in November 2017, I know that with Osakidetza and with the Department of Health there have already been meetings. 260 family doctors began, with a 29-page document, which made some analyses and proposals, not very deep, but put his finger on the sore to strengthen Osakidetza's primary care system. Today it's 420, it's a virtual forum they're debating. In just three months it has multiplied by two. There's discomfort and unmotivation. I, in fact, if I could make this document available to the most professional and social groups, as you have mentioned in part, I would try to do so, because only people are linked to the objectives of change when they participate in your debate. I would try to, I would try to make this OPE a positive value for the system. More than family doctors, I'm worried about pediatricians, 179 have been pointed out. How will a pediatrician from 2 to 8 go to a health center if he is not adequately encouraged, if he is not adequately motivated in his professional work? He's going to a hospital. But, Mr. Counsellor, you are not going to a hospital, because a set of activities in health centres will be a priority. Well, well, well, let's see what our young pediatricians think and let's see what our family doctors think. The market is simple and flatly empty, there is no. In my opinion, this document is a document that can be very useful from the point of view of health policy, from the point of view of the encouragement of professionals, if they participate in their debate. And if they take into account the set of proposals that have to do with the micro, with the management of each day. There's a friend of mine who says...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Thank you. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u115	Uria jauna, she has left us all eager to know what her friend was saying. As you then have a question, you can devote 15 seconds to it and tell us. He mentioned the word unemployed again, I regret to say that it does not seem bad to me that people, I respect the right to strike of people; but yesterday, there was no unemployment. How many family doctors are going to retire? Well, we have a forecast, but believe me, it's not easy; right now doctors can work up to the age of 68 and depending on the time of their working life, and I'm going to set an example that you and I will remember. You yourself, before you appeared in this Parliament, were on a relay contract, I expected that you would only come to work at the Department of Health a few months a year and yet you have taken another full day for four years. So, it's not easy how many we're going to have and how many we're not going to have. The Department of Health of the Basque Government has been working for a long time on primary care and its new challenges with one goal, and for us it is a challenge, a challenge that is global. The situation with regard to primary care in an increasingly technological world is not our own and we are going to try to find a solution, which is being sought by the United Kingdom, which is being sought by most of the countries where doctors are salaried and have a national health system. Already at the beginning of this legislature, when we present the Department's strategic lines, we announced that enhancing primary care was an important goal for the Department of Health. For us to incorporate the largest number of groups into the debate is important and, of course, also to incorporate patient associations, and there we often have relationship problems because of the structure and atomization that patients associations have in Euskadi, where we often have three associations for each of the pathologies, with which we struggle, but that is one of the objectives. To give an adequate response to the new health needs of Basque society is what we have made the basic discussion paper for. The document, since you seem to have it, I will tell you that it contains seven lines of action. The first, which aims to optimize the organizational and management aspects of primary care teams. The second, which aims to strengthen a teamwork model, in which each professional profile deploys its capabilities to complement the functions of the rest. The third line, which seeks to revalue the role and role of primary care in our society. The fourth line, which aims to improve the attractiveness of primary care for doctors and family doctors, for pediatricians and for the rest of the groups, plans to make working days more attractive, but I am not going to share what pediatricians cannot care for children in the afternoon, I am not going to share. Any professional in Osakidetza, depending on how the activity is organized, will have to respond to the needs of the population, for which the Government dedicates to us a third of its budget that the citizens pay. It can't be that nurses have been doing shifts for years and have no problem reconciling family and work life, and then we're going to have collectives who, for various reasons, require working alone in the morning. The sixth line, has to do with pediatrics in primary care, and we will continue to bet on a model of care for the child population in the community for pediatricians and pediatric nurses. And the seventh and final line is related to linguistic normalization and gender equality, which if in the Administration is important, and in Osakidetza still is, in primary care we believe it is fundamental, because it is the first line of action where we serve people. These are, in summary, the lines of action proposed with the aim of making a strong primary care and able to conduct the care process. In short, Mr Uria, in answer to your question, I will tell you that, indeed, the strategy you want to be aimed at addressing the new challenges, strengthening the role of primary care. We are aware that we have to do this with the different groups and actors involved. We are not smarter than the others, we are going to try to involve everyone in the solution and, moreover, we are aware that it is not easy, because it is the same problem that health services in most countries in our environment currently have. And we are convinced that with interest and effort on the part of all of us we will achieve this, as we have done on other occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serano, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the state of the civil duties of the Homes in the Dava of the District of Biscay." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u117	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. What my friend says is "understand what your patients want and/or need and what your center does best or can learn, and this favors discussing structures that reflect collectively, it's time to open health centers." I would not have raised the issue of the lack of pediatricians in Durango if there were not three elements that motivated me to do so. One, that the people of Podemos and Bildu and other political groups in the City of Durango raised a motion, echoing a citizen platform that asked for 24 hours of pediatricians in Durangoaldea. She had Mrs. Idigoras, Mayor of Durango, to make a quality vote so as not to lose the vote. The citizen platform was up to date yesterday at 3,527 signatures already. If we take into account that there are about 4,000 minors in Durango, almost 100% of the Aita midwives But why are you worried? Because they have four pediatricians until 3:00 and because they have one pediatrician until 5:00. Who? Those of Durango, Amorebieta, Iurreta, Berriz, Mañaria, Garai, Abadiño, Berriz, Zaldibar, Elorrio, Maiabia, Markina, Ondarroa, et cetera, et cetera. I was also concerned that I was reading these things and an old acquaintance, the mayor of Abadiño, was saying in public "The lack of pediatricians is bleeding. We have to take him to Eudel's executive commission." The executive commission? Jon Darpón with Eudel's executive commission, hitting himself? It can't be, man. Blanca Roncal, Laura Garrido, Gorka Maneiro, Nerea Antia – to the PSOE government – have always asked for appearances on the subject of the lack of pediatricians and it has been up to you to solve it. What a mess. Why hasn't Gabi Inclán solved it? He's touched it. And besides, Esther, the pediatrician of the health center of Matiena, is going to retire; Kike, of the health center of Galdakao, is going to retire; and Txema, of the health center of Iurreta, has just retired; and Ramon, of Olaguibel, and two other pediatricians of Gasteiz are going to retire. ♪ It's growing ♪ He's touched it. You have to figure it out. You have more than eight measures in the basic document that you mentioned and that I have already read. And I'm going to read it again. Eight measures, some very powerful to solve the pediatric problem, which is not a simple issue, it is not a simple issue, I would not like to be in place, but let's discuss it more often. You have to explain to people a master plan for pediatrics, without fear. You have to explain, because every month you will have a problem of these characteristics; it is like "Yes, Prime Minister", that in one tray enters the problem, signs it and goes to the other tray, but it is not solved. I believe that, starting with putting, for example, 24-hour pediatrics in the Galdakao hospital, as it has put in Urduliz, it would not be a bad measure, especially as summer comes, that the population pyramids of the people of the coast change radically. And if they are aging populations, they are populations full of boys and girls, since June already. The people of Lekeitio know they have to go to Cruces, from Durango to Amorebieta. I was going to ask him; Julen Arzuaga has little children; Maddalen Iriarte has little children in Durango; the lehendakari don't know if he has...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u119	A little solidarity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u120	Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u121	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, yellow uria, berriro. Of course, Osaetrica has a pediatrician model within the scope of primary attention units. The pediatric model is well known, it's solid, and it's been giving extra results years ago. Osakidetza has a model of pediatrics in primary care, known, consolidated and with excellent results for many years, a model that guarantees, uniformly and equitably, the regular and urgent care of children, complementing the attention of primary care teams with that of the CAP, in Durango, Ondarroa, in Lekeitio, in Karrantza, in Laudio, in Donostia, in Gasteiz and in Bilbao, and you know it. The children of Durangoaldea have quality pediatric health care during 24 hours of the day, comparable to the best health systems in the world you choose to compare, and under the same conditions, very important, in equity with the rest of the paediatric population of Euskadi. I wouldn't dare sign, put in Durangaldea what you can't put in the rest, among other things because you probably don't need to. As you are well aware, all healthcare professionals who care for the child population, pediatricians, PAC doctors and doctors and nursing staff are perfectly qualified to care for the pediatric population, and if it were necessary to perform a referral to the emergency of the reference hospital, which in the case of Euskadi and with some honorable exception, such as the Carranza Valley, no one is more than 30 minutes from the emergency of the reference hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u122	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The water doesn't have time, so we'll go back to the next subject. The 18th theme on the subject list... [[Words]] ... Kendu egin said. Well, two minutes. That there were more, but well... Okay. Come on. Your word. No, but it's his time and he can finish time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u123	Well, I don't want to leave myself in the dark, Mr. Uria, recommend that you download the study "Pediatrics in Europe, organization and training", Following the analysis of paediatric care in all European Union countries, it was concluded that only 25% of European countries have pediatricians in primary care, and not only in hospitals, including Euskadi. You say it's up to me to solve the problem. I actually face all the problems that are assigned to me, and in this one, it is true, but I think there is more a perception of problem than real problem, and there are the indicators of child health. And among other things, I will be faced with the problem, not because it has not been solved by Councillor Bengoa or Councillor Inclán or etc., but the model of pediatric care that we have today in Euskadi is the same one that existed between the years 89 and 92, and if I remember correctly, you were regional director of extra-hospital care precisely in the inner region for which you are asking me today. I agree that at that time the pediatric organization was right, and you should share by consistency and responsibility that today's one is also right. I don't see you saying it takes Durangaldea pediatricians 24 hours. I don't see him. I am very aware of the knowledge you treasure to make populism with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u124	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Cianova Alonso ARRRR, the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, concerning the strike of the workers of the Gipurian hotels." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u125	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. Last April 5th, the staff of the Gipulia hotels announced the strike call. This strike will be completed, unless something happens, on the 23rd, 24th and 25th of May. At once the call was made public, its planning, and it was in a very critical direction that this strike rang out. Considering that the reasons for the strike are to recover the capacity of the workers' purchases, and also to face the premification that progresss in the sector, we would like to address the question to the chief physician: Does the government think it's more serious to go on a strike to sue for precarnation than pregation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casanova. I am a little surprised by your question, because a strike call was actually announced last Thursday for 23, 24, and 25 May, and immediately for the next day I called trade unions and employers in the sector to take the temperature of the situation, and I made a public appearance in which I expressed my position on it. The following Monday I did a radio interview on Radio Euskadi, in which I re-emphasized the same arguments I had used at the first appearance. Arguments, therefore, that I have publicly defended and that you in that question seem to want to turn them around or ignore what I have said and live in a parallel world. These principles were, first, the defence of collective bargaining as the best mechanism for reconciling interests between employers and trade union representatives, especially at the moment when it has weakened. The defence of the right to strike and, in particular, the right to strike in the housing sector. And beyond the defense of collective bargaining, the defense of classical values of socialism, such as the defense of the principle of equity and equal treatment of workers working or working in the same sector. Whether it is men or women, workers who depend on different companies, or workers who have different contracts, this particularly affects young people when this principle of equity is not applied. And finally, also, the defense of the value of organizing the World Summit of the WTO in Donostia, in Euskadi. A summit that I continue to consider, from the moment we work to achieve it, that is an opportunity to demonstrate that Donostia and Euskadi are a safe and effective space for the development of these kinds of events. Therefore, Mr Casanova, I am concerned about the working conditions of the workers and I am also concerned about the image of the country, among other things because if we do not create wealth, we will not be able to distribute it fairly. Therefore, I defend, I did so from the beginning, I defend the just conditions of the workers, and I also advocate that the World Summit of the WTO be held with guarantees and be held in Donostia-San Sebastián and in Euskadi. Can you say the same?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u128	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u129	Well, I'll start at the end, to answer. I hope that this summit can be held and that it will be a success. Not only for the intrinsic value of it, but that would also mean that there has been an agreement on this issue and that, therefore, the strike has been deconvoked in the only way that it is going to be devocated, or that it can be devocated, that it is reaching a satisfactory agreement for the workers. You mentioned an immediate response from the government, and the press also boasted of it. But you, not that you have had an immediate answer, you have acted, first, late, very late, and second, wrong. They have acted quickly with regard to the call for a strike, almost immediately. But this conflict does not begin when a strike is called on April 5. The negotiating table for the Gipuzkoa Hotel Collective Agreement is set up in February 2017. It has been 15 months since his Government, which has jumped as a spring in the face of a strike call, moved a single finger, or even to pick up the phone and call the workers, to worry about what was going on in this sector. They've been doing absolutely nothing for 15 months. That is why we tell them that they have acted late and have acted badly. They have acted badly, because I have indeed read their statements in their entirety, not only the headlines, but their response has given rise to this kind of headlines, to the fact that the press in this country is flooded with headlines in which the strike is related to the contempt of the image of this country. And that's unacceptable. Maybe it wasn't your intention, but this is what you've achieved. And look, the workers we have few tools to defend ourselves from the neoliberal offensive we are suffering and the strike is one of them. A tool through which we have many of the rights we have today. And it cannot be allowed, on the part of a government, in this case by its department, but also by Mrs Uriarte, and on the part of other spokespersons, to question the right to strike whenever there is a call that does not satisfy them. Of course, one may disagree with a specific strike call, but what is not possible is to discredit the right to strike. If the workers get something from their work and their fight, and the rest of them because they've done this strike call. His proclamations are just, they are just, and are plausible, because they are applied elsewhere. They demand worthy wages, worthy conditions of labour, and restrictions of extension. Perhaps it will seem to you a contempt of the image of this country that a strike is called on a somewhat annoying date for your department. What seems to me to be a disparage of the image of this country and of the tourism sector of this country is that services are outsourced to hire housekeepers paying 600 euros a month for some exhausting workdays. You have reversed the order of responsibilities, you have put the ball of wanting to discredit this country and the tourism of this country in the hands of the workers, and not in the hands of Adegi and the hospitality federation, who are responsible for not giving rise to such situations of precariousness and exploitation. So congratulate the workers, for if they do anything, their fight will be done by them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u130	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u131	Mr Casanova, I am quite surprised that the media control work on what they can say or not, or what holder or non-holder you are now transferring to a question to the Government, specifically to me. I insist that I have said this from the beginning and I will literally quote a part of my public intervention the day after the call and after I have spoken, and so I transferred it to them too, with trade unions and employers. "To the extent that both actors accept as I do the defense of collective bargaining and the realization of the same rights and the same working conditions for all hotel workers, I am convinced that with a little effort that I ask you from here, we will be able to reach a good port." I emphasized, in fact, that they could reach an agreement and that that was the way to avoid it. In these key work, because I still consider it very important for Euskadi that this world tourism summit be held in Euskadi and that we show an image of capacity and seriousness to the world, not only in tourism terms but also for the projection of Euskadi in a global world, which even being a small country, has to compete in that global world. As I am also glad that this very week, two days ago, we have achieved another international summit, of another rank but specifically of oenological tourism for Vitoria-Gasteiz. I'm glad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u132	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, a member of the Populallarian Groups of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumos, in Turism, commerce, and Comssamo." About introducing 2017 to 2020 of the Stratal Plan's Sectors." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u133	Yes, thank you, Madam President. On 26 December 2017, the Governing Council of this autonomous community approved the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020. In this plan is included the Basque Trade Master Plan 2017-2020, which says to endorse the objectives of the government program synthesized in the idea of more employment, reduction of unemployment below 10%, more wealth, reach 125 % GDP of the European Union, better distribution of this wealth, reduction of 20% of the poverty rate. On February 20 the associations of merchants appeared in this House, commercial organizations, managers of the commercial sector of the three capitals, did not know the final result of this plan. They told us that they had an individual interview with the plan's drafting company, a workshop with the Department of Commerce, but they did not know that the plan was finished and with the approval, they did not know the conclusions of the workshop, they did not know the axes of the plan and the lines of action. After four months of the approval of this plan, the plan has not been made known to the sector. When do you intend to introduce him to the main actors in the plan, counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u135	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs López de Ocariz. You are committed to an idea that I have seen you repeat it over and over again, even repeated it twice to each of your interlocutors, because it confused the presentation with the time of the question. You were trying, you said, to suggest the non-participation of the sector in development in the elaboration of the Plan – yes, I saw it ask several times – and that despite the revolt you received precisely in that Trade Committee on 20 February, in which you said over and over again "but you really did not participate", and over and over again you were told that you did indeed participate in the elaboration of the Strategic Plan, which was a commitment of the Government, indeed, for the first year of the legislature, and which was adopted last December, a Plan which includes, in that Strategic Plan, which includes the Master Plan for Trade. Its elaboration responded to an open process in which the sector participated, in which the associative agents of the sector participated and which was channelled through a series of measures, which were the individual or personalized interviews, the online and telephone participation device, with a telephone 900, for the collection of contributions and opinions and which, in addition, included collective reflection dynamics, structured around different working groups. In-depth interviews were conducted with relevant actors: heads of trade federations, representatives of district associations, management of urban platforms, some Trade Councils, chambers of commerce, relevant companies and banking entities. The web space of online participation, I say, supported in addition by a telephone 900, collected the opinions and contributions of traders, institutional agents, such as the network of technical staff of trade of the Basque Government, the associative fabric of the sector, consumer associations, trade unions, etc. And the working groups were structured at the level, on the one hand, territorial and, on the other, sectoral, on the situation and alternatives of the future of the sector, and once that reflection was carried out in each of these groups, they were added, synthesized and offered later in other working groups in a cross way to make the sector known, and for the sharing and discussion of these conclusions reached. Therefore, he said, and since it could not be otherwise, the sector has been counted on, its contributions have been taken into account and the sector has been informed at all times of the development of the Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u137	Well, counselor, you don't seem to want to understand. You come up with a favorite idea and in that idea it's where you move. I didn't tell you that they didn't participate, I told you what is textually transcribed from the committee that said the options: they participated in a workshop, in an individual interview and in a workshop and in a meeting of traders pooled. That's what's transcribed, there's nothing else. I don't have any favorite idea, I don't have any favorite idea. And I asked him, that he hasn't answered me, for when he intends to present the definitive plan, that they don't know him. They have participated, they have made contributions, but they do not know how it has finally been written. Have you made corrections? Have you taken it into account? Look, counselor, we could read it yesterday: "60 % of the Vizcay trade loses sales during the first quarter of 2018 over the same period of the previous year." The president of Cecobi said: "The situation is beginning to be worrying about the context in which we are moving and at a time when it seems that the economy is growing in most sectors. Nor in the spring sale are they an impulse to the sector." Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, we are in a worrying situation; what I want is for you to take the trade sector of the Basque Country seriously, because the slogan of the Plan says "new policies for new times". Look, new policies that are not known by the agents who have to implement them, do not know them, do not know what they are; but that was also said in the Commission. That didn't happen to him, what was transcribed? That they didn't know you were finally approved? That they didn't know the text was finally approved? Hey, don't read some things and bad, twisted. The text of the Plan states: "In order to achieve this objective from trade, it is considered necessary to consolidate the sector after a few years of falling of the commercial park and difficulties, to renew the sector, the competitive improvement". All this has to be applied by the traders, of a plan that you have four months in the drawer and that the trade sector does not know it. They don't know him. Hey, I spoke to the trade sector yesterday, they haven't been able to present this plan. I think it's time they introduced him, agreed with them. They've been summoned for the 27th to talk about the PTS. They don't invite you to talk about the Trade Master Plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Finally, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, do you see how you are committed to the sector not participating? It reduces participation to what you say from that Commission and I have told you that there were many more actors in the sector present in that elaboration of the Plan. In any case, with regard to the specific question that it is enclosed in a drawer, the Plan is to guide and articulate the Government's policy and, obviously, it is not hidden in a drawer. The communication you are asking me for has been, is being and will continue to be made by the usual channels of government. Both the Vice-Adviser of Commerce and the Director of Commerce have had more than thirty meetings since the adoption of the Plan until now. At those meetings, when questions are raised about the contents of the Plan, about aspects or about the Plan as a whole, these questions are answered, Mrs López de Ocariz. In addition, a public act is pending, out of pure parliamentary courtesy, to be supplemented, as you know, by the presentation in committee that I have requested of that Plan. And finally, the full Master Plan is available since it was approved on the Department's website, usual channels of communication between the Department and the sector to which we owe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-13.u140	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
