ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The law made by the Parlamentarian People of Euscal, in order to protect and defend the domestic animals of the Euskal Autonomia Erdigo. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. On the side side, who wants to participate in the Popular Party? Well, Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselor. From the Basque People's parliamentary group, taking into account the need to update the existing legislation on animal protection in the Basque Country...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u2	Please, silence, for the discussion has begun.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u3	... and to adapt it to the new requirements and current needs, to the new laws that have been passed, which the Government also shares, we have considered it opportune to present this proposal of law, of protection and defense of the pets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Proposal for a law aimed at implementing more effective measures in the defence and protection of pet animals, a text which responds to a repeated social demand related to animal welfare and which also aims to respond to the need to update an animal protection law, in force since the year 93, and which, after 25 years of validity, requires appropriate adaptation. It is in the last decades, and as a result of an awareness of the cultural and economically more advanced societies, where there is an increasingly widespread current that demands regulation of the relationship of people with animals and, in general, with the living beings of their environment, based on respect and protection of them. Since the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Animal, proclaimed on 15 October 1978, there have been Community regulations and directives in this area, which have contributed to the cultural and ethical development of society, so that the respect, protection and protection of animals can be established. With regard to pets in Spain and their regulation in administrative law, as a guarantee right, as a vigilant right, we do not have a state framework law protecting them. What we have is the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Company Animals, done in Strasbourg on 13 November 1987, which was authorized by the Council of Ministers, and it is on 9 October 2015 when the Spanish Plenipotentiary signed it in Strasbourg, granted the authorization provided for in Article 94.1 of the Constitution by the General Courts, and which entered into force in Spain on 1 February 2018, a convention to which our legislation must be adapted and which we have taken into account from the People's Group when drafting this bill. In the field of State legislation, and as a reflection or transposition of European directives and regulations, in the internal legal order of the State, mention should be made, in particular, of Act No. 8/2003 of 24 April 2003 on animal health and Act No. 32/2007 of 7 November 2007 on the care of animals on their holding, transport, testing and slaughter, expressly excluding pet and pet animals, without prejudice to other sectoral or specific rules, such as Act No. 50/1999 of 23 December 1999 on the legal regime for the possession of potentially dangerous animals. But as I was telling you, there is no state law that contains a specific regulation on pet animals. It has been the autonomic legislators who are addressing the regulatory work, making society's own concern to defend the rights of these pets and domestic animals, and to equip themselves with mechanisms to protect them. In the Basque Country, we have also not been alien to these movements of awareness of society in favour of the respect and protection of animals and, in addition to the law in force in 1993 on the protection of animals, subsequently and in the same line of protection and guarantees, successive rules have been issued: Decree 101/2004 of 1 June 2004 on the possession of animals of the canine species of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; or Decree 81/2006 of 11 April 2006 on zoological centres; or Law 10/2007 of 29 June 2007 on dogs of assistance for the care of persons with disabilities. Given the time that has elapsed, 25 years, since the enactment of the current norm, given the increase in economic and commercial activities related to these animals, the increase in the domestic possession of species other than those traditionally considered company and given the social rejection of the slaughter of these animals, which the current law authorizes in articles 16 and 17 of the Law on the Protection of Animals, 1993... For all this, we consider it necessary to provide the Basque Autonomous Community with an up-to-date, effective and guaranteed legal instrument in the defence and protection of pet animals, the aim of which is to deepen educational and social awareness measures, strengthening the sanctioning regime in the face of incivical and cruel conduct, in order to achieve the eradication of animal abuse and abandonment behaviour, unfortunately still too frequent. Since the People's Group, in the text we are proposing, we have wanted to go beyond specific amendments to the existing law, to Act No. 6/1993 on the protection of animals. We considered it opportune to draw up a new updated legal text, which comprehensively addresses the regulation of those aspects specifically related to pet animals, seeking greater coherence and systematic regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u5	... while it is intended to clarify and make it easier for citizens to understand the obligations they must assume, and to extend them substantially. It is the commitment of the People's Group to expressly prohibit the slaughter of animals in cases of abandonment, whether or not they are identified and whatever the period of time that goes by without their owner claiming it. The law in force permits sacrifice and, to this end, the Government's criterion not a single reference, nor the slightest reference. This is, it seems, what the government calls integral, I ask. The content of this proposed law is structured in 46 articles, three additional provisions, four transitional provisions, three final provisions and an annex, which contains a list of animals whose possession is prohibited outside the expressly authorized premises. Chapter I lists those provisions relating to the content, purpose and essential purpose of the law, its scope and the generic obligations and prohibitions affecting owners and owners of pet animals. Animals are conceived as living beings, endowed with physical and psychic sensitivities, and with voluntary movements, so they must receive the treatment that, basically meeting their ethical needs, seeks their well-being. It should be said that we, in article 2, define, for the purposes of this law, as pets "the domestic animals that people generally keep in the home for fundamental purposes of company, leisure, educational or social, because they belong to species that traditionally and habitually possess man, in order to live in domesticity in the home". If this is compared to the definition made by the current law, which means domestic animals, "for the purposes of this law, those who depend on the hand of man for their existence; that they are domesticated animals those who, having been born wild, are in the company of man, depending definitively on this one for their subsistence; and that they are wild animals in captivity those who, having been born wild, are subjected to conditions of captivity but not of learning for their domestication". I mean, how do they define domestics?: as pets, as men's pets. In addition, we say that, in any case, the following shall be taken into account: "mammals (dogs, cats, ferrets, rodents, rabbits other than rabbits for the production of food and equidae used for sports or leisure purposes); invertebrates, except bees, bumblebees, molluscs and crustaceans; ornamental aquatic animals; amphibians; reptiles; birds: all species of birds, except poultry, and any other animal species that is determined by regulation". "By way of derogation from the preceding paragraph, animals of those species which are included in the various State or autonomous lists or catalogues of species with special protection regime, threatened species or invasive alien species, and whose possession is not legally permitted, or those which are asilfested in the natural environment to which the wildlife legislation shall apply, shall not be considered as pet animals." With regard to the obligations of owners and owners, we extend the obligations: We propose to identify the animal according to the applicable regulations and to register it in the relevant records. We may, among other obligations, employ and maintain civil liability insurance. And we consider the obligation section very important: we prohibit the sacrifice of animals, zero sacrifice, which the current law allows. We're banning the pychoon shot. The current law allows this, and it says that outlaws will be able to authorize shooting societies to hold pitch shooting competitions. We believe that it is necessary to prohibit it, because this practice involves an unjustified sacrifice, and we are betting on the zero sacrifice. We prohibit the authorisation of fairground attractions with tied animals; this is not prohibited and this is sometimes done. And we think this is a book abuse. We prohibit the sale, donation or transfer of animals to children under 16 years of age, without the authorization of anyone who has parental authority. This is one of the premises of the European Convention, and we also set it out in this proposal for a law. Chapter II deals primarily with the conditions of possession and transport of these pet animals in order to ensure their well-being, as well as the relations of these animals with the environment, in order to avoid damage to other animals or persons. Chapter III sets out the basic principles and precepts on health control, identification and registration of pet animals. The slaughter of animals in the event of abandonment is expressly prohibited, or where the disease or injury which they may suffer, in the opinion of the veterinary professional, is compatible with a dignified life. In chapter IV, we regulate the centers and establishments for the promotion and care of pets. In Chapter V, the treatment to be given to animals which have the legal status of abandoned, including forecasts of their collection, establishments for their accommodation, as well as the powers of the municipalities in this area. Chapter VI refers to the role of the entities involved in the defence and protection of these animals. Chapter VII refers to the importance of making known the content of this proposed law, if approved, to citizens, to administrations, with the aim of promoting social awareness in the care and possession of animals. Chapter VIII deals with cooperation and coordination between the different public administrations which have different powers in this field. Chapter IX regulates, in a generic way, the inspection, the sanctioning regime, its adaptation to euro and the slight, serious and very serious infringements, which seek to collect all those reprehensible behaviors and actions that affect pets. Four transitional provisions and three final provisions, in addition to the Annex for animals whose possession is prohibited outside registered zoos or expressly authorised enclosures. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a text which seeks to integrate the principles and rights that must be guaranteed to the nearest animals in the company of man and that coexist with human beings in their own environment, the aim of which is to promote the awareness of all citizens of responsible attitudes and of respect for animals and which, if reprehensible conduct occurs, can be sanctioned. I would like to refer to the Government's view, which has said the following: "That, although the Government shares the need to update existing legislation in the area of animal protection in Euskadi, adapting it to the requirements and needs of the present time, marks the unfavourable view of taking into account the proposal for a law and which is motivated or supported by three reasons", whose order I am going to alter, because I believe that the importance is different from that proposed by the Government's own opinion: First, it says: "The proposed law registered in Parliament involves some changes in the current regulation that are a step backwards from the point of view of regulation of the matter. It should be noted, in this respect, that it refers only to pet animals, compared to an integral law such as the 6/1993, of 29 October". And first I have to say: the word 'integral' does not appear in the entire text of the current law. He doesn't show up. They have had to invent a term to compare with the bill proposed by the People's Group. The reason or reasons given, therefore, are based on a false premise or derived from a misconception both of the law in force and of the proposed rule: the proposed law is as comprehensive or as unintegral – as it is seen – as the Law 93 of 29 October currently in force. Anyone who reads, as I have read you before, with some attention, articles 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 3.3 of the proposal and compares them with articles 1, 2 and 3 of the current law will, without special effort, conclude that the scope of application covered by both rules is exactly the same, regardless of its denomination. Furthermore, we consider that this criterion has not taken into account the regulations that have been adopted later. I have referred to the Animal Defence Act 2007. They have not taken it into account for this criterion. On the one hand, the law in force refers only to domestic animals or domesticated animals, which the law in force defines precisely as "those accustomed to the sight and company of man", and to captive savages for or for the purpose of their domestication. That is, to make them domestic, as long as they depend on man's hand for their livelihood. In the proposal for a law, all of them are conceived as pets, according to the legal definition that is made of them. In other words, "both domestic animals and those that are domesticated or those that man breeds or possesses in order to live in domesticity in the home", as expressed in the proposed law, "are and are legally conceived as pets". And go to the European Convention on Company Animals. In addition, and in order to ensure that there is no doubt about what the proposal refers to when it states that "it is understood as pet animals...", Article 2.2 makes an exclusive list and mention that I have read to you here, and Article 2.3, an exclusive reference to the scope of application. But it is also that the current law itself has no problem in referring to all the animals to which it applies: domestic, domesticated and wild in captivity for domestication as pets. And so, if we go to the single transitional provision of the current law, in dealing with the time frame for adaptation of establishments or reception centres or houses, the law says: "The establishments concerned with the rearing or sale of pet animals, as well as residences, training centres, collection centres for abandoned animals and other facilities for the purpose of temporarily maintaining pet animals, which, at the date of publication of this law, do not meet the requirements laid down therein, shall have a period of one year to comply with them." On the other hand, it is logical that both the proposed law and the current law do not apply to all animals. Despite what the Government can proclaim, it is obvious that the current law is not comprehensive in this regard. Both regulations, with much more precise terminology, the proposal that we have put forward from the People's Group, exclude from its scope, in addition to animals called wild animals or, rather, living in wild or wild conditions, in their natural environment, a number of animals that are governed by their specific regulations or their own – I want to say to you and I have told you before, Article 2.2, 2.3 and 3.3 of the proposal and Article 3 of the current law – which are lidia seeds, experimental animals, aquatic fisheries or fish species, cinegetic species, etc. In short, the proposal for a law, contrary to what the criterion shows, does not constitute any step backwards in the regulation of the matter. On the contrary, it is more advanced, demanding and modern than the current one. And what is sure to be a step backwards in the regulation of matter is to leave things as they are. And, in any case, it does not seem reasonable to base an unfavourable criterion on the content of the scope of application of a rule by its name alone, if, for example, in other Spanish Autonomous Communities, the denominations of the laws on the protection and defence of animals which affect or have the same scope of application as the law of the Basque Country and the present proposal for a law receive various denominations: Animal protection: Andalusia, Cantabria, Catalonia, Extremadura, Navarra, La Rioja and Canarias. Animal protection: Aragon. Possession, protection and rights of animals: Asturias. Protection of domestic animals: Castilla-La Mancha and Madrid. Protection of pets: Castilla y León, Valencia and Murcia. Protection of captive domestic and wild animals: Galicia. Protection of animals living in the human environment: Balearic Islands. Therefore, as you will see, in relation to pet animals, I believe that the name and protection of animals are varied. In short, it is the scope of application that marks the regulation, not the title, and, as I say to you, the scope of application of the proposal put forward by the People's Group and the scope of application of the existing rules are exactly the same. Another argument quoted by the Government to oppose the inclusion reads: "The initiative does not imply giving the existing legislation greater coherence and systematic, because it aims to break into an area in which the implementation of regulations and administrative management is largely attributed to the foral and municipal levels, causing a distortion that is not coherent in the legal system and prompts the rejection of the above-mentioned institutional levels." Nothing further from reality. Generally speaking, it is not true that it is intended to break in or that, in fact, it falls into the field of regulatory implementation and administrative management attributed to municipalities and outlaws. The proposed text does not cause or exist distortion of any kind in the system of conferring powers between different administrations or, of course, in the coherence of the legal system. The opposite is apparent from the mere reading of the proposed law. The proposed law follows the same pattern as the current law, in terms of the distribution of functions and administrative management among the various administrations. It scrupulously respects the provisions on these issues by legislation in the Basque autonomic sphere, such as Decree 101 of 2004. Also Decree 81/2006. Also Law 10/2007 of 29 June. The proposal for a law provides for and maintains the respective regulatory capacities or powers, functions and management of both the outlying departments and the municipalities, within their respective competences; inter alia, in matters such as the possession and movement of animals, health control, registration, identification of animals, with reference to the authorisation of the outlying veterinarians in accordance with the requirements laid down in the outlying decrees of the respective historical territories, the collection of abandoned animals, the capture and disposal of corpses, euthanasia in animals, sales establishments, residences, breeding, training centres, collection and shelter centres, as well as the inspection and enforcement of the sanctioning regime, in accordance with the competence of each administration. While the margins of the amounts of sanctions are updated. As an exception to the above, it should be noted – which I have said before but I repeat – that, in the area of competence, while the current law allows the holding of shooting competitions to the pichón, assigning the competence for its authorization to the competent foral department, the proposal of law that we make suppresses this function, but not by assigning it to another administration, simply prohibits such practice in the Basque Country, completely, because it constitutes an animal book abuse. In any event, if there were or were any errors, malfunctions or objections on the part of any administration, the proposal may be considered, repaired or modified. This proposal is a proposal for a law open to everyone who belongs to the administration sector, veterinary colleges, etc., if you give him or her the opportunity to enter a procedure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has become clear. And a third argument that the Government says is "that the initiative is not designed to give a specific response to the Basque reality, as it addresses certain problems that do not occur in Euskadi, such as the authorization of fair, swivel or carousel attractions. And on the contrary, it does not address issues that are of relevant importance in our community, such as the regulation of pastor dog contests." It should be said that the Government has not read the ordinances of the municipalities, where some of them prohibit the use of animals at rotating fairs. We want it to be banned throughout the Autonomous Community, not just on a few points. With this assessment, it seems that the Government intends to ridicule, disqualify or disregard the proposed law, stating that it does not contemplate, which does not respond, the Basque reality. Nor is this true: the initiative is not dedicated to addressing the problem of the use in rotating or carousel fairs or other similar attractions of treated animals, but it is simply an issue that is cited as one of the more than 25 prohibited acts or acts referred to in article 5 of the proposed law. And, indeed, it is the municipalities that then develop the ordinances, and we forbid it, but it can be removed, if there is a majority that says it should not appear. Therefore, it seems to me that it is a joke to look at this, when the proposed law has areas of greater depth and depth than this. And, indeed, the proposal for a law does not address the relevant problem of regulating pastor's dog competitions, among other things, because we consider that it should not do so. In fact, neither does the current law, which does not regulate these competitions or other forms of Basque rural sport, which, as a basic element, involve the use of domestic animals, nor the participation of domestic animals in fairs or popular demonstrations... All of them, all of these issues, have their specific regulations, and are subject to the corresponding administrative authorization of both the Basque Government and the municipal government. We say this in Article 5, in point W, which prohibits non-compliance with the animal health and protection rules in force in the case of participation of animals in fairs, events, sports activities or other concentrations of live animals, as well as not having obtained the administrative authorisation required for participation in the relevant event. Therefore, they are all collected. I don't know why the government recreates itself in this matter. For the purpose of the proposed law, it is sufficient for the holders of such animals to comply with their obligations in respect of food, accommodation, sanitary conditions, veterinary care, care and protection and identification and safety laid down in the proposal and to refrain from carrying out the acts referred to in Article 5 of the proposed law, in particular or specifically paragraph J, in relation to the supply of substances or drugs which may cause them harm or suffering, in order to increase performance in a competition, except in cases covered by a rule. In short, if the Government wishes to express an unfavourable approach to the consideration of the proposed law, it is in its perfect right, even if the reason is political or strategic, but not motivated by reasons or considerations that do not conform to the truth or respond to a thorough and objective analysis of the proposed law. The government... yesterday, we were expressly aware of its unfavourable approach to the handling of this bill, not for criteria of opportunity or objective reasons, but for purely political reasons, because the bill is presented by the People's Party. Because yesterday we were able to verify the treatment given to the proposed law it presented EH Bildu about the Anti-Corruption Office, with plenty of reasons not to process the initiative, and yet the criterion is favorable. Let's not bother the budget partner. The Government has the right to continue to maintain a law that allows the slaughter of abandoned animals, that does not sufficiently promote the possession, purchase, sale and responsible breeding to combat abandonment and that does not bet on promoting educational activities that promote respect, protection and defence of domestic or company animals in general. And it is also in your perfect right that tomorrow another proposal for a law in similar terms arrives here on this matter that does not address the pastor's dog contests, that addresses the use of animals in fair attractions, that is as comprehensive as this proposal, that breaks as much as this proposal in the foral and municipal sphere, and gives you the favorable criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. We'll go in reverse shift. The Social Party, against the opposition, including Podemos... Well, that's good. Then Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u7	President, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group is going to vote against taking this bill into consideration, and it is going to do so mainly for two reasons: The first, by content. Indeed, as the Government expresses in its unfavorable view, we share those reasons which, of course, have many more explanations and, certainly, by sharing them, we are also against, because we want to address this law, the reform of the law of the year 93, in a much more comprehensive way. But that is also not the fundamental reason, because the proposal made by the Group of the European People's Party could perfectly be amended and resolved in those issues that we consider appropriate, to give it that character which is pointed out in that unfavourable approach or which could be pointed out in other observations that each of the groups would like to make. The fundamental reason why we are going to vote against is – and why we are not going to take it into consideration – is because of the disregard that the People's Group has had for a work that has been done for months in this House. Mrs Ocariz knows that we went on holiday with a proposal that was being worked on, that she was seeking the agreement of all the groups and that she was prepared, as I say, before the holidays, and that it could perfectly have been presented to this House, but that it was not done because it was intended to give more time to work the observations and proposals made by the different groups. Mrs. Ocariz knew this. Mrs Ocariz had that proposal, a proposal which, we have to say, starts from the Podemos group, because it is they who are putting forward the initiative, we see it, we are moving forward, we are giving it the approval and which she intends to achieve, if possible, because we thought it was possible, the unanimity of this House. But on 13 September we find that, I do not know whether in a gesture of opportunism or in any other consideration, this presentation and this proposal of law is made. It does not seem reasonable to us to work this way, because it breaks a style of trust, which must exist among us when we make the commitment to work it until we have it prepared and can carry it forward. Therefore, as you will understand, for any legislation in this House, it will always be infinitely more important to have a high consensus, to be able to be a unanimity, to be a partial job and that a search for a protagonist, which was not necessary, because the protagonist is not in which group it presents it, but the protagonist is in which legislation is done, in what is improved, in what is given greater coverage to the care of animals. This is an initiative which, in addition, was working with groups outside this House. There are groups of jurists; in particular, one of them resides in the Bar Association of Bizkaia, which also have been making observations, to the thread of modifications, variations, advances... that were being done both in international and national legislation, as well as in the autonomous ones, and, hand in hand, we were all trying to shed light on an improvement of the law. You have broken – you wanted to break – this job and obviously you cannot have a favorable answer. It seems to us the concern of any of the groups, including yours, to move forward on this issue that we are dealing with, but it does not seem to us that you wanted to use the protagonistism, the unilaterality... to address this. We want to address the relationship with animals with better ethical and philosophical principles; society is evolving in that area. We want to combat animal abuse better; we want zero violence in any area of life and therefore also here. We want treatment in the face of abandonment, identification or the activities practiced by animals. All this, as society evolves, must also have its reflection in the laws. We work in that direction. So, as I said, we want to work on comprehensive legislation that is up to this progress that has already been made elsewhere. This is the reason for not taking into account. I think you'd do well to withdraw this bill. I think it would be good to be part of what may be, I would say more than a consensus, a unanimity of this House, and I think it would be very good for legislation and it would also be very good for the style of work that must be in a House when there is a chance of reaching agreements among all; but, finally, if you insist on maintaining a certain opportunism, we will reject it. In any case, I cannot finish this intervention without greeting Martin and Grisita: they are my cat and my cat, who share a roof with me. I am very happy and they never thought of being quoted in a Minutes of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u8	Thank you, Mr Price. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u9	Thank you, Mrs. President, good day to all members of the legislature. We will not support this enterprise in our circle, we will not protect it, and we will not enter in any way, or why it has been introduced before or not in the future; we shall see only the content of the initiative, and in this content we see that it is a remarkable backward step, compared with the law of '93. The obvious backward step is because it protects only some animals, and this is surprising: Because it's a pure copy of the Murcia law, it doesn't include the distribution of our hands. Eta harrigaria da hau, bathe aja ohituta egon behar race. And the reflection we would have to do is why we change a law, why we change a law in Parliament... Normally, we do it to move forward, to improve; so we think, at least, some groups that we call ourselves progressive. But even groups that don't call themselves progressives, as much as they call themselves conservatives: they intend to keep what's there, even if it's bad, but never make it worse, and yet to our surprise, this law comes to make what we already have worse. It is a clear setback with respect to the 1993 law, a clear setback because it will only protect pets, pets, and not other types of animals, such as those of income or production, that have ceased to have such a destination there. And all we have to do is look at what animals are included in this law, what animals are contemplated in this proposal of law..., to see the panorama that this law would leave us. I have a friend, a acquaintance, who in his moment told me that he would protect all the animals that could be baptized, uh, baptize in the sense of giving them name: it doesn't matter Mimi, Lulu, Yoko, Rambo, but that everything else to the casserole. Everything else to the casserole, he said. So, I think this man would be happy to see a little bit of the bill put forward by the People's Group, because it includes, within the scope of the law, all rabbits, except those destined for food; it includes birds, except poultry, to protect a little bit the turkey of Thanksgiving and the bonnet of Christmas. We are protected by ornamental aquatic animals, assuming that, except for the Monty Python, no one is going to eat the colored fish. And we are protected by invertebrates, all invertebrates: cockroaches, ants, termites, bugs, lice and all kinds of pet animals that everyone wants to carry on, except – except for, attention! – bees and bumblebees – which I don't know what they will have done to them – and here I have to recognize the fine clairvoyance that they have had; molluscs and crustaceans, it won't be that the cicadas, necoras, centillos, perceivings or oysters that we can have at the table when they invite us to eat for free. And this is what we're going to protect with this law. This is what we're going to protect with this law! Of course, in the face of this situation, the People's Group leaves completely unprotected animals such as donkeys, ponies or horses, which we can see, more than once, on any farm, loaded with chains, ropes, ropes... who hurt them, malnourished, sick, in the weather, without water. All of these remain unprotected, and were protected by the 1993 law. Nor will it protect this proposal of law of the People's Party to those cows, those calves... of less than 60 kilos, which sometimes are simply months, which are abused in a lot of public shows on our streets and squares. They're gonna stay out, too. In this way, the Popular Group makes a kind of Noah's Ark of two speeds, where we have animals that go in the preferred class and other animals that go in the tourist class, and each one will have a different protection. And this is very similar – I have to say – to the way the People's Party has to do politics also for human beings, also for human beings. But, in this case, we are talking about animals and there is one thing that has particularly bothered me, and it is the question of zero sacrifice. You say you're proposing a zero sacrifice, and that's not true. They replace zero sacrifice with euthanasia, and provide an exception to euthanasia in situations of emergency or danger. Emergency or danger. But they don't say who's going to declare either the emergency or the danger. And you know – or you should know – that most of the abandoned dogs are potentially dangerous dogs, which are the ones being sacrificed in our kennels because no one wants to adopt them and those dogs, to the extent that they are declared dangerous, will continue to be sacrificed, with this law. Therefore, you do not defend the zero sacrifice: you replace it with a permitted euthanasia. But, of course, the most striking thing about this law is – I imagine you imbued a little with the spirit of your new national leader, to consider that, as Spain is going to be bigger and more free; it is going to be all the same – that we can bring a law from Murcia to Basque, pass it through the proofreader and, where Murcia puts it, put Basque Country. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unbelievable! It seems to me, of course, to be disrespectful to this House; of course, not to our group, but to this House. But, of course, when you get to see this law well, you find it with delicious, memorable gazebos... like the one you mention in Colombia and colombophilia. And why don't you mention the gamers' hunt? Because, in Murcia, colombophilia has a tradition since the 14th century; it has a regulation that regulates it and has more than 100 groups federated, more than 100 federated associations, which are dedicated to colombophilia. But in Euskadi, I'd say there are more game hunters than doves. And some of those game hunters, of course, have been involved in drafting this law. And I have to say, moreover, that, to the extent that they undeservedly copy Murcia's law, they do not even bother to change the sphere of competition. And they completely emptied of content and emptied of powers to outlaws. They give all the powers to the municipalities and those that had the deputies are passed on to the departments of the Government. Have the people of the PP learned that you have emptied the Alawse Chamber of Competencies to give them to the Basque Government? For me, it is completely surprising how to get involved in the competition division, considering that we have a Statute of Autonomy and a Law of Historical Territories, which mark the competences of each institution. As I say, our group is not going to support this bill, solely for reasons of content. We're not going to get into any other issues. I am grateful, however, for your words to Mr Prieto; but what we really want in this Parliament is to improve things, to improve laws... You can't accept a law that goes backwards. If he doesn't move forward, unless he stays the way he is. You said, "You are going to deny this proposal." It's just that we have to do it. We have to, because the opposite is going backwards. And that our group won't allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u10	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u11	Mr. Prieto, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Becerra, I don't have to join a project that they tell me and tell me they're working; because, as you know and I also told you, we were also working. You know that perfectly well. I don't think anyone here has the exclusivity to present the initiatives, which seems to have the exclusivity and that I have to stop my activity because someone tells me that they are working. We all work: we all work in the fields; we all have come across different areas of the sector and associations dedicated to the protection and protection of animals, to explain to us that this must be changed. And we each draw up a text under the conditions that we consider appropriate to improve the law. You can do all the chotheo – for gamers, go to Soria, who probably is there too – but what were you talking to me about, Mr. Becerra? That he wants to recreate himself, that he wants to recreate himself? Recreate to satiety; I don't care. I present a work as respectable as the one that says you're doing, as respectable as that. Of course, we have nothing here today, and then, as I am working, everyone has to stop, because I, who am now a preferential in dealing with the Government, because I stop the activity of the whole world. Hey, awesome! I've never seen him before, but what's this about? And here are some things that can actually be improved. Hey! The Government has introduced an energy efficiency law, Mr Prieto, and 40 amendments have been tabled by the groups supporting the Government. 40 amendments! More than articles. What's going on? What's going on? That's right, other people's, no. The others have to be immaculate, and match their criteria Difficult, very difficult! To agree with Mr Becerra's view, which is very difficult, but we have raised it. Is there a problem? Is there a problem? We have not emptied the outside parliaments, Mr Becerra. I've explained to you some aspect of what we've modified, because we consider it to be actions... We consider them to be prohibitions, that is, they should be generalized, such as pitch shot, for example. Well, yes, because it's an animal book abuse. And that there are some terms that can be improved, indeed, but what is the problem? But what is this about exclusivity? Exclusiveness, for what? To present initiatives here. Hey, a little bit of respect. A little respect. Mr. Prieto, okay, you say you don't like... Well, if it's your full right not to admit it. We have done a job; we have brought it and, if we like it, they say so, but with respect, with respect, without failing to work others. As worthy is my work as that of Mr Becerra, as worthy are the associations that support our work as the associations with which they say they are working; they say, I don't know, we will see. And with the same criteria and having the same scope of application, the same scope of application, our law as the current law, the same scope, the other thing is that they are put... But what is the scope? What's the articulate that's worth? What is the form and scope of our law? That I have already told you, that is article 2 and the law in force. The same, the same. Don't recreate, don't recreate, it's not worth it. One thing is to make reference to some animals and another thing is to recreate and gloat. We are not going to refer to everyone, but the scope is what it is, and it is Article 2. Therefore, I think that we should say no, and I have to make, in the end, a rather improved argument in any case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Octave. Mr Price mustn't speak. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u13	Mrs López de Ocariz, you would have the perfect right to present your work, if you had done any work. What you have limited yourself to is to take the law of Murcia, change Murcia for the Basque Country and present it. Moreover, they have introduced a cut-off Murcia law and have removed, for example, the question of feline colonies, which is a matter that in Euskadi is causing serious problems in many places, to the point that, due to lack of regulation, in Donostia there are two veterinarians charged with the way they have to deal with the question of feline colonies. You, not only have not done any work, but what you have brought here is a cut-off Murcia law. If they had done a job – and even if they have not – it is perfectly respectable to me. I don't have any exclusivity. Neither I nor the Government have it; that is why we are here and that is why you can put forward a proposal for a law. I have merely criticized the content of this bill. And not only have we done so by the groups that are here; not only has the Government done so through an opinion. The intercys association, not-for-profit, of the state level, composed of professionals working in the field of law (judges, prosecutors, lawyers, prosecutors, agents of forces and security forces and forest agents of various autonomous communities) has warned, through a press release, of the serious impairment in the legal-administrative protection of animals in the Basque Country that would provoke the proposed law of the People's Party. This is what I have just referred to in my speech. She may have thought it was funny. I had two possibilities to deal with this debate today: in a playful way or with a rascal. I'd rather do it in a playful way, for my benefit, yours and the whole House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u15	So he didn't consider it. Next, vote. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u16	Yes, thank you very much and very briefly. Our vote today was rejected, and the reason is very simple: We are already working in a text of law, and it seems to us, as has been said, to bring in a law copied from Murcia, to bring a competition where there was, as it were, a struggle, because it is not fair, is it not? Yes, in the former law, and in this, we have taken care of the common welfare of animals; and we have had meetings with the agents, and it is true that we must assume that with us, while in this case, Podemos has himself become the leader of this work, Mr. de Becerra has taken possession of the leadership, and, in a very good way, we should have said "Mizillady" and have invited all the rest of us to join in some way, and given us time to do our contributions. Here, even with the sects supported by the government, this matter was spoken from the beginning: and that it was much better to do a work of consensuation than to compete amongst us, and to give us a bad impression. Horretan ari ginen; nik uste dut Alderdi Popularra was on time in Egypt inflated zegoela. Ez du izan nahi, eta niretzako, this is a clear case of an attempt to advance – I will no longer say whether on the left or on the right, but, of course, on a continuous basis – in a place where we were working and are working together, and so much is working together and is working well that today we have a text that is much more complete and much more tailored to the needs than we have now, with regard to the protection of animals and their welfare. In that sense, our vote has obviously been that no, and from here on, all we have left is to make the invitation to continue participating in those good things that may also be included in your bill, so that they join the work that is already being done and among all of us we can make a renewal, an update... of laws in the sense that it is necessary. So, well, in this case, less competition and more collaboration, which is what all the social actors who are concerned about it are asking us to do. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u18	the head of the table, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. I must confess that the voting against this legal proposition has made me feel a little sorry for me, because I was sorry to admit a law in this field which I would like to vote; but I am sorry to say: This is not worth it. In 1993, this Parliament passed the first Basque Animal Protection Act, which was and continues to be a good law and was, at the time, advanced. That law, by the way, was adopted unanimously, an aspect which has given it greater value and which has given it, as we have seen, temporary stability. 25 years and there it remains in force. I also say this with a certain degree of pride, while at the same time with disquiet. The pride is that it is up to me, on the part of the Government, to lead the drafting of that bill and to represent it and discuss it in the parliamentary presentation. Disquieting, because it's been a long time. And that time are leaves of the calendar, therefore, which have also passed through this body and through this soul. But as good as it is, it is likely that in 25 years things have changed in our reality and our perception of animal protection, which means that legal texts are likely to have to be adapted, and therefore we would not feel it wrong to deal with a new draft legislation. Now, if the current law is so long-lasting and the whole world speaks well of it, the logical thing would be to make a new law, starting from what has been in force so far and copying, as far as possible, its own legal structure. If so, it is because, in order to take care of its content in detail in competition matters that have both the deputies and the municipalities in animal protection, which is a lot, the text was worked intensively with both institutions; in fact, a mayor and parliamentarian participated in the parliamentary presentation of that law. What the People's Group is presenting to us today may seem voluntary, but it is short. Obviously the law currently in force and its structure, and we know that neither Eudel nor the foreign parliaments have heard of it. I know that if the preliminary draft was accepted in parliamentary proceedings, in debates, in amendments, etc., and so on, we could correct it, but it does not seem right to present a text without notice or prior negotiation. I say again that I am sorry, but it is that, since the preliminary draft, we have had no news from the People's Group. In other words, we have refused because the project has not been discussed and negotiated, neither with us nor with the public institutions of the Basques, although they are to maintain a great part of the work given them by the law. We have denied it because it seems unfair to us to introduce a law-text without prejudice, and to ask without any explanation to protect others. And our vote is not because it is not a legal text even worked here in Euskadi – it has been said – with interested people from Euskadi. To this bill, now that it is fashionable to see what politicians copy each other, we have submitted it to a plagiarism detection program, and bingo!, has given us that it is a copy of a law passed in Murcia, as has already been said. And man, with all my respect to Murcia, we started from more advanced legislation; our institutional organization is different, and our social perception of the subject, for surely it is also remarkably different; neither better nor worse: different. As an example, this legal text that has been presented to us does not at any time, throughout its 47 transitional and final articles and provisions, not once the word "advisory department" Even this bill speaks, at some point, of the Official College of Veterinarys of the Basque Country, which does not exist; in Murcia there is surely the College of Veterinarys of Murcia, but here there are three colleges of territorial veterinarians. Without going into more depth or into the multitude of flaws in the text arising from not having been drafted thinking of Euskadi, I think there are more than enough reasons to reject this bill. If, moreover, we consider the fact known to all, including the PP, that we have been negotiating a bill in this same area for months, promoted by Elkarrekin Podemos and that, without prior notice or negotiation of any kind, we I have the feeling that, if Parliament, which is already becoming a barrier, accepts that one of the few supports that we have left, which is courtesy, know-how and know-how, is one of the most important things that we can do. Afternoon we would leave this chamber with mud to our ears. For this reason, our group has voted no to this bill, which does not mean that, with this vote, we are saying a yes to the draft that wants to introduce Elkarrekin Podemos. There's work left, there's negotiation left and there's our best disposition, but there's still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Second point on the subject list: "Pull up the idea as a parlamental team, in all the public contracts, at least 1,200, in order to guarantee the minimum wage. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madam Ugarte, the representative of the EHG, is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u20	Good morning, everyone. Today's proposal, I think it's a very interesting proposition. Not that it has occurred to us, but that in the Basque Country there will be many people waiting for this kind of initiative. For if this enterprise were to be accepted today, many people's lives would be changed and changed to the better. Then, in order not to admit this enterprise, I think of two kinds of rice, or two pretexts, or one excuse, and the other reason: A legal excuse, and I believe that in this time I shall be able to prove that there can be no legal excuse, because the proposal which we bring to-day is just, because it is a trusted proposition, and can be managed by legal judgment, and I do not say: The Chief Court of the EAE says, and the Supreme Court says that because we've proved it because we've had the pot burning and that pot isn't burned: it boils well and it's viable. And the other, independently of the excuse, remains political will, and I have less hope here: but I was curious to hear what political or legal arguments are, to say no to this proposition. EH is obsessed with the quality of the job, not only with the creation of the job, but with its quality, because it seems to us that today, today, there are more social stages in this country, their weekly, their everyday, their monthly... people who can't get ahead. and we all know that the degree of life is not equal in Jaen and EAE; it is certain that now we hear beautiful sounds from Madrid, about 9.00 euros; but it is true that this music is not enough for the level of life in the EAE, and that we do not help by the arts. What's going on? For these last years, the Reformations of Raxoi, the various reforms, have had a very negative influence on the labours of the workers, and that the workers are fighting against it. But even in that case, public administration has two options. Public administration is at present the principal employee at EAE, who is the principal employer, it is calculated that the workers who work for the public administration are about 500,000 persons; it is easy to say, but there are many; 50,000 people, with their families, their children, their couples, their parents, or the different persons they maintain. And what the public administration can do is two things: Looking at the reforms of Raxoi as an excuse, this is the educistacism here and elsewhere, which is what he is doing today, or what he can do when he can take action and see what legal action he can do, what legal actions he can do, and what political decisions he can make to improve the conditions of all these employees, because the Administration, the public sector, has a moral duty, with all the workers of ethical duty, because what we're doing is to create a two-rate administration, the administration of the two Cardinall Administration: Public administration, that is to say, a public sector with official administration and conditions, and on the other hand an administrative administration is subcontradicted, and is in a state of complete prevention. And, as I said, it's very simple, and that's what we're doing today: We can't do anything, Madrid decided, the ultraactivity of the agreements has been suspended in many sectors, the reference sector and the frame of reference work is the state, and we can't do anything about it. And then we shall see what is the quality of this administration in such services as these, for we cannot forget that the quality of the job and the quality of the service are wholly connected with the quality of the service, and the examples are many: New Yesterday We all know the influence of the toggle of the workers and the lack of stability of the workers in the service: how you've got it. That's where we have the Gipuean Resides on the brakes. On Monday I went to the Berga court, and our garbage bag was full of garbage because the workers are on strike with garbage bags. That is to say, how many subordinate workers, who are obliged to give a public service, and who cannot supply public services with a quality, and who are not able to give them a proper condition, seeing that this service is wanting in the people? So, seeing this, there are some initiatives that have started during the time, and I've been one of these witnesses, and I think we can work on a legal road. To avoid this in some way. And the proposal we make is very simple, and that which we have agreed with Poseidon together. One, to all subcontradicted corporations, to all, to apply, to all, and to apply, whether their agreement, their agreement, or the agreement of the country, or what has been made up of the last covenant, had not been in force at the present day, as we are now discussing, because we shall have this difficulty in many sectors, that is, if the terms of wages, which they impose, are less than 1,200, we must plan a work of 1,200. That is to say, when we make public litigations, so far as the Administration is a Contractor, the Administration does not need to apply the lavitial fluid; he may demand, as far as he is a Contractor, to establish certain particular conditions as an organ against him. This is very easy to plan technical conditions, administrative conditions, and on these administrative and technical conditions, specific conditions, and to plan certain special conditions. And that's very common with the subrogation. What do we do with the subrogation? When we have business contracts and workers are subrogated, we list workers' wages, we make white lists, nameless, but speculating the salary of each worker. Esango duzue Basque Competition Authority And it is true that there are certain sentences in Europe (because of Lavale) Rüffeste and so on, that even such cases are not to be met with; that is, the conditions of the workers' work are limited by competitiveness, and that the determination of the conditions of the workers is limited by competition, and consequently the administration would meet with a legal problem. But it is true, as I have said before, that the Eucalal Agency opposed us, not that around a Typian Committee, which was composed of the Chinese clauses, were hung, but all the rest, when we put into action the 4/2013th of July, 17th of July, which was the last of the contract, or the contracting application. And it's true that the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Spain, was right in 2006 to the Giant Fordun of Gipu, despite the Euscal Agency of Companity. And what is here maintained is, against these two European sentences, that the Administration, as far as it is a Contractor, is possible, and that it is profitable for the Contract of this kind, that the Administration has the power to establish the conditions of this kind as a Contractor of this kind. So if the administration can guarantee the workers at least 1,200 euro wages, why don't we do that? Why don't we do that? When we know that many and many Covenants are descended from 1.200 euros, many of them are below 1,000, and many often, as in the case of clerks, or as in the case of gardeners, we have in the case of the contractes. Well, the only thing we have left behind is political will, and that's what we're here to ask for. Let political will remain a political will, all the public contract which is made by the 'Medon'-all at least 1,200 euros for the full ethinctued, obviously, because we understand from beneath it that such contracts are not of quality and service that is offered. At the same time, what we're asking for is a review of the policy of the sub-contradictory chain, because it seems to us that the Administration... We all know that the public sector is very stiff, it's not flexible, and that when you're in charge of a government you have often trouble managing things, just because we know it's not flexible, and that it's often too bureaucratic, to speed up politics and carry on government programs. And then, it's often convenient... I confess thus that it is necessary, in some particular cases, to appeal to private enterprises, and to make a private contract. But I think, too, that there is too much abuse, and that it's obviously a great tenedity because of financial reasons, because these budgets are cheaper and cheaper at the expense of workers. And I think this is one thing that must be avoided. Then, as well as another thing we ask, which obviously did not seem appropriate to you, because your plan is against political purposes, but it seems a pity to me. Finally, I'd like to mention to the Social Party, because the Social Party voted for us in the gym. He voted for it and defended it. And it is very difficult for me to understand that what you think is defenseable in the gym is not defenseable to the EAE level and that the alignment with EAJ in all respects so intimate. It is a pity that, instead of preserving dignity as a political party, instead of marking its mark on itself in several respects, it is at last beneath the EAJ, inclusus, in the level of conversation, and with the faculty of resolving to leave EAJ. And I think, to say this, one last thing, two last words... I should like to do them: One, you will tell me that there is a law in the EAE, a law about social clauses, and yesterday I went over to examine that law, and I must confess that you are capable of making laws which say nothing: To make laws that are not consistent, to make laws that are not executables, and I would ask them to make laws which are not actually executables, not to-day, because it is not in this enterprise to-day, but I should require, indeed, to make a law on the level of the EAE, a law which the social clause will carefully perform, a law which will hold good to the quality of employment, a law which will be conditioned by a law, and then, while these contracts remain alive, that is, as long as they are connected with the administrative administration, is to make a law for continuing its measures. Because that's not what you're doing. The fifth article which I read is a law of radians, a very simple law, a law of three or 201616, which deserves no respect, is that which puts a treaty in those minor conditions, that is, a state of agreement, that is, 700 euros, 800 euros, and so on; Those workers who are going to win. We don't care. In fact, we're all dressed up. And then it says that the Administration will have the power to ask for information and to continue the contract. I'm sure we haven't read anything like that in the media or in this frame, that no tracking is done. And I also believe that a serious law is absolutely indispensable to continuing the life of those contracts. Following up for how many hours these workers are at work, when they're booking, just follow their longings... That is to say, when the Administration makes public contracts, all those companies that depend on it are the client, that is to say, the Administration, the public sector... To give a good service, to give a social service, and also to make sure that they guarantee worthy conditions of workers. And I think, even in this sense, that we must add more enterprises, because this law remains too short. I'd ask you to reorganize your attitude, I don't think this would have much economic impact on public administration... I don't think so. I think he'd have a big impact on the Basque Country staff class. I think it's worth while, I think, that it's an initiative, legalally perfectly compatible, as I said before, and I don't think there's any excuse for saying no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u22	Thank you. Good morning, congressmen. Well, before the initiative brought by the EH Bildu group, Mrs Ugarte, well, I think Mrs Ugarte herself was aware that, with our coalition, it would be easy to understand; because, of course, any kind of initiative whose objectives and contents are the improvements in working conditions of our class, of the working class, because there, of course, we will be found in the Elkarrekin Pode. It's been so simple, I've only had a phone conversation with Mrs. Ugarte for about two or three minutes, and we've exchanged an email. That has been all that has been hard for us to reach agreement, because we were, indeed, faced with an initiative to improve the working conditions of the workers, in this case of an important sector, of those who work in contracts for the public administration, and therefore there they will always meet us in the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition. In addition, in this case, this initiative too, to move forward, would not only mean an improvement in the working conditions of thousands of workers, but, in our view, would also mean an improvement in the services provided by the public administration. Because we are absolutely convinced and convinced that, at better working conditions, the workers also develop work better. Where it was more difficult to find us it was with the amendment to the whole that they presented, together, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi; because, although it was a small amendment – it only has one paragraph –... In spite of that, it seems to me to be an absolutely extensive amendment, for what it says and for what it means. It was a paragraph, four or five lines, which for what they mean, I think with one and a half lines was enough. Basically, what the Government is urged to do is to comply with the law. That's basically what they're telling you: enforce the law. In relation to the implementing conventions, there would be more missing, namely, they are implementing conventions. If they are implementing agreements, companies are obliged to apply them. And it is sad that the Government has to be asked to implement the agreements in companies that are working for the public administration, so they have to be complied with. And then she was talking about the law Mrs. Ugarte referred to. Logically, a law that speaks of social clauses in public procurement, therefore, logically, has to be complied with. It was therefore difficult to find an intermediate point between the two initiatives. It seems to us that public procurement is one of the main tools we have in the administration to ensure compliance with the values for which public authorities have to ensure: equality, social cohesion, etc. Because it represents a very large percentage of our economy, around 15%, and therefore it seems to us serious that it is being accepted and used, also in the case of our Autonomous Community – and therefore we included the subject of subcontracting – a tool designed to be used in all the countries of our environment, and used to degrade working conditions and save costs and increase the profits of companies, which is that of subcontracting. This is done in the private sector, but it is also being done in companies that contract with the public administration. We think that the employment contracts that ultimately depend on the public administration have to be at the centre; that is, and I have also said it once and have repeated it in committee since the beginning of the legislature: for us, the public administration is also a tool to generate jobs and to generate good jobs. The objective of public administrations and public services should not be only – of course, but also, but not only – to generate services to citizens; it must also be, together with this, to generate an important public employment sector, which guarantees decent working conditions. That is why we are always in favour of enlargement. – let's say – the civil servant, to have a powerful public administration... We know that here there are fundamental ideological differences with other groups. We think that the public administration can and should do that, but we also know that the public administration, on certain occasions, has to contract with private companies. And we believe that, when engaged with private companies, the public administration as a contractor is obliged to ensure that all those who work in those companies do so in good condition. And, therefore, in the face of such an initiative, and which can obviously be put into practice, we think that there is no reason to oppose it, without collaborating with that strategy which only seeks to maximize the benefit of companies through the impoverishment of the working conditions of the workers, because that is what happens in reality. The Public Procurement Act also establishes three levels for contracting: first, direct contracting must prevail; secondly, through public enterprises; and thirdly, contracting with private enterprises and subcontracting. And what we see is that in the reality of Euskadi this is not respected. In the reality of Euskadi, the method of the continuous procurement of multiple services, which could be assumed by the public administration, if it were developed in order to be able to supply them, has been used on a regular basis – I asked Mr Erkoreka once again on this issue too. And what can't be, in any way, is that this is used to always have companies hired and then subcontracting with increasingly worse working conditions. Therefore, in the transaction that we have signed with the EH Bildu group, there are three things that can be put into practice perfectly – explained Mrs Ugarte; moreover, there is some judgment –: the conditions under which the public administration must contract with companies, in order to guarantee decent working conditions, can be demanded. Not only can implementation agreements be required – because this, logically, must be complied with – but it can also be required in the leaflets that apply the sectoral conventions, the latest sectoral conventions, because we know that the labour reform caused some of them to fall when before those conventions did not fall. Minimum wages may be required, which are deemed necessary, because European legislation also talks about these types of issues, because public procurement must also take social issues into account. And, of course, the sub-contracting issue can be addressed as it is not being addressed at this time, and we know that it would be very difficult, as we said in our initial amendment, to eliminate all existing sub-contracts. But in the usual practice of public administrations – and in this neither the Basque Autonomous Administration nor that of the deputies nor that of the municipalities are an exception – the trend is always to save cost at the expense of the labor of the workers. And this can be reversed by measures such as those raised in this non-legislative proposal. What, of course, does not seem to us to contribute anything – I will not say that it is wrong, but that it does not contribute anything – is to tell the Government to fulfil what is already its obligations. And, furthermore, do not even try to tell him how he will do it, how the Government will do it to ensure that those implementing agreements are complied with. Because I do not know whether the spirit is the one that moves, for example, Mrs Artolazabal, who, when in a committee I referred to her about the fraud that the Patronal uses with the contracts in practice, her only answer was that, if I knew any fraud of this kind, I would report it to the Labour Inspectorate; everything was entrusted to the Labour Inspectorate, when the public administration has a responsibility with that. We therefore believe that this is a good initiative and, of course, we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u24	Buenos días. Good morning, everyone. We are again debating today, in this plenary, a non-legislative proposal that was registered there in February of this year, in which EH Bildu says he shares the priority that the Basque Government has to promote quality employment. That is the basis of your proposal. And I must say, as I have done on other occasions, that this is a priority that the Socialists share. And let's see if we share it, that we incorporate it into the government agreement we signed with the Nationalist Party, to give support as a axis of action to the coalition government. In this Parliament – you know this – we have discussed on many occasions, and we have also agreed with you on various initiatives, on employment, from both the public and private spheres, or from the perspective of generating employment and opportunities, or on the basis of the quality of the employment to be generated. And, in this Parliament, we have been able to declare, together with EH Bildu, the need for a general increase in wages and we have urged both the Basque Government and the social partners to agree on wage increases in their various areas of competence that will improve the working conditions of Basque workers. And we have committed ourselves and will continue to strive to promote social dialogue in Euskadi, because we consider it to be one of the best tools for improving the working conditions of workers. And, Mrs Ugarte, as far as public procurement is concerned – you have said and it is true – this Parliament passed a law, on 3/2016; that was the vote of the Socialist Party. And it is true, too, that the Socialist Party votes were counted, when at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, together with EH Bildu, we carried out an out-of-court rule for the introduction of social clauses in works contracts. And here they will find us on the road always. Because we believe that what we have to do... – and that's what that law or that outlaw rule of the Chamber says and that's what the law of the Basque Parliament says – is that public administrations must ensure the working conditions that assist workers and that they are recognized, either in legal rules, or in the collective agreement, because that's where the workers' rights are basically collected. You know that in the new State Public Sector Contracts Act, although you have not mentioned it, you have also made progress in this direction. And the aim of these social clauses, both in your foral Gipuzkoa rule – which you have put into value – and from the Basque Government, when they are introduced into public contracts, is that it is nothing other than guaranteeing quality in employment, and, although you think I have, Mr Jon, Mr Sánchez, in the beginning, what we have is respect for the conditions agreed between the employer and the workers' representatives in the reference sector. And it will seem to you that that is nothing, but it is that today they do not respect each other; that is why the Labour Inspectorate has to work and that is why we must demand a proactive attitude of the Administration when it hires, because it is true that good working conditions do what they do are to have a quality of the services to be provided, with a quality towards the citizenry. I know that the proposing group knows that it fully understands what I am saying: it knows that we are on this road in Gipuzkoa; we are in the Basque Parliament, and we have just met in Navarre, in the Navarro Parliament. As an example to remind you that only five months ago, with the Socialist Party's votes, the rest of the groups supporting the Navarra Government, including Elkarrekin, joined us in adopting the Foral Public Contracts Act, a law which stood out, as a novelty, on the day of its adoption, which, in terms of work, was aimed at guaranteeing the quality of employment, through – which you think is so simple – the obligation to respect sectoral agreements, establishing that the wages set out in the nearest sectoral agreement in force or in ultraactivity will be the minimums to be addressed. This is a law five months ago, agreed by the parliamentary arc that today brings this initiative here. A law in which – I believe it will not be forgotten, Mrs Ugarte – they do not mention the minimum of the 1,200 euros; I say it will not be forgotten. They are also aware that, between the registration of their proposal and the day on which we discuss it, in all these months, there have been other events which are also important and which should also be noted: Because, in June 2018, a few months ago, it was signed, between the employers and the unions, something that has value, which is the Fourth State Collective Bargaining Agreement, in which it has been agreed, among the agents that it has to be agreed, employers and workers' representatives, that there will be an annual increase of up to 3% in the coming years until 2020 and that a minimum wage of EUR 14,000 per year will be progressively established, with the 2020 target, i.e. in monthly terms, employers and trade unions are agreeing to EUR 1,166.66. He knows that the socialists – because I have repeated it on numerous occasions from this rostrum, and I do not think I will tire of saying it again – believe and defend that it is in this area of collective bargaining between the representatives of the working class and the companies in which they must negotiate and agree on the different working conditions in which they must develop employment contracts, and that is precisely what the social partners have done in that IV Agreement, which, now, with an active and proactive attitude, will have to bring to each of the sectoral agreements that are being negotiated or fallen, a salary of 1,166.66 by 2020. I do not know whether you, with this initiative, here today, are trying to amend the plan to trade unions and say that 1,166.66 by 2020 is not a decent wage and that here 1,200. I mean, we go, we get out of the parliamentary bow, and we become union representatives, and we say at least 1,200. You're useless... well, we're not going that way. I know that you, like us, know... Mrs Larraitz Ugarte has tried to tell us here that there was some judgment of the Supreme Court and the High Court of Justice, but you know, as your colleague Mr Casanova knows, that he told us here in February and I will quote you textually, because it was very short. He says: "It is not – referring to the Basque Government – in his hand, by decree, to promulgate a general increase in wages". And they know it, neither widespread nor minimal. They know this and therefore I ask them: what is the purpose of this proposal? Of course, improve workers' conditions, no; fill in 10 minutes in this rostrum, yes. Are there tools to achieve a minimum wage? Of course there are. Yes, of course. The first one I have already explained to you: collective agreements. That is where the minimum wages to be paid are set according to the different category in question. And what has to be done is to be fulfilled. And one of the problems that often occurs in hiring, public or private, is that sometimes they are not fulfilled. The least that would have to be done is to comply. That's why you think it's a minor target, but it's not so minor. The second one, what is it? The second to set a minimum wage is the interprofessional minimum wage, something that I'm sure is ringing at you these days and that you say it sounds like nice music. Well, what we Socialists advocate is that these minimum wages are a powerful tool to help prevent poverty, promote more dynamic wage growth and, when we presented ourselves to the elections in 2015 and 2016, we did so with a proposal to progressively reach a minimum wage of 1,000 euros per month in 14 pay, from that capacity that is held within the General Administration of the State to set the interprofessional minimum wage. Because we believe – and I believe we share it with all of you – that wages must guarantee a decent standard of living. This is the second way; this is, and it is not another way. And it marks the agreement reached with Podemos to set the interprofessional minimum wage for the next year, for 2019, at 900 euros per month, something that seems to have no economic impact, but which has an expected economic impact of 340 million euros. Mrs Ugarte, I believe that your group has an unbeatable opportunity for us to make progress in this, which I have just told you, of the minimum interprofessional wage of 900 euros, that music which is pleasant to you, with your two votes in the Congress of Deputies, in order to improve the conditions of the workers. It is an improvement that is not only intended with the interprofessional minimum wage, because, in this parliamentary agreement, as the spokesman of Podemos will also know, it is spoken and it is written, that before the end of 2018, the most harmful aspects of the labor reform of 2012 in the area of collective bargaining will be repealed. For what? In order to regulate an extension of the regime of non-expiration of collective agreements. And also to end the reform, to modify or complete the parliamentary process of amending Article 42 of the Workers' Statute, which refers to ensuring equal conditions of subcontracting. Mrs Ugarte, from that rostrum, from the rostrum of the Congress of Deputies, with those votes, with the votes that you have in the Congress of Deputies, and not in this House or with the votes of this House, is where we can really put an end to the situation of weakness and precariousness in which the workers find themselves today. From there, gentlemen of EH Bildu, and not from here. That is why I am putting you in a position to be useful where you can and to support those measures that say here that they sound good to you. What I am offering you is the amendment that we have agreed, which is not an amendment that does not have a specific objective; it has it, and that the existing sectoral conventions which are applicable are respected. We cannot set up EUR 1,200; we are not workers' representatives; it is not our area of competence. But it is true that, if they agree to a collective agreement, it has to be, as I say, sacred for the fulfilment of both public and private contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. A minimum wage of 1,200 euros only in the public contracts of Euskadi, is what brings us here today. It could have been 900, 1,000, 1,500, but you've brought 1,200; you've decided. Only in public contracts and through them, apart from what can be said by collective agreements, because you say, "and, in any case, 1,200 euros"; what can be said by agreements, negotiating tables... And, in addition, you determine what the implementing agreement has to be. All this, we understand that without having made an assessment with due responsibility, without having properly assessed all the implications that these measures you propose may have, mainly in the socio-economic reality of this country, but mainly in the thousands, which you say, jobs affected by public procurement. So, from a legal point of view, your initiative is doomed to failure, because it involves the modification of labour legislation, a competition that, today, although we might like, is not in Euskadi. Nor is there the possibility in Euskadi of reversing a labour reform, for example, that which we did in 2012, which we may not like – which we do not like, in fact – but we do not have the capacity to reverse it in this Parliament. But the curious thing is that you, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, do not ask in Madrid what you ask here; you do not ask in Madrid, where is the competition, what you ask here in Euskadi, that we do not have it. They know, as I have told you, that their initiative is not legally possible; it is not possible with the existing legal framework: On the one hand, you determine what the convention has to be, regardless of what the rules say, and you alter the priority of the sources of the rules. And, on the other hand, Euskadi – and you know it perfectly well – does not have the competence to establish a minimum wage nor does public procurement have the competence to establish a minimum wage. You know perfectly well, Mrs Ugarte, that public procurement does not have the competence to establish or to impose a minimum wage – it does not. And, on the other hand, it seems that it should not be done only in public procurement; it must be done at a general level, and that is through labour legislation. There can therefore be no traps; back doors cannot be used, and thus this position ratifies Community law and European case law; in particular, Directive 24 on public procurement. The same directive, which is about recruitment, says that recruitment is not competent to establish a minimum wage. Whether we like it or not, this is so; this is no excuse, ez will say aitzakiak, Ugarte anderea. And we, of course, move in reality; wishes, we all have. That would be Aitzakia. You said that you knew that you were going to appoint Law 3/2016, for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement, approved by this Parliament; I knew that you were going to also appoint the Gipuzkoa foral rule and, indeed, if at present, after the judgments you have appointed from the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the Supreme Court, I think they are coming to say the same; I believe that your standard of reference and the standard adopted in this Parliament, at this time, say the same thing. And you know it. And, of course, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party has told you, that outlaw did not set a minimum wage, and if it did not, it would be for something. You, as much as you had capacity, did not introduce a minimum wage, and now you want to introduce it here. We share that, through public procurement, many social policies can be developed, within the narrow margin left by the basic legislation of the State, and so has the Basque Government years ago, which has already started the road and is moving forward, and this Parliament in the same vein approved that law, which you knew I was going to appoint, Law 3/2016 of 7 April, for the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement. But, of course, that, that possibility of including social clauses, is not what you are asking here. What you were asking goes beyond that capacity, goes beyond our competence. And that's no excuse. That's a reality. And you should propose things responsibly. Because, too, I do not know if you where you currently govern are going to impose these concrete measures that you are asking for here today. Are you going to impose these concrete measures that you are asking for here today? Are they going to demand in all public contracts a minimum wage of 1,200 euros? All contracts, regardless of the nature of the contractor? Are you going to impose 1,200 euros on them? They're brave, huh?They're brave. I would, of course, walk, act... with more responsibility. Therefore, our vote cannot be different. Our vote will be against, mainly for the legal reasons set out above. But we also find reasons in the social sphere. That is why, as I said at the beginning, we understand that they have not been sufficiently valued. They have not particularly appreciated the implication that the implementation of these measures could have in all the thousands, which you say, thousands of jobs that are affected by public procurement. And, on the other hand, when they ask and if it's so good, if this is the optimal, if this is the desired or the right thing, I don't know why they don't ask for it also for the whole labour market. I don't know why they stick to public procurement. We would, of course, advocate covering the entire labour market. And we also agree that the wages and working conditions of all women workers will be improved. Of course we agree. We advocate decent and quality employment. It is one of the premises of this Government and of this parliamentary group, but things must be done responsibly and you want to give a distorted picture of the reality of this country and of government action. And the Government when it acts, and also in public procurement, acts subject to and subject to legality. It is concerned and concerned about the working conditions of women workers, whether they are self-employed or are workers of companies. And so we understand the exemplaryness that you demand in the compromise amendment. On the other hand, as far as subcontracting is concerned, we are glad that, finally, in Elkarrekin's proposal, we can eliminate – initially asked to eliminate – subcontracting, mastered wisdom, and at least, it has been eliminated, it has been removed... 'eliminate'. But you keep saying control. Control, we agree; in fact it's done, it's controlled. But reduce it to the maximum. And we understand that subcontracting in this country is necessary, if we look at the business fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is an essential characteristic of this country. And you presented – HE Bildu presented – this proposal, this initiative... In February, eight months ago, and all of a sudden they're bringing her in now, eight months later. The truth is that we wondered, when we saw the inclusion in the plenary, what would be the reason to bring it now. And the truth is that we have interpreted that it is because it is intended to coincide with the agreement that they have adopted in Madrid 15 days ago Podemos and the Socialist Party, where they agree 900 euros of minimum wage. We understand that that is the real reason for bringing this initiative here today. And in that respect, we must not forget that we are surprised by Elkarrekin Podemos' position. In Madrid, Podemos has signed €900 15 days ago and, today, Elkarrekin Podemos requests €900. The truth is, we understand that something doesn't get married. That is why, as we have told you, we understand that the real intention of the initiative is not its literality, but to bring an easy text, an easy headline and that they knew that our answer would be no. But not on a whim; not because it can't be right now here or right now. Not by the way, not because it cannot be done through a non-law proposal, and not because this is not the forum, without prejudice to other socio-economic reasons. As you have been told before, use your representation in other institutions to assert your claims. And so we have tabled our amendment, which we advocate, an amendment in which we refer to the conventions, as it cannot be otherwise, and to Law 3/2016, for the inclusion of social clauses, as it cannot be otherwise. That's how we defend the same one. Thus we repeat that our party favors the maintenance of wages and other conditions of labour and the improvement of rights, for all of us. But you can't do it through the procedure you're proposing. "Esquekadin, you ask again that you do not ask for it in Madrid, though we have no right to it here, and there we are. Therefore, we will only vote in favour of our amendment, and against the compromise, and we also encourage you to reconsider your position because it would really be wise to only adopt ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. It's your call, Mr Ruiz de Abulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Ugarte, I have the feeling that, in the initial approach of your first intervention, you are setting us a little trap, and I tell you with all my affection, if I may say so. Because you come to say, at the beginning of your speech, that you advocate quality employment, with decent economic conditions for all workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector. And that all those who do not agree with that request, will make legal excuses or political excuses not to take forward the proposition that you bring us today; and that is not so. I do not think that there is anyone in this House who does not advocate job creation, because that job is a quality job and because, within the quality conditions of that job, especially wages, is worthy, so that each worker can carry out his or her personal life project in the circumstances he or she considers appropriate. That is something in which all of us here – and those who are not here at the moment within the House – are perfectly in agreement. Now, if that is why we must support a proposal that you bring us this morning to debate, which you have already presented a long time ago, which, in my view, is illegal, then we cannot support it. And it does not mean that we do not share the initial objective that you put on the table, which was the first paragraph of that non-legislative proposal, which has given rise to this debate. You say it's a legal proposal; I, let me tell you, doubt it enough. I doubt it very much. Yes, because setting a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 for all those who work in positions arising from any recruitment of the Administration affects different legal aspects of the relations between enterprise and workers, which I believe are outside the competence of this Parliament and, of course, the competence of the Government. Firstly, they affect relations between undertakings and workers, which are perfectly regulated by their collective agreements, and I understand that we cannot force any undertaking to modify those relations freely agreed between undertakings and workers within the limits which they have considered appropriate. But imagine that we are within companies that work for the public sector and that provide services also for the private sector. Do workers who serve in private companies during certain days of the week also have to have a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, or only the days they provide their services to public companies? It doesn't make much sense! It has greatly improved its initial wording with the amendment by Podemos, because it already talks to us about at least three levels of competition: that of the Basque Government, that of the deputies and that of the municipalities, all the public administrations of the Community. Because we were seeing each other in a very curious situation. I was thinking, in particular, of a company in Álava: it is a public capital company: it is a special employment centre, it works primarily for public administrations, it works for councils, it works for municipalities, it works for the Foral Diputación de Álava and I believe that for some other member from outside Álava and it works for the Basque Government; in particular, it works for Osakidetza. If we approve this here, with its initial text, it would only affect the contracts that come for that Osakidetza company. The rest, right? Why not? And why 1,200 euros? Because you set the example on top of the table of these Tabakalera workers who charge 1,000 euros and that under those conditions you cannot live in San Sebastián. With 1,200 euros you can live in San Sebastián? Why not 1,500? Why not 1,800? Why are we so scarred? Why do we put the level so low, or why do we put it in 1,200 and not 1,100? Why don't we ask for the goal that was set between the employer and the national establishment unions to reach those nearly 1,000-1,700 euros by 2020? On what sesudo study are you based to place this level of the 1,200 euros, which to me, sincerely, – and will allow me to tell you – seems to me a simple occurrence? I told him that it affected the relationship between employers and workers through collective agreements, and that I believe that this is not an area in which we should be involved; but it also affects the rules of all public procurement, that is not that it is a state regulation, that I already know what to discuss with you about what is state regulation or not state regulation..., they say that state regulation does not matter to you, that you do not care, that you do not comply with it, and that what you want is your own. Yeah, but we've got the state... And I believe that in the state regulation of all public sector contracts – you see that it is diverse and prolific and complicated that regulation – I do not see fit to place this 1,200 euros clause. By the way, 1,200 euros that doesn't specify, because generally in the conventions we talk about 14 pay. In this case, I don't know if we're talking 12 pay or 14 pay. The interprofessional minimum wage. Generally, the reference to the same is made through the daily wage, so that there is no misunderstanding: now it is 24.5 or 24.7 euros per day. They want a propagandistic pact that does not exactly clarify the terms – because it does not collect them – to raise it to 30, and you ask it to be 40, but depends on how we read your request, it could not be those 40 euros per day, but 46,7 or 47 euros practically. There is nothing concrete about us; it is not based on anything to make the proposal that makes us, and it seeks to break the relations between employers and workers through the agreements, to break the state rules on public sector contracts – of course, state rules that are perfectly permeated by the European rules on the public sector, which also does not apply to us, because we have to do one of our own; I do not know. I find your proposal a little crazy. But it is that finally what we are inciting, in fact, would be in the interprofessional minimum wage. Interprofessional minimum wage that you are already differentiating, because you speak to us only for those who work for the public sector. With his proposal on the table, which insists that it is legal for the gestures he makes to me, we would have two minimum interprofessional wages: one for the private sector and the other for those working in the public sector. Boy, that's creating a difference between the workers, which to me seems absolutely entrepreneurshipable. I'm telling you honestly. I return to the example I have set of this special employment centre for workers working for the public sector in gardening, in industrial laundry... Depending on what the worker is engaged in and how many hours he spends, either for a public contractor or for a private contractor... I'm thinking about the laundromats, who work for Osakidetza (for hospitals) or work for senior out-patient homes. In such cases, would it have to reach those 1,200 euros? Only for Osakidetza? The ones from the out-of-town jobs, right? Those who work for municipal residences don't have to have those 1,200 euros either? And we are talking about a company with a certain number of workers, which does what it does is to provide services to different institutions. And when do they work for private companies inside that same laundry? For hotels, for example. Those who do the cleaning shift of certain hotels, do they not have the right to perceive those economic conditions that you only ask for from the public sector? It seems to me a little schizophrenic, unreal and absolutely unfair, because it would create a lot of differences within a single company, in role of which job they are occupying. And besides, do you really think that companies could handle that pull that you're proposing? I mean, really the difference between... Those companies that we leave that are with an interprofessional minimum wage because they do not have an existing agreement and that the obligation has determined that it is this, now we will practically double it: from 25 euros to 40 euros or to 47 euros that you intend to raise it... Is all this an integral gain that stays within the company? I honestly don't think so; to me, the numbers don't come out. You have in your head a figure of an entrepreneur who earns money at the door and who keeps it and exploits the workers, but nothing further from reality. You think that, really, there are companies that pay their workers the interprofessional minimum wage of 735 euros when they can pay them the 1,200 euros gross, net, on 12 or 14 pay, that I don't care, because it's barbarity, it's an abyss..., not honestly. I do not believe in that business model, and therefore, from the People's Group, we are going to vote no. On the other hand, you should have already assumed this because you have not even called us to try to reach an agreement or to encourage us to sign in the final vote the agreement you have reached, greatly improving your initial proposal, but which, of course, we do not share, because we understand that it is not a real model and because we understand that it is not legal and because we also understand that it is turning a responsibility to the Government that they cannot assume within their powers. One last thing, Mrs Ugarte, and answer me now in your next turn, if possible: if this measure is legal, why do you bring us a GNP? Why not bring us a bill for the supposed regulatory changes that should be made here to force the government to carry out what you are proposing with your initiative? I am saying this because that would give us time for a much more calm, much more technical, much more legal debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the day's answers, Mrs. Ugarte, representative of the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u30	I am very concerned because this is a legislative body; it is a legislative body. So, in the legislative bodies, I understand that duties must be done and that we must learn some laws, some jurisprudence, look at what is possible and what is not possible. So, to get them to take some notes, okay? Article 4.2 of the Foral Standard 4/2013. It states that "the following content shall be included in the particular administrative clauses of the contracts: that this contract has been subject to compliance with legal provisions, et cetera, et cetera and, in particular, to the last text existing at each time in the Collective Agreement on Construction and Public Works of Gipuzkoa, published in the Official Gazette of Gipuzkoa". This has been endorsed by the High Court of Justice in 2014, and by the Supreme Court in 2016; this article, 4.2, is in force; it is in force and read the judgment, because I read it yesterday, again, just in case, in case I was wrong. It's in effect! This means that this is legal, this means that this is legal, and, with all the affection, I'm going to tell you that I think you've been a little more concerned with analysing the issues – obviously, I'm not going to call you because I knew you weren't going to approve of it, after all the hunch you've done with the labor issues in the Spanish state. To begin with, to accept the stateal frame, EAJ seems to me extremely troubling. Throw the ball on the other side... What is happening here is that we are all in favour of decent employment, because we cannot be said to be against decent employment. See who's the handsome one who comes here and says he's against decent employment? Another thing is to guarantee it, as Alexia said, to guarantee it. What mechanisms does Law 3/2016 have to ensure that this is done? Because if that were guaranteed, if decent working conditions were guaranteed, in Tabakalera the workers would not flee, they would not complain, there would be no strikes... And almost all of the subcontracting in the public administration is on strike, and it is on strike because it has no decent wages. Iruditzen finds her bearish inportant. 1,200 euros. Look, the 1,200 euros are so easy to understand. 1.200 euros are calculated according to the Social Card of Europe, like pensions of 1.080; it is not a number we have drawn from anywhere. But I saw today that you have a great deal of wealth in giving ideas, and we believe that no unions can be opposed even if we turned those 1200 into 1,500. I don't think there's any problem. 1.200 euros are the one who proclaims the synthesis of the majority, and we work with the majority here, because we believe in the circle of work here and we will continue to defend it, because we believe that it is not a question of independence to defend the circle of self-relationships. We think it's very pragmatic. The degree of life in the EAE and in other parts of the Spanish State is not compatible. Eta esan dut 900 euroak musika one say it, bathe the 900 euros, Alexia, you know perfectly well that they are approved by decision of the Governing Council, and do not need our votes in Congress. That's not discussed in Congress, no. Another thing is that this is part of the budget agreement. No, no, nothing else is the budget, but the decision is taken annually by the Government; every January, the Governing Council. Therefore, Egyptian tranpak ez zit iruditzen oso egokia denik. So seeing this and seeing the mood here, I think we're going to have to present more initiative in this sense. I think we're going to have to run more initiative because these initiatives are legal and they're vulnerable because it's possible and because it's possible. You tried to do a similar thing in the Biscabit Division with the instructions, and they weren't legal, and in both cases the court of Justice said they weren't legal. But the proposition that collected in Gipuzata worked with the union majority, which was not with the majority of unions, is a legal proposition, and the Supreme Court said it was legal in 2016. So from now on, we'll introduce more of this kind of initiative, bring them... and seeing that you give more importance to these other enterprises than what we have just now brought in, perhaps even the Poptular party himself will agree that if we bring in a legal proposition like this we will establish a public salary for the 1,200. There are two-speed society (the public administration and the private sector), and you are right, even today-it's true, and our goal is to have the smallest crack between people working in public administration and people working in private sector. We know that margins are not often great, but it's planned in all public contracts. And the law we have has no guarantees and no guarantees. For let us not forget: if these worthy conditions of work are not guaranteed, the administration ought to punish them, because they have not punished the employment of quality, because they do not submit to what they have promised, or to the person who hired them, and are extremely imperfect. This is what the Gipuian Foru Rule did, and this is what we have to do here, and there is no doubt that we will bring more of this kind of initiative and hope to say yes in one of them, and to have political and political will and to change the position of managing the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u31	Please finish, Mrs. Ugarte. Okay, thanks to you. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u32	Sí. We can discuss many things; we can discuss how far we can get within the legal margins, but what I am not surprised is that, every time we talk about working conditions, it is used as justification and it is said – in this case, by Mrs Castelo, who is recurrent with this; although, today, of course, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has also used this argument – that what is intended is to replace the unions, when you know, moreover, that this is not true. This is a parliament; this is a political parliament and workers' rights are also political issues, and what we are going to agree here is never going to be able to violate collective agreements that agree on workers and entrepreneurs. They won't be able to! The agreements lay down minimum conditions. They set minimum conditions. And today we were talking about working conditions, about companies hiring for the public administration and, therefore, what we are talking about is how the public administration can exercise its responsibility for jobs that ultimately depend on it. That's what we're talking about. And we will be able to fine-tune on specific issues and from where they leave us or do not leave us the law. The truth is that I believe, if I am not mistaken, that those who have brought the proposal on this occasion have not received any counter-offer on this issue. And the focus is on the 1,200-euro issue. We included in our amendment the question of subcontracting, because it seems fundamental to us, because it seems important to us, because it is absolutely legal and can be done, the Administration can fight a policy... It's not that I can fight, it's that I can have a different policy than is being done, not just the Basque administration, all the administrations in our environment. That's the model. It is a model which is given in the private sphere and which, in the private sphere, public administrations have also copied. It is a model recommended by the big organs of international capital: it is to reduce costs based on reducing the labour force, and for that, contracts and subcontracts are used, and it does not develop, on the part of the public administration – as I said, as I have said many times – a powerful sector to guarantee the needs that we as a public administration have. But it is that, in addition, in the hirings that are made, this method is abused and, moreover, it is not only not contrary to any law of the things that we propose, it is that it is contained in the law, it is that the Law for Public Procurement itself, as I said before, sets a number of priorities when it comes to hiring, and those priorities are not met and in Euskadi they are not met. And the trend and rule is to use company contracts for all kinds of services that can, despite agreements with trade unions as well, which trade unions have often denounced as not being met and which this government repeatedly insists on saying yes. That is why it also hurts to hear that excuse unions are being used in this House when some parliamentary group proposes issues related to the improvement of working conditions, when then constantly trade unions, when they come to say that agreements with governments are not being implemented, are being denied the greatest. I believe that this initiative is really possible; it can be implemented. Social issues have to be in public procurement. Today, the only criterion is economic, despite the existence of social clauses, despite the existence of such a Basque law on social clauses. And European legislation also provides for this, and European legislation speaks precisely of having to rely on these kinds of issues that are not counted on. And today we weren't talking about the minimum wage. We are not talking about the interprofessional minimum wage that, in fact... Of course not! Today we are not talking about the interprofessional minimum wage, which, in fact, we have no competence to establish interprofessional minimum wage. But what we are talking about is how we can use the tools that we do have in the public administration for contracts of employment that depend on the public administration, for workers who work for their private company, but who are doing a job that is for us and for us, for the public administration, for what is for everyone. And that can be done. And we do defend here the same as we defend elsewhere. In each place there will be necessary living standards and different wages; it is not the same living in Donostia as living in other parts of the State. United Left has taken initiatives of this kind in other parts of the state and elsewhere we have talked about 1,000 or 1,100 euros. We defend exactly the same thing, and we have reached an agreement, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. We have reached a budget agreement for a minimum wage of 900 euros – logically, you don't have to convince me of this, because we signed it; I know you were addressing Mrs Ugarte – which is an improvement for a lot of people throughout the state...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u33	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u34	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. It is not at all incompatible with this type of initiatives, which in Euskadi can improve the lives of the workers of our Community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u36	Well, you've left me shocked. Well, if we're not talking about a minimum wage, what were we talking about? Because here the only novelty that has the non-law proposal..., that, if we want to do serious parliamentary work, I will remind you, Mrs Ugarte, that this is a legislative chamber and you can quietly bring, without any problem, a bill. For the theme of the use and promotion of euskera they have already brought it, for the theme of social clauses they can bring it... If you are so interested in actually having a serious parliamentary job, bring it. Elkarrekin Podemos has brought it, but he has left it also, like you, since February, in the drawer; we will see when you want to activate it. I mean, serious work, everyone; in short, it is not worth going out here to the rostrum and coming to say..., and here what we are talking about, Mr Hernández, that not Sánchez..., the obsession that Mrs Larraitz has with the subject of the quality of employment I have at the moment for Pedro Sánchez, our President of the Government, to carry out budgets, which are necessary for the Governing Council to approve the 900 euros of interprofessional minimum wage. Because, of course, the 340 million from somewhere we have to get them out, and we have to get them out of a new budget that has to be approved, and there we need, not only their votes, I will also try to apply for the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party, as it cannot be otherwise, because those of Podemos, the United We can, right now, have them and we are going in the same line. However, it is difficult to meet us – I say it to both Mr Hernández and Mrs Ugarte – because no one has been addressed to me, absolutely no one; you have the mania, or the vice, or the defect, say whatever you want, that you think that talking to the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group are you talking to the Socialist Party, and you are very wrong. Was it easy or not to reach an agreement? Well, we haven't even explored it. Anyway, it's easy for you two to be here, isn't it?, in this of a non-law proposition and say 1,200, but, just as you have demonstrated the gipuzcoana foral norm, that what the Supreme Court has told you is – and it has value, eh – that you can request the application of the nearest sectoral convention in force or that it has been published in the newsletter, that is, you were going to some species as ultraactivity, to a defense of ultraactivity. That's what you told him; what you didn't tell him is that, if the convention said 1,100, you can say 1,200. He hasn't told you, he hasn't told you; don't cheat, don't fake... That's what he said; what he said is convention, yes; and who it is, that is, they wouldn't have that problem in Gipuzkoa – neither do they worry, eh–; that is, if the Gipuzcoan rule didn't have to say it because in the Gipuzkoa convention they don't have any salary below 1,200 euros a month. But yes, for example, it happens to him in Navarre, who have just finished a legislative work, I understand that it is serious, because there we too have participated and the 1,200 have not been put on. Why? What has been put on is respect for the collective agreement, and I already know that you say that I am very repetitive saying here that trade unions should not be replaced, indeed, because they have their role. But what you're telling me is that if a company, a responsible company, complies with the Bizkaia Provincial Cleaning Convention and cleans in a public administration building, it fulfills the agreement with the unions, because it's not enough: you come here, come out, amend the plan to the unions and the sectorial, and you say 1,200: this gentleman, 1,200... Look, you clean the office of, because I don't know, Pepe the Fruiter, because that's why you're going to charge 1,050; but, as you clean the one next door, which is the office, imagine, of a public rehabilitation society, that that happens to us, for example, in my municipality, then you're going to charge 1,200. Well, man, with this what we're trying to do is an interprofessional minimum wage for some, an interprofessional minimum wage for others. Is that our competition? No, no, Do you know where the improvement of working conditions for workers, competence of politicians is? Look, at the Congress of Deputies. And you know how? Adopting a higher interprofessional minimum wage. Do you know how? Repealing the 2012 reform – by the way, we also need your votes for that. Do you know how? Finishing the reform of Article 42 of the Workers' Statute, to ensure equal conditions in subcontracting – for that we also need your votes, and yours. I mean, that's what we're here for. It's easy to come and fill, but you can't fake it either. He was telling me: we have to be consistent; we are. You don't have to move from position; I haven't moved, but I don't come to fool anyone. I know perfectly well that 1,200 euros, first of all, is not our competence or we can do it. I wish we could put in 1,200. Give me an example, just an example, where it governs United We can, we can or United Left or EH Bildu, and you have made the 1,200 minimum hiring. Nowhere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. Laruri, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u38	women: Mr Hernández, I am surprised, like Mrs Castelo, that you say that we have not come here to talk about the minimum wage of 1,200, and I am more surprised when you said that you already knew that we do not have competence, but well, because we put it into a non-law proposal and asked the Government to do so. I mean, little rigor at least. And Mrs Ugarte and Mr Hernández, I repeat that... –well, Mr Hernández has already acknowledged it –, that this that they ask is not possible, that we have no competence, that this that they ask in their proposal not of law is not possible. It is not legally possible, since the State has jurisdiction. And I repeat that we all have desires but that reality is imposed on desires, that we do not have the competence to reverse labour reform either. So don't cheat, don't cheat; don't cheat. We do not make excuses, but you do not cheat and do not deceive the citizens: do not try to confuse the citizens with a holder of 1,200 euros in public contracts in Euskadi and that has not come out because the majority of the Basque Parliament has not had political will; do not deceive. It is not possible, it is not legally possible to demand that from the Basque Government; it is not possible and you know it. And, on the other hand, the consequences... And they have also talked about the contract law, that the contract law encourages the introduction of social clauses; of course, of course it encourages but what it does not do is... it does not allow it to be forced to impose a minimum wage; no, it does not allow that. To encourage social clauses, yes, and that is what allows our law on social clauses, the law of this Parliament and the law on contracts that transposes the European directive, but it does not allow you to do what you want to do through this proposal for a law; it does not allow it. And, on the other hand, social doubts are also... They generate us, the truth, that many doubts, generate us in the situation in which the small and medium-sized enterprises of this country could remain. And that's why, 1,200 euros... the salary of 1,200 euros – of which you will have made an assessment – but, of course, we understand that it is an occurrence. If the Basque Government decided to introduce this into its recruitments, all Government recruitment would be put at risk. There would be a risk of challenges, of resources... And you, once those resources come in and those services and works don't work properly, you would be the first to come here to demand responsibilities. They'd be the first to say that that doesn't work well. Act responsibly! And you, with this measure only for public contracts, are creating first and second-rate workers. Workers in a company that works for public procurement and those who work for the private sector. First-time and second-time workers. You're creating workers first and second, and that's very lefty, and very people, very popular... I don't think so. On the other hand, subcontracting. I am glad that they have not been eliminated, that they do not propose to eliminate them; because, indeed, it is something to be protected, always with guarantees and in accordance with the law. And Mrs Ugarte, you speak of Gipuzkoa, you have spoken again of Gipuzkoa; you say you did, of course you did, and I share that both the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and that of the Supreme Court does not nullify that rule. "I share," but they were given on the flotation line of that standard. You say, if we read our sentences – I read them to myself; I know you too, but I also read them to me – and the sentence says that what that rule means is not what you say it says. They are both interpretative judgments, which say that is that the foral rule, when it said such in that section 4.2 that it says, what it means is that there is a reference to labour law, which is what I have been telling you in all my first intervention. It is necessary to refer to labour legislation both for agreements and to impose a minimum wage. And I repeat that they did not put in a minimum wage of 1,200 euros. So don't cheat; don't try to confuse. I read my sentences too, we read our sentences. Don't try to confuse, but not me; don't try to confuse society, which is that its outlaw today says what it says. Not what you say. And Euskadi, indeed, is not competent. I am clear about the role of this Parliament. I don't know if you Yeah. And, on the other hand, Elkarrekin We can incur quite a few inconsistencies. On the one hand, it has a proposal for a law which proposes one thing, and today it proposes another. The same for public procurement. And the 900 euros signed 15 days ago in Madrid, and today here 1,200 euros, the truth that I can't understand. You talk about the living standards of each site, and I can't understand it: before it comes into force you've surpassed it. Before those 900 euros come into force, you have surpassed it. He's taken off from his secretary general. I don't know if they didn't ask you for advice in Madrid and they had to put 1,200 euros in Madrid, because in Madrid it was below 900 euros where it was supposed to be precarious; now, here, below 1,200. Well, I don't know. The truth is, I don't know what the official version is. I don't know what's right. You confuse me and you confuse us, and you confuse me, it's okay, but confusing the citizenry, that's more serious. And, therefore, I have nothing but to tell you to act responsibly, that we, as always, act responsibly and hope that you will, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Ugarte, if in the first intervention I began to criticize you because you understood that you were trying to trap us with an enveloping speech, in this second intervention what I am going to give you is congratulations and welcome to the rule of law. I am deeply excited to hear you speak, with that pride and satisfaction, that you agree with the rulings of the Supreme Court, on any matter; I suppose it will be in general or the same is only about the outlaws that you made at your time of government in Gipuzkoa. No, I take it that you do agree with the system of law that allows us to be in this rostrum and talk about what we are talking about. Welcome back to you and your colleagues, if you share that position; of course, yes. But again, you're cheating on us, because you're talking about a very concrete article about a very concrete foral rule of the historical territory of Gipuzkoa, which is not extrapolable to the reality we're talking about. Moreover, it does not speak of a minimum amount fixed by that foral rule, but of the fact that agreements between undertakings and workers, which are completely different things, must be respected. I told him that it affected three aspects of the interprofessional minimum wage, that this is not what the judgment speaks of at all: the freedom of pact between business and workers – Mr Hernández, business and workers, not the work of trade unions – and, thirdly, the rules embodied in the European regulation on public sector recruitment. And about that, the sentence doesn't talk at all. He has already told us that he is going to bring us many similar initiatives; I hope that this time it is legislative proposals that we can discuss here and that we can apply, if you have it so clear; but to me, of course, he will allow me to maintain my doubts for the moment. In the first round, I have not been able to talk about the joint amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which we will also not be able to support, for the same argument I gave you a couple of weeks ago. You call on Mr Urkullu's Government to comply with the laws, but you do not set any examples on the table that he is not complying with them. We could spend all the plenary debating and urging the Government to comply with the laws, which I understand is something they usually try to do, which they do without us having to remind them. To that end, there is no need for amendments. And in the event that we have to ask, it is when it has been proven that the rules are not being complied with both in respect of contracts between companies and workers and in respect of minimum inter-professional wages in all the contracts of the Basque Government. Finally, Mrs Castelo, I am deeply grateful that in your minutes of publicity and commercial work you did not ask for our votes in the Congress of Deputies, for the next General Budgets of the State, because I would have made a compromise by having to say no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the Middle Amendment that EH Collect has signed together by Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 30; the opponents, 43, the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u42	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 36; counters, 37, white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u43	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together about Margüello. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Uria, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u44	Mrs. Tejeria, good morning. Good morning, chief of departments, compaños, compañeras...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u45	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u46	???????????? I'm going to play some thoughts we've done on Elkarrekin We can on the Margüello case. Three of the four accused in the Margüello case will not go to prison, but will be punished with seven to nine years of administrative disqualification from public office. This whole thing didn't end well. There has been friendship, corruption and misappropriation of public funds. The Basque Government has had an opportunity to demonstrate an ethical sense in political action and to prestige its own political action in front of Basque citizens. You missed that chance. I'm not gonna be long. There has been time to discuss the subject of the Margüello case in detail. I'm just going to make a small introduction and two brief, simple reflections. After 10 years of the Basque Government leading the Socialist Party filing the first complaint of irregularities in the outsourcing of Osakidetza's services for the benefit of the companies linked to the former head of health of the hospital of Cruces, Juan Carlos Margüello, the Provincial Court issued on Monday 10 September a sentence, in which it acquitted the accused, two of them senior officials – the Basque Nationalist Party – of the most serious crimes they faced: fraud, embezzlement of public revenues and prohibited negotiations with officials. At the last session, the Prosecutor's Office requested compensation from the Basque Government, with EUR 6.8 million, which is the amount of money that Margüello's companies received in those contracts. For 10 years, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions emphasized that Margüello's companies did not contribute anything; they were only intermediaries. Just two comments on this issue: not investing in the public sector and investing in the private sector, as everyone knows, is decapitalizing the public sector. You don't call it embezzlement, if you don't want to, but it's really a serious issue that we'll have to reflect on the partnership strategy in the public-private health world. And, on the other hand, all of us who worked in the Department of Health in those years – I'm talking about the period 2004-2007 – knew that the profit rates of Margüello's companies were the highest of the concert policies that the Department of Health had made in the last 15 years. The profit rates of Health Services Management XXI were the highest. We were surprised – we were talking about it in the cafe by the medical inspectors – we were surprised by that rate of profit, which did not appear when talking about embezzlement of public funds. 2004-2007. Almost 10 years in which Margüello's companies, which provided nothing, hired clinics for waiting lists that had to be lowered. I remind you that, between 2009 and 2012, Dr. Rafa Bengoa was a counselor and, from 2012 to 2018, Jon Darpón, who is currently a counselor. This situation is quite difficult to understand, if we do not start from two assumptions, that we have experienced them directly. The first assumption is that Gabriel Inclán, former Health Advisor of the Basque Nationalist Party for eight years, and Juan Carlos Margüello, former quality head of the hospital of Cruces, were friends. They were friends from college; they were personal friends. How many personal friends? How much? Well, they were summering together; I don't know how much. They were friends. And the second assumption: the management, planning and management model of the Department of Health and its three territorial delegations and of the Directorate General of Osakidetza was very vertical; it was based on mutual loyalty and complicity throughout its structure. You cannot understand everything that has happened, if these two scenarios had not been given: the friendship between the former councillor and Juan Carlos Margüello, and a decision-making, a culture of decision-making, authoritarian and vertical in the health council of Gabriel Inclán. Even the former councillor forced an accession document, which denounced the nauseous lies that were pouring out without evidence, that signed all the high charges, some did not see it or feel clear, but they were told to sign that document, including our councillor Jon Darpón. Proof? There was plenty of evidence, as the committee of inquiry that this Parliament set up and chaired Parliament's Laura Garrido fully knew. By that commission of inquiry, dozens of people, technicians, responsible... who knew the facts and said their opinion. "We ask to investigate to its last consequences and return the money used with bad arts of the public administration," says, among other things, the opinion of this commission. Almost 12 years for the sentence. Is it normal for a trial to last 12 years? Two governments, changes in fiscal opinion. Was this a matter of confrontation between PNV and PSOE? This was a crime, it wasn't a matter of confrontation. What's with all the changes? Two thoughts and I'm done. A reflection, necessarily of a political nature: we must listen to Parliament and to what we decide in the committees and in the plenary, but we lose political legitimacy in front of the citizens. What we do, what we say... In commissions, in plenary sessions, in commissions of inquiry, in non-legislative proposals, in written questions... loses prestige, as a capacity for political-legislative control. This is the first political reflection: to ignore Parliament and its various majorities, which, in this case, committee after committee has been, is to discredit our political capacity as an institution. The Government must therefore recognize Basque public health as a fundamental objective, and public education, public pensions, public social policies, should not authorize outsourced strands that supposedly improve efficiency. The public always loses when it competes with the private, because it is an unfair competition; it always loses, because it decapitalizes: the piece of cake that does not go to the public and goes to the private, does not go to the public... If it's very simple to understand; it's decapitalized. When Juanjo Ibarretxe, exlehendakari, said: "These waiting lists must be removed by December; it is invested in the public service and in those units of surgical technical services or complementary diagnostic techniques, which are able to decrease waiting lists", because those waiting lists were not short-term, they were structural. The Government must set an example of good doing and good governance and promote the common good, as propaganda says. And the second reflection is an ethical reflection. Ethics studies the right or wrong of human behavior; morals, virtue, happiness and good living. An independent observer, from any city in our land, what he has observed throughout the Margüello case process over the past 12 years. He has observed the following: that changes in government change their behaviour vis-à-vis the breakdown of the same laws in an obvious way; secondly, that the important thing is not the law, but whether or not you belong to the dominant political power group; thirdly, that it does not matter the opinion of Parliament or its committees and less of its commission of inquiry, but what matters is the naked opinion of the hegemonic political party in the Government, and that therefore, from respect for judicial independence, this, before the citizenry, calls into question the independence, at least, of the opinions of the prosecutors. That is why we have presented this GNP, and I finish now, because I just wanted to move these simple reflections. This has not ended well, the contempt of this Parliament is more than obvious; the loss of opportunity in the face of obvious corruption by the Basque Government has been obvious, and all we want to say is that, in the face of corruption, amigoism, the breakdown of the law and political pride, we demand that the recommendations of the parliamentary commission of inquiry be complied with. It's nothing else; I don't want to insult anyone, I don't want to pose..., here a lot has been said about Margüello; it's clear to all of you, it's clear to all of you what's going on and what's happened. The Basque Government must not lose political opportunities to stand up for its own action. People realize: obviously, the people of Osakidetza; obviously, the Department of Health... I still remember the screams we heard from Dr. Elorriaga in the Department of Health to officials who didn't exactly do what he wanted; angry screams; it was spectacular; we discussed it every day. I only have to thank Eva Blanco de Bildu, Laura Garrido of the People's Party, Natalia Rojo of the Socialist Party, because we have come to a compromise, which does not satisfy either of the four but which raises basic questions of returning sovereignty to this Parliament and trying to work with some ethical aspects of the work. We have left hairs in the catera; but I certainly want to thank the political groups for this behaviour in order to reach a majority compromise, for it is to be thanked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief Physician, Mr. Erkorek. Good morning, congressmen. In 2010, we all agreed to some definite conclusions and recommendations on the legislature, except the Jelt Party of the Eus, in order to investigate the irregularities of the Medical Department. That's why, in our proposal, in our proposed correction... we wanted to renew both conclusions and recommendations at that moment. At the very moment of his life, the Jestric Party presented a single vote, which did not agree to the resolutions, the conclusions... he consented, and not even recommendations; he was left alone, and today he seems to be alone again. The Provincial Court of Bizkaia has handed down a judgment condemning Mr Margüello, the former head of quality of the hospital of Cruces; Mr Elorriaga, former territorial director of the health of Bizkaia; and Mrs Fernández; the first two, of course, positions of trust and friends of the former or then responsible for the Department of Health. They do not simply go on as optionals, Mr Erkoreka; they had a personal, friendly relationship with the former heads of the Department of Health. At the time, the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was finalizing the appeal against this Margüello judgement, applied for prison sentences of between 6 and 11 years for prevarication, embezzlement and illegal fraud against the public administration, and estimated the possible breach of public administrations at EUR 6.8 million. It is found that these companies did not contribute anything, that the awards benefited companies belonging to friends of the former heads of the Department of Health, when Mr Inclán was at the head of the department, and that these irregular actions take place continuously over time, despite continuous warnings of legality. The Government was acting as a private prosecution, but it must be said that it changed its mind and refused to seek compensation for believing that there was no economic injury. What is clear is that there are proven facts that a high office of the Department of Health, Mr. Elorriaga, at that time in charge of Bizkaia territory, hires a company of his friend Carlos Margüello, optional of Osakidetza, head of quality of the hospital of Cruces, and all these people close at the time to both the vice-counsel and the councillor, Mr. Inclán. We approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry, which I had the honour of chairing, which, I mean, carried out very thorough work, very hard work, work in which, in the end, it was tried and approved what the conclusions that we want to be ratified today pointed out at the time. In the conclusions of the investigation, where the PNV presents a particular vote, which was rejected, the PNV does not recognize any of the facts analysed and therefore denied the existing irregularities, a position in which we have to say that it will be reaffirmed today. At that time, the Health Adviser, Mr Bengoa, of the Socialist Party, opened an information file pointing to conclusions that had been endorsed by numerous reports from the Legal Advisory Commission, the economic control body, the Basque Court of Auditors and by numerous testimonies in the appearances that had taken place in this Parliament. It is clear from these findings that in the period 1996-2009 there was a series of repeated and continuous irregularities which affect the procurement processes of various health services, that these processes are carried out without due publicity and competition, that there are price increases in contracts, that the period of validity of one year is not maintained so that those prices are not increased, that they are applied in rates well above the increases that were taking place at that time in the rest of the concerts – we speak of increases of 19 % – and that those price increases are produced in an absolutely unilateral manner. These irregularities, as the findings say, were found in the concerted hiring for the benefit of companies, in which a group of people with direct links participated, because they were friends of the health authorities at the time. And the most serious thing is that these irregularities were maintained in time and continued in time, despite continuous warnings of legality. What a coincidence! I've been talking about the rate increases. I shall now refer to another of the conclusions, in which it is pointed out that procedures are repeatedly used which limit competition and thus competition, and which systematically lead to the existence of a single tenderer, what a coincidence!, in which transparency and, of course, invitations to tender for the emergency procedure, without due justification, are being violated. Not to mention another of the conclusions, which speaks of the clear incompatibilities in health personnel of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, which at the same time carried out specific activities, not in a medical office, but through specific companies and some created ad hoc It is always up to Osakidetza to manage the waiting lists. Another thing is that contracts are concluded with private companies, but the management of waiting lists is managed from Osakidetza itself. Coincidence in the same persons in the irregular proceedings. What a coincidence! Friends, I repeat again, of those responsible at that time for the Department of Health. Well, it deserves a separate chapter the creation of the ad hoc company That is why the opinion of COJUA, by ex officio revising this resolution, declares the procedure null and void. When an administrative procedure is declared invalid it is that it is addicted to origin; it is not voidable, it is void, because it was totally dispensed from the legal procedure established to give such authorization to this company, as I say, created ad hoc ad hoc There is an economic damage, they also pointed out the conclusions, to the public coffers, but that at that time the economic damage could not be quantified, but that the Prosecutor's Office already amounted to 6.8 million euros. Also in the conclusions it is said that it is rare that the irregularities found were carried out without the knowledge – and even without the participation – of the previous health officials, with Mr Inclán at the head. I have no reason to recall here the picture in the Basque Parliament, the letter then signed by Mr Inclán (Health Adviser), by Mr Darpón (today Health Adviser), by Mrs Múgica, who was then and who is now and who also has to answer many questions in relation to the management she is currently doing in connection with the OPEs in Osakidetza, because this group wants to know, once and for all, who has given the list of exams at the OPE in Osakidetza for the purposes of the examinations. Who has given that list of experts, which, incidentally, in the indications that have been found, it is clear that the list of approved experts is close to the persons who have made the examinations. And this group again asks here today who has provided the list of experts at the OPE of Osakidetza to the IVAP for the OPE exams of Osakidetza. Yes, Mr Egibar, that picture in the Basque Parliament, which takes place, causality!, shortly after you hugged Mr De Miguel, also another plot of corruption that is being prosecuted right now, with people who have a connection and had a very close connection with the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, these irregularities are proven in the conclusions, and these continuous irregularities are proven over time, despite continuous warnings of legality. And we... – yes, I have to say that this statement is not new and that, in that sense, the initiative is not new – we wanted this initiative adopted today to include the ratification of the conclusions contained in the opinion of the committee of inquiry and also to include a reference to the recommendations that were being collected at that time, so that they could be launched by the Department of Health. Both issues have been reflected in this compromise amendment and we will therefore vote on it. And there is once again evidence that the Basque Nationalist Party remains alone, and that the Basque Nationalist Party, which at the time voted against the conclusions and recommendations adopted by this commission of inquiry, has not made a point of thinking. And, well, there's evidence, again, of the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u49	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u50	Thank you, President. And good morning to you all. I will start this intervention in the same way that I respected the Margüello case in the Health Committee of the past year and a half. In October 2018 we Socialists supported what we supported in February 2017, in June 2016 and in June 2011, because what we again address today was worked with intensity and rigour two legislatures ago. It was done with a very broad consensus and it was done at the urging of those who at that time had the greatest responsibility to ensure clarity and transparency in public procurement, the Government, which was a Socialist Government. It was because the team of the lehendakari Patxi López did what he had to do with this and other matters that raised, at least, some doubts. And we put those doubts in the hands of the prosecutor, the prosecutor, so that he would act as he saw fit and that he had concluded it properly, with a trial and a sentence, that he would like it more or less, but that is how we understand it to be done. And in parallel with this initiative, from the point of view of parliamentarians, we were working – as I said – in the strict field that is our responsibility, in detecting and correcting failures. I do not think it is any coincidence that the three groups that are here today and that we were involved in that agreement, we have focused on that point, because we are aware of how it was worked in that committee of inquiry. An effort that cannot be scorned, knowing that we were getting to where we could get to and where, among other things, we expressly chose not to set the responsibilities that judges must determine, and we chose to focus on what is in our hands: correcting administrative practices and in the public administration. So, first, a look in perspective, and we believe that it should not be despised as if nothing had been done in the face of suspicion of misuse of public money. Denunciation is important, but it is also important to know that we have not been with our arms crossed. We understand that the Socialists, of course, do not. It is also important to remember that this Parliament, and with regard to the case we are discussing today, has been ratified in the compromise of transparency, diligence and efficiency in public expenditure in the three legislatures: in which recommendations were denounced and worked, in which the judicial procedure was conducted and in which the oral trial took place. We did it at its beginning in February 17 and we will do it again at its conclusion, which is in October 18. That is why I repeat that there are still things to be done, but it is also true that in all this time there has been progress in some things to try to prevent cases like the Margüello case from happening again. The facts on which the commission of inquiry worked and the conclusions came before certain more demanding practices were put in place by the Basque Government to eliminate the spaces of suspicion in the use of money by all to provide public services. Because it is not wrong to remember that those improvement initiatives already led in 2012 to Euskadi obtaining the maximum score in this matter, and to do so following the parameters of an organization that we all recognize, as is Transparency International, and that now in the assessment of the 16th has regained that recognition. Throughout this time, initiatives have been implemented, for example, that have been maintained over time, which has also acquired this Parliament on the profile of the contractor and the publication of open processes. We have no doubt that more needs to be done. "Of course, we must do so", but there is also a commitment on the part of the current government, and we believe that it must be recognised, an agreement also adopted by the current House since the first ordinary plenary session: the drafting of a law on transparency, which seeks to deepen all the mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring the trace of each euro that Basque citizens leave in the hands of the institutions. And we believe that part of the demands of those recommendations can be met also through the adoption of that law and, of course, the paper is already working on it. Therefore, with regard to this initiative put forward by Mr Uria and in which four groups have signed a compromise amendment, we Socialists remain in our position, which was already known to all: rejection of any form of corruption involving misuse of public power, in order to achieve an illegitimate and illegal advantage, as well as any conduct aimed at justifying, concealing or protecting such conduct; compliance with the recommendations made by the committee's opinion adopted on 16 June 2011, and collaboration with Justice to tackle any possible misuse of public resources. Therefore, as Mr Uria said, surely the parliamentary groups that signed the compromise amendment, we have left all hairs in the trap, but the Basque Socialists understand that the compromise amendment reflects the philosophy that we all put forward in our amendments as a whole, and therefore the Socialist Group welcomes the agreement reached. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u51	Thank you, Miss Rojo. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u52	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen of the congress. The Margüello case again, the Margüello case... As we know, we are subject to discussion. It's funny: Nine, 10, 11, 12... have been a few years since this thing went off and we're still arguing about it. That is to say, there is at least something to be done in political matters, that everything has not been shut up, and remains to worry about this legislature. We may arrive at the question Margüello, or the case from different points of view; We can discuss the whole process and the trama, we can talk about the sentence, we can reflect on the difference of health services committed in the legislature, we can discuss political responsibilities, we can talk about the measures to which we have to take those political officials in the future... Well, we won't explain the whole thing, or the whole case, because you all know it better than it is. We may say something about the sentence; for example, we respect the principle of the division of sentence and power, which have been signed by the EH Collector, and by the rest of those who have signed this medium. No one will deny it; the other because we have grafted it on the fourth point of our middle course. Horrek ez of the esan nahi sentence konpartitzen dugunik guk behintzat, ez. It has gehiago, deigaria iruditzen zaigu epaileak kontratatzeko moduan ez zeuden sepresen alde jokatzeagatik egoztea kondenatuak; bath, aldi berean, diru publikoaren erabilera okerra ez ikustea. It was Berberan, harrigarria iruditzen zaigu, eta erdaraz irakurriko dut hitzez hitz, hanka ez sartzeko: "Let the judgment consider as proven facts that the persons who were accused were favored in public awards, that the accused acted in the spirit and in order to benefit economically the companies of one of them, by awarding to these contracts with the health council of the Basque Government, avoiding the principles of legality, objectivity and publicity that must govern such awards". Harrigarria da guretzat; bath, esan bezala, sentence onartzen dugu. This method, this judicial road, is therefore closed. But the political method remains to us, and we wish to distinguish here again the steps of the inquiry which we have made in the legislature, namely, the solutions or recommendations which appear in the middle of what we have described today, but the consequences also are of great importance, and we shall give some attention to them. There was no doubt any doubt that irregularity was repeated in the contractations of the treaty, in favor of certain persons who had the immediate share of the public medical administration. The tariffs associated with certain persons increased by the change in favor of these persons. Gestion de Servicios Sanitarius. Gaur egun, bilkura horretan onartutako ondorioak –guk, behintzat – berresten ditugu. Yes, we reaffirm ourselves in the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into the Margüello case and again insist on the implementation of the recommendations also adopted. It seems a lie that, seven years after the adoption of those recommendations, we will have to put it back on the table. Why? Well, because we have serious doubts that all of them have been fulfilled. And today it is up to the government to remind it that this House considers it necessary that all of them be complied with, that they be updated, yes, and that all of them be complied with. And those two issues, as we said, both the implementation of the recommendations and the ratification of those conclusions, are also reflected in our compromise amendment. Recommendations, of course, also addressed to Parliament, the Basque Court of Public Accounts and the Basque Government, which is what I think it is about today. So if there's political responsibility, if there's anything to do about fun, then it's always in the hands of political will. On the other hand, what has happened in the past cannot be changed, but whether we have a firm commitment to fight against the role or corruption, which we shall hereafter act as a political director, it is in our power to do. It's true, from the year 2009, things have changed, and we must admit that too: We have the law of transparency in our hands, among other things, but we have other formulas available in this house: for instance, EH Collect was officially registered the bill of law in the parliament, here, in order to produce an office against the best worshipers and corruptions. There's another interesting instrument, if we want to place deep measurements on the table so that corruption can be properly investigated, able to control and evaluate the use of public money. Because there is no place in society for corruptions, tramachs, rehearsals, clergyism, friendships, or benefits, to the idea that they are normal. Because the idea that you're in the right to be close to a certain political party, when you get benefits from a scholarship, contract, or public employment, can't be considered normal. We'll have a chance to talk about it around you, and then the day before yesterday, he was on behalf of the creation of that happy organ and the transfer of the proposition. So, as I'm saying, we'll have a chance to talk about these things in the future in the legislature. And with all this, we believe that we have explained in the text expressed in our whole correction, both the substance of the medium signed. In addition to the points of the amendment agreed by the four groups I have just explained, I also take the opportunity to thank the rest of the three speakers, and progress that we do like the amendment; another thing is that it could have been a little bit stricter, but we like the one we have signed. In addition to that, I will mention another point: the first, in particular, which is nothing more than a declaration of intent. What we want to convey there is that we show a rejection of any kind of corruption based on the abuse of public authorities. A declaration of intent, where we also denounce any form of clientelism and corruption, which, moreover, always causes harm in society at all levels. I sincerely believe that no one should refuse to vote on this: it is the zero point of first, not of first policy, of first public office; it is the zero point of any code of conduct; it is something that should be attached to our parliamentary or parliamentary record. And the fourth point, where we are talking about the separation of powers and respect for judgments, which I was commenting on, which included..., which was actually the amendment of the Nationalist Group, again, we like more or less, we have to abide by the judgments; that is, no one should stand against it, because it is logical. We therefore suspect that Basque Nationalists, who are the only ones who have not signed this amendment, where they really object to it is precisely in the second and third points, when we talk about the conclusions and recommendations of that committee of inquiry. Baina, well, ore da zure txanda; ez dakit zer iritzi duz un honen inguruan; azalduko diguzue zergatik ez duzuen onartzen erdibideko hau, eta, well, adi jarraituko dugu zure interbentzioa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Before I proceed to dispute or discourse, I will make it clear, that our party absolutely rejects and accuses all sorts of corruption and cases, and that in all the undertakings proposed in this legislature to prevent corruption, we have agreed in that sense. I remember when a similar proposal was accepted in the year of the 2014, and asked for an attorney against the corruption of Euskal Autonomy Er member. In the same way, we believe that, from the very beginning, the engagement of 'Esquill' has been complete, and the President Urkullu himself, from the first moment he took responsibility, has encouraged specific measures to prevent corruption. This is an example of the law of 1/2014, regulating the Act of Public Offices, and the decree that followed to develop it. To mention, too, the Gardenes, Partings, and Law of the Good Government, which, even in the former Law, had been originally established in the Parliament, though at last it was not allowed to be admitted. Here, too, several measures were proposed, and several measures were proposed to prevent corruption, especially in the circle of public contraction, which we are discussing here. Besides, and as I have said, as the Representative of the EH Collectors mentioned, there is a legal proposition, introduced by the EH Collectors, and we believe it may be disputed or exaggerated, and, as you have said, even the hilt, is favourable, and in that sense will give a chance to cultivate so many measures, as well as with so many measures as are received in that law of Gardenry. We therefore wish to make it clear, that our engagement is a complete and firm antecedent to corruption or irregularity, or irregularity of conduct, contrary to it; but the very action itself was at first proposed, and the arguments of the present day, or what has been said to us to-day, we doubt what was the true end of this enterprise. I have seen what has been said, but also what has been taken notice of in this enterprise. I'm talking about the statement of the ethan ochrectan, which seems to be very interested in some of them, including the Euccanian Jelt Party, but also the Jestric Party to bind him to the corruption of Euccany, Eukadin Clicelism, Cinchinism, corruption... because perception is the endeavour to form in society, in other parts of the Common-wealth, in the opinion of any excuse to provide for it here. But the reality is what it is, and not what one would like it to be, and this is reflected in numerous reports and indices with objective indicators, which are far from what is the particular political struggle of this Parliament or the particular political opinion that each group of this Parliament has: One of them, which we have mentioned on other occasions, is that of the Transparency International organization. In his reports, Euskadi, year after year, repeats his position at the top of the ranking and does so with the highest score: 100 over 100. But not just that. A few weeks ago we also learned about the results of the European Quality Index of Government, known as EQI, which is a study carried out by the University of Gothenburg on behalf of the European Commission. And in that report, in that study..., we are at almost the same level as the first 10 regions of the European Union and in the first position, as the autonomous community with the highest quality and lowest intensity of corruption of all those of the state. And with regard to the subject of health contracting, in relation to the subject of the Margüello case, with regard to health services, which so much was believed to have an impact, all that was raised in the initial proposal, we cannot forget the report of the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health, which again year after year finds that Basquedi has the best health services, obtains the best results in health and a greater satisfaction of its citizens. Therefore, if we make a contrast by applying objective indicators, the reality does not coincide with that which some parties intend to transmit to society. In any case, we do self-critic; we admit that in some cases there may be improper practices from certain individuals. And that's an example of what the court solved in the Margüello trial. Three persons have been convicted of the offence of prevarication, for failing to follow the administrative procedure for the procurement of services, which seems to some to be forgotten, the only offence of the four accused, and at no time have been convicted of embezzlement, Mr. Uria, at no time, which is what you have claimed; of the rest of the offences, the embezzlement of flows, illegal frauds and prohibited negotiations of officials, have all been acquitted. And it is Justice that has delivered its verdict, and we respect and abide by judicial decisions, as it cannot be otherwise, when we like them and when we do not like them. And I also think it is important to note that the former Councillor Mr Cerdán has been acquitted of all the crimes that were initially charged to him, of all the crimes that were initially charged to him by the Office of the Prosecutor, Mrs Garrido, of all of them. Like I said, we're against corruption. It is therefore necessary to continue the steps in order to destroy every kind of corruption or case. But that doesn't mean anything can be said or done. We demanded the division of power and the decisions of the courts to respect the rights we had submitted. That's right. For we have often seen Françoise; there is danger in making parallel political trials, divesting into the vortex of interest or political game. So we don't have a problem voting for the first and fourth points of the media, Mrs. Blanco. We don't have any problems. We agree with what's in there. And so I'd like to ask you, as you said, that we don't agree with the second and third points, because we don't vote at points, and we'd ask you to vote on one side for the first and fourth points, and the second and the third points to vote on the other side. And if anyone had any objections, we'd like to know about it in the second round, wouldn't we? Because that depends on what we're going to do, what we're going to vote for. So we don't have a problem voting for the first and fourth points of the media, but we don't agree with the second and third points. On the one hand, we don't agree with the consequences of the investigating committee. We didn't agree with each other and even today, we don't agree. Much less, some of these conclusions are very significant, and those which have been forgotten to mention to Garrido; he will know why they are opposed to what was passed in the sentence given by the court. And I remind you what the 12th and 13th consequences said about causing economic damage, and about the knowledge that was shared or shared by the officials of the Medical Department. So I don't want to discuss the content of the consequences again, because you've made the stew, limited to what interests you, but we can't protect them, as the magistrates have decided, because they're not true. Can you tell me that when you're in a mood, you're in a bad mood, and you're in a bad mood? Que no ocurrio, que esos hazos no son cytus y no ocurriero. On the other hand, and also on the third point, and connected with the political roads mentioned by the EH Collector, we have re-examined all the recommendations of the committee. There were seven recommendations, and we'd like to know which of these seven was not executed. You have a chance in this second round to get down here and determine which of these seven recommendations has not been served by the Medical Department. For this is not the first time that we have been able to discuss in this legislature, and you have an opportunity to tell me which of these recommendations has not been fulfilled. I'll tell you and we even defended ourselves in the discussion of the first committee: all these seven points, as far as possible, have been fulfilled by the respect the Medical Department has for the solutions of this legislature. As for the first point, 77/97 Decrea, well, the law of the public contract has been continually changed. Since the last 21 years and even the time the resolutions were accepted, this has been continually changed. We have, for instance, the rights we have of the European Union, but the new law of 9/2017 laws on the contract of the Public Sector just entered into force. That completely limits the jurisdiction of the funk or the Department of Health to regulate the decree, as far as the contractation is concerned. Well, at least he did everything he could about it. Second point, wait lists. Yes, Mr. Uria. Well, yeah. But, in fact, you're late. The waitlist is already running Os Members from the previous legislation. All of them. When there were recommendations or resolutions, it might not be...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u55	Finish up, Mr. Sweets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u56	...but at least now they're managed directly. As for the treatment of the health services, it is only in the last measure, and it is determined that the member of the service cannot be given by his means. And it's a fact that every year, when we discuss budgets, every year, we see that the amount of money that has been proportioned to the examination is decreased and diminished. Then, all control reports, fourth point. Well, yeah...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u58	All the records required by the Economic Control Bureau, COJU, are filled up, all required. As to the incompatibility of public offices, I have mentioned the regulation of developing the first ethical code. The law of transparency, etc., etc. You have a chance to come down here and tell me what hasn't been done. Or to fulfill what you want or what's missing, and maybe we'll end up like this sooner. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. It's the answer time. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u60	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, compañeros and compañeras. I thank Congressman Orbegozo, Councilman Jon Darpón, Lehendakari... for the repetitive mention you have made of my organization, the Federation of Associations in Public Health Defense, which I founded in Euskadi, which is called Osalde and which is the association of the Basque Country. In fact, Osakidetza comparatively has remained, in the analysis we have done, the best of the 17 health services of the Spanish state, and probably better than many in Europe, of our very level of wealth. No problem. The problem is if some decisions... not only no problem, I confirm it and repeat it. The problem is that, based on this reality, why some issues can discredit Osakidetza or can discredit the Government, because what we are talking about here is the only one who loses is the Government and many of the people who work in Osakidetza. You can't cover up corruption. Clientelism should not be covered in the subjects of the heads of services, in the topics of Margüello, it should not be covered. People realize it. Not only the people who work at Cruces, who know perfectly well the trajectory of Juan Carlos Margüello. Or the people who worked in the department, at the time of Gabi Inclán, the former counselor. People realize how the perch is. They cannot be covered, with the wits of defence lawyers or by withdrawing evidence from the Office of the Prosecutor, which is friendship, clientelism and corruption; it cannot be covered. If I have not raised the subject, Mr Orbegozo, from a technical point of view; I do not go in there too much, I am not a lawyer. I have raised two points, political and ethical, and that is the dimension that I am interested in discussing in this Parliament. Ethically, an opportunity has been missed to strengthen a good health service, to strengthen its leaders, to contemplate, to withdraw... anti-democratic caves that exist in our organization, in Osakidetza and in the Department of Health. We've missed a chance, but it's so clear. And he says, man, look at the court ruling; if I don't care, if I'm a very quiet person. I've already looked at the court ruling, but a lot of people who've seen that court ruling... The editorial of the other day also of a newspaper of wide circulation. They just don't believe it! People have kept saying, but this is what it is! The people of Cruces, the technicians of the department who have collaborated in this research process, but this is what it is! So who was prestigious and who was not prestigious Osakidetza? The other day I was at a meeting of medical friends... Hey, Jota, with all these criticisms you make of Osakidetza, don't take a little care of the... And I told them: whenever I criticize Osakidetza, I always say that I defend the public health system, that I defend his abilities, his potentialities and the work of every day of his people, my friends and my friends. But to defend Osakidetza is to democratize it, it is to remove the people who destroy it! It's taking away people that harm your prestige! Yes, it is! And Margüello was damaging Osakidetza's prestige, because he was a corrupt! That's right; I don't get involved in other matters. And politically this government has lost an opportunity. That's the truth! I share some reflections made by the parliamentarian Orbegozo; obviously, I thank the repeated and exhaustive reflections of the parliamentarian Red, of the comrade Garrido and of the companion Eva Blanco. The level of unification we have reached is unprecedented in this Parliament, if there were not four or five clear things. Parliament must make its own decisions, and that is called the committee of inquiry and the committee of inquiry's opinion! And since we (the opposition, the government...) do not see what we are discussing, who is going to see it? Who? Juan Luis Ibarra? Who? We and we defend our decisions and our democratic instruments of debate. And this is the game, Kerman; it's not another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u61	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u62	Well, once again, the Basque Nationalist Party is in evidence. When cases of corruption affect other parties, total demand; of course, total demand; but, when they affect the Basque Nationalist Party, it is assumed that, of course, the Nationalist Party cannot have any stain and, if it has any stain, it must be covered. Well, look, there are cases of corruption that affect the Basque Nationalist Party, and the Basque Nationalist Party cannot turn its back on actions that have been irregular, such as the one we are currently assessing and ratifying in very clear research findings, where there were clear irregularities in the hiring of various health services in Osakidetza. Irregularities continuously over time, irregularities repeated over time. Irregularities that occurred despite continuous reports of legality and warnings of legality. We are talking about reports, which later corroborated these irregularities. We are talking about how authorisation is cancelled to an ad hoc company Certain health services can be arranged, but never the management of waiting lists. The procedure was null and void. It was null and void, because the authorization to this undertaking was addicted to its origin. The conclusions are very clear, they are very clear, and the PNV today turns its back on those conclusions. As the PNV also turns its back on other cases of corruption and does not mean anything in relation, for example, to the case of De Miguel, which affects people linked to the Basque Nationalist Party, where we are talking about more than 20 crimes, 26 accused people, people who have had high responsibilities in the Basque Nationalist Party. All right, it's enough to hold the other responsibilities together and that the PNV assumes no responsibility for anything. And that, in the face of facts that have been found in which irregularities have occurred, look elsewhere. And, Mr Orbegozo, the sentence is not firm, and you know it is not firm, and you know what the Prosecutor's petitions have been and what crimes they charge those people with in the Prosecutor's petitions, and what penalties they have applied for; if you know it. And the ruling of the Bizkaia Provincial Court is not final and is pending appeal. And these people have been condemned, at least, by prevarication. And these people were friends and had a personal relationship with Mr. Incan. And these people weren't simple. Osakidetza's doctors, as Mr Erkoreka told us the other day. No, no, no, no, One was the quality head of the hospital of Cruces and the other was head of the Territorial Health of Bizkaia, posts that are of free designation. You're not going to tell me they're not free-standing positions. Mr. Uria said: dishonor. It is that, when the responsibilities are not assumed and when the irregularities and possible corruptions and cases of corruption are addressed, the systems are discredited, and the case of the OPE that comes to light is brought back to light. When those responsible for Osakidetza do not assume and do not clarify actions that have to do with specific irregularities, they can sow a shadow of doubt about the system and about the professionals, and, of course, that is not what the People's Party wants. And what the People's Party wants is for us to come to the end and that, when there are irregularities that have been found and, in this case, signs of leaks in the OPE of Osakidetza, it wants the facts to be clarified and it wants the department to debug responsibilities, because precisely we believe in the public health system, because precisely we believe that it is one of the most valued systems, because precisely it is thanks to the prestige of all the professionals working in our public health, because precisely there are many things at stake, and because precisely there are people who are playing their future, there can be no shadow of doubt about the system. I therefore appeal here once again to assume the responsibilities of what is at stake, of course, if we want the system to be a system of prestige, as is now being valued by the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u63	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists? I don't need to talk to Miss Rojo. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u64	Yes, I thank Mr Orbegozo for being a little more explicit in his speech than in his amendment, because his amendment was a declaration of intent; it is more of a typical amendment that could be used for the case of Miguel, for Margüello, for Karrantzako Minda, for the black cards. Yes, it is true that you have now been more explicit, but I, for my part, believe that there is no intention of joining anyone with anything, what happens is that you also have to admit that each one in his or her moment has to endure his or her backpack, that you have to endure his or her backpack. And of course, Mr Erkoreka was telling us, after the Governing Council the day the sentence came out..., it seemed to us that this is already closed, it is already forgotten, sentence, finished, here is nothing and it is also that jolin! They're not high-ranking government officials. No, because the former councillor has not been convicted, but, well, we have José Carlos Margüello, the former head of quality of the hospital of Cruces, the former director of health of Bizkaia, José Ramón Elorriaga, and Mari Nieves Fernández. I think at least one of these people – if I'm not mistaken – is a position of free designation; I think it is, right? So, who's signing? One person, Mr. Elorriaga. Who's signing? The government, some government official, I understand that at that time, yes; not Mr. Darpón now, the previous one I suppose, right? Well, then there was political responsibility. What can we do for the future? Okay, let's see what we can do in the future, but we have to admit that in the past, too, something happened and not do so with the sentence, right? [[He made a gesture with his hands.]] I respect the sentence, they say. Well... We too have said this, although we do not share it, but also respect parliamentary work, respect for those 38 meetings and 51 appearances. That time has passed and that things have been fulfilled? You have it very easy; close the chapter: come to Parliament, come to Parliament and say: look, gentlemen, the sentence of the Margüello case has come out. This was recommended, this, this and this we have done, but it is that we must call the government and, when you want, Mr Darpón has us used, more or less once every two months, to come and explain something to us. Listen, if you're interested and you want to close the chapter, come to the committee and tell us what happened then, tell us what they're going to do. I am not going to mess with the famous photo, nor with the famous letter; everyone does what he considers and wants, obviously, and it can be understood that, at some point, because he has blind faith in someone or because he believes pointy feet in something or someone, he positions himself and then he is wrong. I can understand that, but they say rectifying is wise. Nor do I have to tell you what you have to do; but, well, there are three people right now who are in the department who appeared in that letter standing in favour of some of those convicted of prevarication crimes, which is also not a minor matter. I will explain to Mr Orbegozo why at least this Member does not allow the point vote, because it is not an impulse, I assure him; I have reasons, and I will explain them to you – I hope you understand –: Well, this negotiation starts Monday at nine and a half in the morning, by e-mail. All the speakers included, you too, the five spokespersons, in an exercise, I think, of transparency, we began to negotiate, we started to talk; six, seven cross-mails; you, observer in recipients, observer, not a word, not a word, you did not want to enter into the negotiation, at least, not with this group. It gives me the feeling that what you've done is lay eggs in all the baskets, and when you've seen that you had the empty basket, see if we can vote for points. Hey, the negotiations... I think you know me perfectly; I don't bite, Mr Orbegozo, I don't bite; I think you know me perfectly, and I can understand that we are negotiating a point and that at some point you say, "I'm not interested in going on; I'm sorry, I'm getting out." Look, in that case, he would have accepted the point vote, but he had no interest in negotiating, at least with us. Not a phone call, not an answer to the emails, not an answer to the emails... You have not answered me, Mr Orbegozo, not one; you have not wanted to negotiate. Now you're asking me to vote for points? Look, of course, I don't like to play that game, and since I don't like to play that game because I don't really usually do, I don't like to be played like that with me; so, from the conviction and with reasons, I'm convinced that you don't have to let him vote for points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Finally, Eucabertarians, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, it's not the first time you've refused to vote on points, I don't know whether it's the same rice or not, but when I picked it up, I said, five minutes after I picked it up: "Hola, tumos de acerdo con la propesta transaccional que nos passe el viernes." Do you think he's trying to get rid of me? " start with a word or two... Then, those reasons for refusing to vote on points will be believed by you; of course, we are not convinced much less. However, it is appreciated that at least he has answered the question why they do not accept it. In any case, Mr Uria, that there has already been trial, that there has already been trial, that the trial has already been, is that it seems that you are going late, that is, two weeks late, four weeks late, several years late, we do not know, but you are going late. He goes on to say: you cannot cover corruption, clientelism with the heads of service, those who know Margüello, that one is friend of the other, etc., etc.; yesterday in the commission he jumped with that to see who has the longest... Repaint them, repaint the speeches; moderate the language a little, even out of respect for this House. One thing is to prestige the work of this House and another is to become a witch apprentice playing judge. What is it that bothers you? That the sentence rebuts the entire story, rebuts all the arguments that have been making so far and, in fact, have had the opportunity to tell us what recommendations have not been met by the Government, and no one has made any reference to the recommendations; moreover, I have told you clearly: come here, and tell us what has not been fulfilled, that we have ended before; what has not been fulfilled... No one has come here to clarify anything, because it does not matter to them, just as to the conclusions; they are left with those that interest them and, instead, the important ones, the bottom ones, the 12th and the 13th, repair them, Mrs Garrido, the 12th and the 13th, those ones do not mention them. Why? Because once again the story sets them on their feet. Take the subject back from the writing, the photo, the famous photo, once again. That there is no photo, it's not true, it's based on arguments that have no basis... That there is no photo, there is no photo; there is a writing that says exactly the opposite of what you say, exactly the opposite. And besides, Mr.Uria, it seems to me very serious what you say, that of becoming a judge because yes; where are the rights of the parties, of those 50 participants; some would come at ease, others, instead, came because they had to come. What do we know about leaks? Who did the leaks? Who protects these people's rights? The right to defence, of contradiction, where is all that? Do you really think you are capable of conducting a judicial process with all the guarantees in this Parliament, which is ultimately a political body? "Nosstros no compartimus eses concilosis y, como le dichotes, it has been clear that we can't vote in point of time, and it is clear what the purpose of this enterprise was, and that it is precisely the intention of the Eustros no Commpartimus, although there was no foundation for a judge to say that these foundations do not exist; Throw, throw, and there'll be something left, open the filth, and there'll be something left. So, to say that, we, Mrs. Blanco, are going to abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, the populars and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u68	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mertion, introduced by the members of the EH Collectors, in order to develop the six recommendations of high-level education by the European Committee. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Trouble has her word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u69	Good noon, all of you, and thank you, Madame, at the head of the table. It is not easy times to talk of Europe; it is time for different narratives: On one side, brexit The populists of the government are ascending, on the one hand, and there are even those who oppose the people in this European Union. Different languages formerly divided us, but the knowledge of the second and third language has facilitated communication. Some maintain that democratic values must lose weight, whilst all the doors open to the most barbarous part of the economy: they defend an uncivilized liberal economicism. And for many others, the concept of the European Union will always be associated with a democratic value, and the economic economy will serve, the cultural liberalism, the people, the social basis, and the rights in the middle. The example of Europe which we see reflects more of its values than anything else, and what we have written on this motive has served to reflect our values. And if there are subjects that share Europe's projects, there are others that have been useful to each other or to each other, such as the Erasmus program. There are millions of students who have passed the limits, known new cultures, studied them, and made them new in the world. In November 2017, the European Board fired the contribution to strengthen European identity through education and culture. And looking to the future of Europe, we took the proposition of the European Space of Education in 2025, and we believe that we must develop it, as we have received it and agreed on. Hence, at the first point of our desire to make this confession of the legislature, to make this confession of the political groups which we make the legislature, and to prolong the same confession to our university system, which is important for us to receive a proper work and a career. Asteburu honetan, Juanjo Álvarez EHUko katedradunak artikulu bat kaleratu du, UPV/EHU, engine of our society It was also mentioned in this case that I agree with him, that above the utilitarian and mechanist value which some of them give to the university, the natural values must be strengthened, and that this must extend to the whole educational system, dismembering arithmeticism, and giving rise to critical thought, intellectual honesty, responsibility, and such values. And he remembered the idea that Balluerka, the rector, had uttered at the beginning of his apprenticeship: to acquire excellence in formation and enquiry, and to preserve the welfare of the euscal society, by creating and sharing knowledge. And all this with excellence, but at the same time without religiousism. That message of excellence in training and research, without falling into elitism, that of a university for all, how can we not share it? And he also set, as an example, in the article, one of the people I think is most worthy of admiration in our country, the professor of physics and possessor of many more distinctions and recognitions, Pedro Miguel Etxenike. Few people will have achieved a higher level of excellence in their work. We can remember his career as an Education Advisor and, later, his extensive career in the field of physics. And, from that intellectual excellence, Pedro Miguel Etxenike affirms that the essential characteristic of a public university must be to care for, care for young people and to care for and train people, and that this care is the symbol of excellence. And that's excellence without elitism. And that is also what we intend today to gather and promote in this initiative: excellence in a society without elitism. And in this enterprise, we have also taken the rated proposals, which must be given in order to guard and form people for the rest of our life's discipline. Aldakorra's mouth yes; dago bistan hours. We have the interinstitutional declaration on the European Pillar of Social Rights, which states that everyone has the right to an inclusive and quality education, training and lifelong learning, in order to maintain and acquire skills that enable him to participate fully in society and successfully manage transitions in the labour market. We talked about the Göteborg Summit of November 17 with its contribution to strengthening European identity through education and culture, but we must not forget that, in December 2017, the European Council also urges Member States, the Council and the Commission to promote work on a number of key initiatives, with the Erasmus Plus Programme at European universities, and to explore possible measures aimed at addressing the challenges posed by digitisation-related capabilities; the need for an inclusive approach based on lifelong learning. Today, this Parliament is debating and pushing these points: "With rapid technological progress and the corresponding changes in job profiles and requirements, lifelong learning needs to be based on close collaboration and synergies between work and training contexts". On the second point of this initiative, we note that we need to adapt to that reality. Also the Reflection paper on the direction of globalization The next university plan will be presented, which will take place for the next four years. And it is well to receive it from now on. That doesn't mean nothing's been done. OCWa (Open Courtese Ware) was long ago started, or such platforms as Moodle, or virtual campus. But we also wish to remark that we must make a quantum step, because we shall find more and more of the students of two kinds: on the one hand, the students who come directly from the second school, and who will devote their whole course to the process of learning, and on the other hand the students who are working, who have more than one another a formation, but who are willing to change the science world, or to develop a thorough study or specialization. I think that we all have, for instance, the plan UEU brought to the Board of Education together with EHU: to offer the work of association, the master's master's master a master's master's master's master, and in a renewed manner. And these will be more and more, and we all know that. So it's best to establish an legal umbrella for that purpose and protect the different political teams. Besides, apart from multiplying the demands, they will expand. The digitalization will be both in order to develop specific capabilities, and the intermediate in order to acquire many other qualities. And we want to consider that even in the University Plan, combining online discipline and presence, with new formats, renewing and combining improvements. Europako hezkuntza-emmu berrirako was badago hemen jaso nahi of some beasts proposed in bat: Europako unibertsitateena. The Commission intends to promote the creation of at least 20 European universities by 2024, and at this initial stage it intends to launch pilot projects. The document states that "Europe has a long and proud tradition of universities, which collaborate across borders. The new 'European universities', composed of ascending networks of universities, should bring cross-border cooperation to the next level of ambition, where higher education institutions with a vision and values to develop joint long-term institutional strategies in the fields of education, research and innovation of the highest quality. European universities should promote the development of open and highly integrated curricula combining modules in different countries." This, too, we have received at the fourth point, and even here, it must be said that at this moment it is reality in our colleges and that we are trying to help to develop it. It would be important for our country to have a European university here. And when we say we have an example in progress, I think we all have it in mind, the School Future. At present, there are 12 students from the UPV and the University of Navarra who are at the University of Bordeaux studying in French, and that next year will do the master's degree of teacher training, which will enable them to present themselves to the contest of teacher of the French State, to impart bilingual teaching. There are also six non-Euskaldune students from Iparralde in Zornotza learning Basque, acquiring the necessary skills to present themselves to the opposition of teachers and become teachers of French and Basque in public primary schools in the Basque Country. This collaboration, this pilot project... It is a good basis for working, in order to achieve what we propose at that fourth point, to achieve a European university in this cross-border collaboration. And the final point is that of internationalization, and here again is the first confession. I don't have any data on the entire college system, but I don't have the EHUs, and the year before, at 2017-2010-2010, at the study school, in an international motion program that was part of 1.650 students, that is to say, an international move program that was made by 22,5. Erasmus, Latin America, or some places inside the program. And it must also be remembered that the object which the European Union established for 2020 was to have this percentage of 20%, so that in this case, in mobile life, we have acquired excellence. In the previous study, the 1st 181 students came inside an international mobile program, which means that our colleges are also attractive to these students, and I think there must be something to show. And therefore on this point, on the fifth point, we have stated that the eucharation of internationalization must also be a axis. There are students of several countries who usually come in these Erasmus, the first thing they do is to plunge into an eucalyptic course, and then learn to keep up at our university. And therefore we must consider that our scholars are of the highest value to acquire the third and fourth language (the English, French, German, or whatever it may be), and that it is necessary to study them in our education system, from our culture to give its place to the cradle. But to remember, too, that it is important for those who come from without, and that some of them, too, have learned to learn afterwards, and therefore, outside, it must be the axis of our projects, which our society requires to receive the eulogies of the eumancipative professionals; we need euphoric professors, eupscal doctors, euscal philosophers, euccanic psychologists; we need euccanic professionals of all kinds. That's why we need to use a little bit of high-quality education. And, too, I must remember that the eloquent and eloquent professors EHU offer several lessons in a third language. There are 753 lessons that are offered in degree and 322 in maths class. I think we've made a good deal, and what's more important is that we have a deal to make, so we're clear about this deal and we're looking forward to it, a lot of ambition for our people, but without religiousism... In favor of learning the third and fourth language, but of the eucalyptic. It's easy for our students to move and attract the outside. And based on improvement and innovation, the acquisition of European college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group, Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, good morning... Everyone, almost late. Let's see, we are today on a motion leading to the publication on 17 November 2017 of the European Commission's contribution to the "Strengthening European identity through education and culture", in which, with regard to education, it makes six recommendations under the heading The future of Europe: towards a European education area in 2025 And I think that, with this document... I think we all agree. But, let's see, let's see exactly what this document says. He talks about learning languages that strengthen communication between Europeans to strengthen European identity. Moreover, he said that he established English as the first and main foreign language to learn, which in some countries was compulsory. That's what you set up. Why, what are we talking about here? We are talking about that Europeans can talk to each other, we can understand each other, we can understand each other, and that is what this document emphasizes. Moreover, he says that one in two Europeans only speaks and understands their mother tongue. And he notes it with great concern. And only one in four can have a conversation in two other languages. This concerns the European Commission. And that's why he's telling us that to understand each other, we have to have a free language. It also talks about lifelong learning, as the previous Member of Parliament has told us. But I also want to tell you one thing: sometimes we talk about lifelong learning and we think about people who join university at a late age, etc., etc. That is not what this document, Gothenburg, emphasises. It is also with concern that 20% of people of working age across Europe have low literacy, literacy and numeracy skills. We are talking about 20% of the European population of working age. Low levels in reading, writing and calculus. And 44% have few or no – 19%, the fifth – digital skills. This is what you see. And that's what we're talking about here, when we talk about continuing education. And, of course, we have been strong advocates – and I believe that we have expressed it both from this rostrum and in the education commissions – of continuing adult education. And anyone who wants to make an effort in that direction, of course, will count on our support. Then, as the previous Member has also pointed out, she talks about the mobility of young people. If we want to have a European identity, people have to know each other, and they have to travel and they have to relate. And one of the most important ways to do this is Erasmus+. At present, only 3.7% of students who could make an erasmus do so. And it is set as a goal by 2025 that 7.5% of students go to Erasmus. And you know what would make this so much easier? Learn English. Because we have a pretty low percentage of Erasmus here, and knowing English would make it easier. Because, of course, in Britain you can know English – that we do not know whether Britain will or will not continue within the framework of the European Union, but Ireland will – but the same is true in Germany and the same is true in the Nordic countries that are within the European Union. This would be facilitated by English knowledge. They also want 1.5 million young people in a body called the European Solidarity Corps in Europe and outside the continent, which is like a kind of oenegé but not oenegé; it is an institutional organisation. And do you know what language it takes to do this? English, and outside the continent, Spanish, because there are many programs in South America. We're still... Within Erasmus is a very important part that is the eTwinning And they'll tell me what it is. eTwinning. Well, the eTwining... which also speaks of the document, the eTwinning is the largest network in the world of teachers from children to high school. It is a global network; there are more than 500,000 teachers within this network, and what does it promote? Promote peer learning The last data I give you... In Castilla La Mancha, Extremadura, Galicia, Murcia, Navarre and La Rioja, 100% of schools on the public network and 100% of schools on the concerted network already teach English in the second cycle of children; and in Euskadi we dropped to 86.8% in the concerted schools, and to 67 % in the public. I'll leave more data for the next intervention. What do we mean by that? What we want to say is that if we call for a motion, if we put ourselves under the umbrella of the European recommendations to achieve a European identity through education and culture and to achieve a European education area by 2025, we will need English and we are very deficient in this regard. And taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, we have two points in this motion, which – in no way does the motion speak of English, which is the main instrument for implementing the resolutions and recommendations published in Gothenburg in the year 17–, but it is that in two of them it tells us that the central axis in all, different proposals, has to be the euskera. Look, the euskera we can encourage, we can protect, we can spread it, but don't get me into this motion, which brings Gothenburg cause; because Gothenburg is telling us, it's talking to us... about the need to have frank languages. So there is great interest and great protection, but I am sorry, in an area of understanding between Europeans, that is not the area to promote Basque, because it does not respond to that document. This document speaks of the languages, but of the languages that serve to understand us between Europeans, and it is not discredited, it is neither discredited nor demerited that Basque is not a language to make us understand in the whole of Europe. It's not discredit or demerit... But if we are talking about learning languages so that we can create that European identity, what we cannot think of is that Basque is going to be the central axis, as they say two points in this motion, of those learning languages. I understand that an ambition has been unleashed, and perhaps there will be someone who finds it noble, because he wants model D to be imposed throughout Europe, but I do not see much chance of achieving that. Finally, in the next intervention I will give you more data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u72	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Together Podemos, Martínezion, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u73	Good evening, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It has been said that we are discussing high-level education today about six recommendations made by the European Board and other things which have been discussed later on. I have to say, that at first it had cost us quite a lot, read the interpellation, attenuate with the intention of this interpellation and with that motion that had been made. A little along the lines of the debate and the negotiation that we have had to reach the compromise, we have found a little the objective that from Euskal Herria Bildu was to: Firstly, to take advantage of the recommendations made by the European Union, and these recommendations, because there are two documents that speak on this subject, are useful, generic but useful, and I think they can also be used for our university system. That is true, in the amendments we were making, we were alerted to a phenomenon that is taking place in Europe and that comes from a process in which we and we as a group are especially critical, and I as a first person, because I participated in the mobilizations that took place in our country against the implementation, at the time, of the Bologna Plan, recognizing new organizational and pedagogical aspects that it brought, and recognizing them as valid and positive, but being critical with a university model that was heading towards mercantilization. It is true, from the effort of EHU, for example, that the plates have not been raised in our public college in the state and in Europe, but the general image of the university system is not that figure that reflects EHU. We're seeing more and more, casi como setas. And why is that happening? For for the different conditions, for the legal frame, first and first, and also for the preparation of life, and also for the hours of labour and the platitude, and again, I repeat, how much learning is worth in those Universities. Or how much it will cost, as society or country, the City of Bilbo and the Blues of Biscay, as if they were at an auction, to sell the floors to private and elite schools in the world; what's going to happen or what's going to happen in the Prestinard or Deus Erriber, rather with the planning that they're doing. That's what I'm saying in a very humble way that we were trying to avoid indirectly with our correction. They're out of town today, but we'll continue our work, both when the University Plan is presented, and other initiatives. And taking advantage of the motion – and it has already been done previously – I believe that as Elkarrekin We may think that it is time, rather than throwing the mess at our heads, to take advantage of this motion, to do it in a constructive sense and to prestige the public university. That is why our amendment spoke exclusively at that time of the University of the Basque Country-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, and finally, well, we have collected it, with particular emphasis, as the amendment says, within the Basque university system. And as has already been said at this time, because in that sense also said by Mrs Balluerka, the rector of our public university: a leading university in quality, in excellence, but not in elitism; a university that had to be of all, and therefore our bet on prioritization of the UPV. As also reflected in the 2018-2021 UPV-EHU Strategic Plan on multilingualism, for example, UPV-EHU has much to teach at European level as well; it complies with European standards. There has also been substantial progress in research, and I believe that the whole of Basque society recognises it as a leadership in this area, both in research and in scientific and technological progress, and also in the area of multilingualism. And I think it is worth saying, and it makes a lot of sense in the motion, that in that university space of collaboration that is held with our common territories regarding Basque, I think you better than I know, Mrs Bengoechea, knowledge does not occupy a place and a language, two languages, three languages, four languages... They don't take their place. And I think we have four languages in this Euroregion to use, which are Spanish, English, Basque and French, which I believe no one... I wish I could speak the four languages. I believe that there is no excuse for us not to be able to work in that line and that the Basque language, as the language of these territories alone, together with the rest, but the origin and use of the Basque language are located here; therefore, it is being done here, even from a practical point of view, that we must not go even to other types of values. We said, we introduced... also in our amendment on this strengthening of the UPV, we incorporated and we will continue to do so in the University Plan and in other initiatives, as I said, that we urged the Government to "support the drive for the internationalization of training in the UPV-EHU, so that it can expand that offer of subjects and degrees in other languages", and also enhance those work, also in Basque, which is also one of the outstanding subjects. We were talking to Mrs Balluerka recently: this pending subject, which is the development of end-of-grade work, master's and doctoral thesis work also in Basque. Also the promotion of dual degrees and joint titles with other international strategic partners, and we also have a tool that without going to any other kind of debate, we have a tool that European integration facilitates, which is the Euroregion, because we use that Euroregion that we have the common territories of the Basque region, even some beyond that new department that has been made in France. Let us take advantage of those facilities that this European integration gives us to promote mobility, in this closer case, in our own common territory of the Basque Country and beyond. We proposed a concrete action reflected on the 2018-2021 planet Strast by means of this action: EHU, by means of knowledge, may lead to social change. We can encourage the international research profile of EHU, and we will face the new challenges of society, culture, economy, and environment. It is acknowledged that public education is obliged to maintain the social prosperity and the equality of choice; it must likewise resist external threats; Economy resources and, for instance, researchers are a threat the university could have. That's why you're protecting EHU. This we also said in our corrections, and in the first place did we acknowledge the social value which it has, and we are in a competitive world, and the public university must also compete, as has been said before, in the world of collaboration and of quality. It is very important, we believe, in the land of the euca, in this culture and variety of geography, politically, even the variety from the point of view of legislation, and the manifold from the point of view of identity, to continue to work together. The combination, the strengthening of it, and the use of our own nature, and the use of it in order to strengthen the unions. And the legislation which we have in Europe, as I have said, promotes it, both in these limits and in the whole circle. That is why, for these reasons and for others, we have finally signed this compromise amendment with Euskal Herria Bildu, with Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists. I believe that this is a first step; I believe that the next step will have to be taken by all the groups when the university plan is presented, and that is where the proposals we have on the part of all the groups will have to be put into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u74	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u75	Well, fortunately, it seems that this debate has a different tone than the previous points. And we are talking about the intentions to develop the six recommendations made by the European Commission regarding higher education. And we think it is very important that this new proposal made by the European Commission, the one called The Future of Europe: towards a European education area It is true that these recommendations do not speak only of university education, and it is also true that the intention of the proposer was to focus on university education and, in particular, on the Basque university system and more particularly on the UPV. We agree, but I think it is also important to highlight things that are important from the point of view of education, which also highlights that report. The report highlights the importance of knowledge as a key economic resource and is a source of well-being for citizens. Universal quality education is an essential component of personal, cultural, social and professional development in a knowledge-based society. The right to education is conceived, as it cannot otherwise be, as a fundamental right, and education, in all its forms and at all levels, must have the following interrelated and essential characteristics, which are cross-cutting to all stages of education: availability, accessibility and adaptability. Indeed, the report underlines that ensuring equal access to quality inclusive education is the key to achieving continuous social cohesion, through the fight against poverty, social exclusion of people with disadvantaged and vulnerable backgrounds, and gender stereotypes, and thus remains the largest aid to social mobility. As can be seen, it covers very broad aspects, which even transcend the educational world. The report presents key recommendations to address these challenges and improve, in our case, the modernisation of education in the Basque Country, and these recommendations extend to all territories. Among the recommendations, it believes that the European Education Area should focus on achieving common objectives, including ensuring quality education for all. We must understand and recognize education as an investment in human capital, and we must take steps to improve quality, inclusion and equity in education and learning, and to apply the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights, which provide means to reduce inequalities through education, training and lifelong learning. It is therefore essential to include in educational programmes at all levels – of course at university too – learning based on research, activity and the promotion of cooperation. We must work on the development of the country, the promotion and strengthening of training and education programmes, which facilitate adult learning and its active inclusion in the education system, as well as promoting the development of synergies and collaborations between the department, social partners, university education and vocational training, which I believe is not an aspect of the amendment that we have collected, but which seems to me to be an extremely important aspect as well. We have always defended, I believe, the Erasmus programme, as the greatest success in European integration and we are in favour of strengthening it. More funding is needed so that younger people can have this opportunity. 83% of young people who have participated in an Erasmus exchange say they feel more European from this experience. It is a programme that must therefore be more accessible to more young people, in particular the most disadvantaged, and we are proud that our group in the European Parliament has advocated measures such as maintaining the action of young people, restoring the individual mobility of high school students, supporting vocational training and learning, as well as the periods of practice and entrepreneurship of young people. We need to step up cooperation between education and training, and focus and strengthen new technologies, in order to increase efficiency, reduce costs, improve transparency and generate confidence. We must therefore work with the aim of developing new professional skills, which require new digital tools and tools, which will have to be implemented, among others, in the V Basque Vocational Training Plan also, giving response to the remains of the future, especially those posed by the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We know how to move future challenges into concrete proposals, taking as a horizon the joint work between centres and socio-economic actors. People must be prepared to respond to the evolution that is taking place in the productive sectors, which are able to develop in this fabric with all possible tools for their personal and work development. And it is important to connect the Basque university system, of course, with internationalization and international strategic partners, so that quality and quantity can be expanded in the educational offer, and above all, formative. I agree with the wording – Mrs Larion was mentioned earlier – but I do miss it, when talking about internationalization and talking about third languages, not making a special reference to English. I know that here we are going to move basically in English and French, because of the geographical location we have, logically, but I think that if any language at this time can be considered free language for everyone it is English. I know you share that view, but there may have been a lack of specific reference in the text in that regard. I do not agree, however, with what Mrs Bengoechea said about Basque, because, when you approach European reality, you do it from your personal situation, from your geographical location, from our political community. And I also think it helps, because a community like ours, bilingual, in which children learn two languages, have much easier – I don't say, experts say – to learn a third or a fourth. I believe, therefore, that the references to the Basque are not too much. We must also, of course, strengthen the Fourth Basque University Plan to give answers and proposals to future social challenges in university education. It is true that the amendment makes a reference to the Basque university system. I am glad that it has also been essentially collected at UPV; because, whether we want it or not, we are talking about public education, about the Basque public university, that is, about the university of all. From our university, more than any other; I don't want to be offended by others, but I think it is so, don't I? And I think we can congratulate ourselves here because on a subject as important and sometimes as thorny as we have seen recently, such as the subject of education, I think we have been able to reach a consensus that seems to me very transcendent and very important, starting from two elements that seem to me to be basic: First, a shared diagnosis, and second, a spirit of consensus necessary not to turn the field of education into a pim-pam-pum, of political riffraffs, which can make us very satisfied but which do nothing to help the quality of the education system. I think this is the way, if what we do we want to do, as we preach on the other hand, for the benefit of the citizens. Furthermore, the Socialist Group is pleased that we have reached this agreement, which I hope will serve as an example so that in the whole field of education we can be able to make agreements in the same way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u77	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislative class, all good noontides. The topic we have today to discuss is a motive introduced by the Basque Country of the Collectors, about the recommendations of European Boards on high-level education. Our group has a brilliant European perspective, and we've always expressed it in different districts. Because we are a people which is looked upon in Europe, because we are open to the world, and, after all, by the way of integration, even because we are a people who wish to be a special word in Europe and an active share. It was in November 2017 that the European Commission, in full debate on the future of Europe, presented its vision on how to create a European education area by 2025. The leaders affirmed, among other things, that, with a collective effort on the part of all, Europe as a whole, it could set up a common and ambitious collective agenda that would have education or put education at the centre of it. From our group, we believe it is essential to make the most of the potential of education to deepen the links between Euskadi and Europe. This is due to the strengthening of the mobility of students and workers, also by the funding capacities of our system of higher education, whether university or vocational training, as well as by the recognition and approval of the different degrees or language teaching, some of the aspects that are reflected in the conclusions of this summit. Six conclusions, six major recommendations, all of which are important, and which also share a common objective, which is to inculcate, to what is the whole educational area, a clear Europeanist vision, and which we believe that this is also the case; although it is true that today we are focusing on higher education, but well, in any case, we believe that it is important for all areas. In order to align ourselves with these conclusions, we believe that it is necessary to mention some of the tools we have at our disposal in Euskadi. One of them is the Law of the Basque University System, a law adopted in 2004 and which was already being pursued – and is also literally expressed in its preamble – "to insert the Basque university system into the European system of higher education, as a reference framework and also as an area of mobility for workers and also for professionals". And it is that in this law, in 2004, many of the aspects which the European Commission drew from its conclusions were already taken into account; for example, when we talk about mobility through what is now the Erasmus+ programme, as well as the approval and equivalence of qualifications, which is expressly set out in Article 46 of the Act, as well as the adaptation to the European university area, which is also set out expressly in Article 51 of the text. After all, this law was founded on the development of the unibertsitarian euscal system, on the one hand, in order to promote the development of our college in the European context, on the other, and in the end to answer for the romances of modernization and social change. "All this, moreover, since the commitment – and this is expressed in the law itself – of the public administration of this country, to arrive at a scenario in line with the general objective of the Basque Government of convergence with the European Union" and also with its principles, also on the basis of that Europeanist vision that it commented at the beginning, which we have from our group. Nor can we forget – he said that we had several tools – a second, which would be the current university plan in force, the III University Plan 2015-2018, which we also believe is, to a large extent, aligned with these recommendations made a year ago by the European Commission. For example, if we talk about teaching and research, it should be remembered that throughout 2018, both by the Department of Education and in collaboration with different actors, a total of EUR 412 million has been allocated to these two areas, which directly interferes with that aspect which was commented on by the conclusions of this summit, to review the financing of these systems and which, compared to the previous year, is 2.5% more. But not only that, it is not only that type of data, but much of the plan contains explicit references to the European sphere, so much so that it devotes a chapter to the whole, chapter III, entitled "a strategy aligned with the European and regional context", to this whole area, and it also concludes with a series of challenges that the Basque university system has to face in order to respond to the analysis carried out in the global environment in which we are located, in particular in Europe. Nor can we forget a third aspect, which is the five major commitments made by the Department of Education at the beginning of this parliamentary term, all of them believe that with a clear Europeanist vocation that already expresses that, well, this government is committed to the educational sphere at European level. On the one hand, there is the development of a policy of clear university science and innovation that promotes talent; also continue working for a Basque university system, with results-based management that is able to adapt to the global environment and thus meet the different challenges we face us; to bet firmly – and here it is directly stuck with today's theme – on the internationalization of the Basque university system as a whole, as well as to strengthen the scholarship system and, finally, to boost university-enterprise programmes, which are becoming increasingly bogus, when we talk about higher education. Even so, in this journey carried out throughout my speech, the main objective was to move that in Euskadi we have always progressed through an education aligned with European principles, planning and regulations, because we believe that this should be the case. For education with a clear Europeanist approach, and we believe that this must also be the case in the future. Because, after all, in Euskadi we have always been committed to a Europe that is capable of meeting us and not of confronting us. In Euskadi we have always believed that we need a Europe that is capable of forming and not disinformation. And, in short, in Euskadi we have always been on the side of the Europe that is moving forward, not the one that is going backwards. In conclusion, we believe today to be happy with the Socialist Group, the Basque People together and this middle-direction signed with Podemos. We believe that a great part of the legislature is represented, and that, in a matter of this kind, we have made such an arrangement, that we think it important, and especially positive. And, to conclude, we receive five points of correction, and some other or other groups have also mentioned it, but we should like to mention it ourselves: Firstly, we recognise the importance, as the Basque Parliament, of the proposal The future of Europe: towards a European education area in 2025 We also focus on one of the issues that has emerged today from the table, which is lifelong learning, and, in order to achieve the objectives that are set and that have emerged from this summit, we believe that we must address them from a country perspective and, to do so, that all departments, social agents... They have something to say in the field of higher education. And that's what we think is important. Also with a clear European vocation, we urge to strengthen the different challenges and proposals in terms of cooperation, in terms of digitisation, in terms of, after all, the major challenges at European level that lie ahead, and we believe that for them we must use one of the tools we have, which is the next university plan, which will be the 4th Basque University Plan. We also show our interest in the development of cross-border projects and, in this regard, we urge the Government to continue to develop, as it has done so far, projects with the Foral Community of Navarre, the Commonwealth of Iparralde, and which, moreover, as another of the issues that has emerged, have Basque as its axis. Because that's how we think it should be and that it's also part of our identity. And finally, we commit ourselves as a Parliament, once again with the Basque as its axis, to support the impetus of the internationalization of training in the Basque university system as a whole, and with special emphasis on the University of the Basque Country. And, well, again, by insisting on the value of today's agreement, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Yes, on the answering day, ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u79	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Yes, I think today's agreement is positive, because it's a good starting-point, too. And that's why we wanted to remark that it was easier to acknowledge at least the whole course of the university, which is our starting-point, and how to act with ambition for the future. Mr Pastor, indeed, according to you: we wanted to focus this debate on the university. In any case, the reflection on Vocational Training of course it is there. And also, as we have commented, not making an explicit reference to English is almost because we take it for granted as a third language, since that is what we study. But there is no problem either in saying that de facto And they are precisely the points on which we have reached agreement, but they are those of looking to the future. Because, instead of going back into necessary debates but sometimes even more sterile and looking for more self-propaganda and self-bomb of what is being done wrong, it is also necessary to put to the future where we want to get to. And the first of those points, precisely, is that there must be 20 European universities by 2024. And I think we should let go of the opportunity to discuss that, that at least four of the five groups in the House see it as important and that we should also try to ensure that, with the Basque university system, we can have one of those 20 universities, it would be to let a train pass for this people, which we cannot afford. I therefore thank the other groups for giving importance to this initiative, because it was, in the end, where we want to address ourselves, as well as the rest of the main points that appear in this communication. Very short, because it's a matter of fact that everybody agrees. Mrs. Bengoche has dedicated her ten minutes, and probably the next five of them in our system trying to refuse her place to the eucha. Well, that's what I think you've made up a case that doesn't exist because there's no question at university of English euca Versus. It's a Basque axis, and even in college with perfect naturality, like a lot of other languages, one takes it, one has to study it, and it's a very interesting instrument. This lawsuit doesn't exist. It does not exist for us: I understand that for some people it may be an obstacle, and I understand that you may be placed there. But it is not for the rest of us; for the rest of us, the eucharist, the English, the young man, the French, the German, and all that follows. Besides, I remembered and talked about Pedro Michael Housenik... When this false case was planned, it was not possible to resist nuclear physics... Well, it's very simple, and I think, because Pedro Miguel's career proves very well that it is only for this that it is necessary to be eroscal and to like physics. Then there is no such thing as this, and I think it is a strange matter; What we have to do is to get on very good conditions, if we look at the education system or at least at the university level, while the agreement is huddle and the agreement, because it's a good start, and now it's because it's a good place, and we take advantage of it, and we're also dealing with him in the works of the UNPECTABIL, which, with our help, we put in front of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u80	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's see: I'm going to answer some of the things that have been said here. No one here has said that the Basque is an 'Oztopus' What is our position on this motion? That is that it places the Euskera as the central axis on two of the points, and we think that, when we are talking about a European Union document, which is talking about the possibility of reversing the Tower of Babel as much as we can, putting the Euskera as the central axis does not favor communication very much. It's that word, 'central axis'. Because we are a bilingual community, and Spanish is also our own language and, more importantly, it facilitates relations with many more millions of people than Basque. Well, let's see. I will tell Mr Martínez that we have not deviated from the subject, no; we have spoken of the subject. I imagine you will be familiar with the document we are talking about and that document is not generic. That document gives exact points; it is not mandatory, as very few things in the European Union are mandatory, but it is a concrete document. And then there's another thing: look, we can't lie to citizens, I don't believe. And sometimes one feels like it's pinching air balloons, but it's that we can't live from the air; we'll have to live from realities. You spoke in your motion – I don't have it here – that an entity I was saying, but this entity what it is, until you have told me, yes, it is the entity of which the Mayor of Bayona is president. Ah, I know, and it's not like you guys put the title on it, it's the community of agglomeration Basque Country Gentlemen, if you read it, you will see that its function, if you read the constitution document, is intermunicipal work among the 157 Basque-French municipalities that constitute it. They have no capacity for anything else. And that will be well known by the lehendakari, who went to greet the mayor of Bayona. Good are the French. We have much more capacity. At the moment we have three instruments: one, Euskadi-Aquitania-Navarra, which is not bearing great fruit, because Aquitania really has very few skills; then we have the Eurocity Baiona-Donostia, which is giving very little results, because the French part has very few skills, and then we have the Consortium de Txingudi, which is the one that has advanced the most in things like common buses, sports, many things..., but it is the one that has advanced the most. So let us not say that we will have thanks to that method, because it is not true; someone who lives there, who is at the border, tells it. That's not true. This is an organ for municipalities – not even municipalities, because they are already the community of municipalities. Let's not lie: I'm sorry to puncture those balloons, but there's no other remedy left. And let's see, and then they say, yes because English, as a natural thing, we give it of course. Well, don't give it of course, because only the 14% of teachers are accredited to teach in English, and that's because we asked for the B2, the First We keep saying the euskera, the central axis the euskera, the central axis. And in the 2017 OPE for children and primary, 740 places, only 57 have come out with the English requirement. I tell you, there are times when one feels like the needle that punctures the globe, but I don't think we should live on air. We must live on realities, and so we will make much more progress. We will make progress in the preservation and promotion of the Basque language, in the correction of the Spanish language, and in the ability to express and relate with more than 500 million people, in the relationship with Europe, in the domain of a free language... Those are realities. And I'm very sorry, but there are times when, hearing these things, one feels that there are many balloons filled with air, that are precious, but that at parliamentary level they cannot be taken for granted. You've got to pinch them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u82	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Together Podemos? Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists? Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians? Not even. Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[Words]] Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. We'll vote for EH Collect, Euskal Sozialists, the half-correction that Podemos and Eukobertians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u83	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning defending the rights of children and teenagers, and of burning them together. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuak, egun on guztioi, eta I will do it as quickly as I can, which you can see we all want to eat. Eduardo Galeano said, in his right to delirium
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u86	...and those in the middle, who are neither poor nor rich, the world has them well tied to the feet of a television set, so that from very early on they accept prisoner life as their destiny. Much magic, Galeano said, and much luck have children who get to be children. And people who are child experts say that the fact that there are boys and girls doesn't mean that there is a child. And that is a task for us to address, so that there is magic and luck in the lives of all children and girls. Because childhood is a right and, of course, a relevant factor for the present and future to be a reality worth living, not a yincan of obstacles, in which the backpacks of these girls and boys can never be their own, in which the weight of these backpacks prevent them from building present and future. That's why we're discussing this legal proposition together from the Podemos's side. The interrogation of the public's complaints, petitions, or consultations, concerning the wrong or irregular activities of the administration. He also makes diagnosis about the public policies of the Basque Administration. Besides, he advises them to improve their policy, in order that the rights of the people may be better protected, especially if they are in danger of being neglected or excluded from society, discrisited, or in social intercourse. All these activities are the means to fulfil one of its main tasks, which is the defence of the rights of individuals in relation to the public actions and policies of the administrations of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We know that Ararteko looks at childhood; of course he does. But is that enough? In view of its role and functions, we consider that there is always room for improvement and strengthening of the exercise of those functions. Its line of work, evaluation of public policies and its affect on children, as well as the vulnerability factors affecting them, because Ararteko has an office, from where it promotes and organizes the activity related to the defence and promotion of the rights of children and adolescents. And, therefore, there is already plenty of accumulated experience on the subject. But it is true that this office makes an annual report that should be the flagship of all the institutions in Euskadi, but unfortunately it is not. We hope that the compromise amendment that we are able to achieve today will really put into effect... It's really hard to talk to the level of volume of conversations that everyone has around me. For example, on the situation of foreign children and adolescents in the Autonomous Community, reports that have been issued since 2005. Or, for example, on the recommendations of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, which today are not being addressed. We understand that the Ararteko, the Ombudsman's Office, is a fundamental pillar in a rule of law, a key agent for the exercise of citizenship and, therefore, if its recommendations are not complied with, rights are being ignored and ignored. I believe that today, with this agreement, we are taking an important step forward; we stress that what they do is not only important but precise, and it is essential to strengthen their work. But not alone. It is that, at the time when the work of indicators now being carried out by the Observatory for Children and Adolescents is completed, it is essential to give impetus to this body, because it is law, but above all because it is demanded by agents working in children. And I have said this many times: in the case of children and adolescents, because of their particular vulnerability in a strongly adult-centric society, it is essential that there be a strong and consolidated institutional framework that addresses their rights. There is a need for institutions that promote legislative and administrative measures, institutions that implement policies, independent institutions that also monitor and evaluate what is being done. From Parliament, we need to continue to highlight both internal and external evaluation and monitoring mechanisms, especially in view of the data we have on the vulnerability and needs of children today. Poverty and precariousness have a significant impact on minors in Euskadi. 10.4% of children between the ages of 1 and 15 suffer from basic deprivation problems, of which 3.5% do so in the most severe way. The basic problem of deprivation is that 5.5% of the smaller population in Euskadi does not have access to new clothes; 5.6% cannot hold special occasions. Very serious deficiencies result in 2.3% of minors in that age range not having access to protein food every day, and about 1.5% lack daily access to fruits or vegetables, or not having access to adequate footwear. There are other shortcomings that, although they do not affect basic needs, are significant, because they have an even more prominent impact on the whole of childhood in Euskadi: Between 8.4 and 9.5 % of Basque boys and girls cannot invite their friends or friends to play or eat at home or to participate in external social activities that have an economic cost, which are almost all. But the most widespread lack is the impossibility of enjoying a week's holiday away from home, which cannot be accessed by more than 17% of the smaller population of Euskadi in 2016. To this reality – hard, dry – on figures, we must add others that are not only data: the arrivals of foreign girls and children, who are not having the proper comprehensive reception that determines the law, the difficulties of access to housing that families have especially with girls and boys, segregation in schools... Institutions such as the Basque Public Television Radio which records a young minor and broadcasts it without pixelating, not even the face. Lanbide depends on RGI to families that have no income or resources but girls and boys to feed. The absence of impact assessment reports on laws affecting children, which are all the laws we make in this House, or a justice system, for example, which does not take into account children properly nor in the purely physical – such as the spaces of care – nor, of course, in the procedures or training or professional accompaniment in different fields. Surely if we devote a minute to thinking, we all have many more circumstances in which childhood needs to be looked after better and more adapted to its needs. That is why, for us, this is not a timely initiative on World Children's Day, nor is it the name of a pact concerned about birth rather than about providing solutions. For us, childhood has to take a central place on the agenda. That is why we have presented different initiatives that you already know: the creation of the paper to address in depth violence against children and adolescents, or the agreement that we have reached for something as obvious but as absent as implementing the legal principle of incorporating the best interests of children into all policies. public with no exception. Agreement, let me say in passing, which seems that some and some are reluctant to comply. But let us be positive and think that there is always time to change, correct, reverse mistakes and continue building. Or we'll wait. Adi's agonizing race. In view of the Ararteko's annual presentation of his reports, we have already stated that we believe that violations of children's rights must have a central place. That is why, at the request of our group for the first time, Ararteko had the opportunity to present his report in a specific way and we were able to discuss it. After that appearance, and after expanding and consolidating the information we already handled, today we reaffirm the need to strengthen its role, for the constant assessment of the situation of children and, in particular, of public policies and vulnerability factors affecting them. We are satisfied with the step we are taking today in this unanimous agreement, which, although it is not what we would have liked, is certainly a political commitment from all the groups in this House, which we will follow closely to see how it is implemented. We have reached an agreement and, although I said, it is a good agreement, we are left with something at heart, which is the commitment to provide it with economic resources, which is indispensable for this agreement to be possible. We have not done so around that point; it leaves us worried but we are going to take care of it. And, of course, in the budgetary time that is opened from tomorrow, we will be awaiting this issue. Among the agreed points, I would like to highlight, although I am not going to read them the whole of the incentive, the first two points, because I believe they are fundamental, as they are committed to strengthening functions that we understand strategic: "Parliament urges Ararteko – or rather requests – to strengthen the assessment of public policies and vulnerability factors affecting children, and also calls for the strengthening of actions through the Council for Children and Adolescents, to ensure that the voice of girls and boys is also present in the Ararteko's actions," an issue that gave much of itself in the appearance we had two weeks ago. Today, again, we welcome the agreement, and we certainly appreciate the generosity of all the groups in this House to approve this proposal with a unanimous agreement. It has cost but it has come out, and it is to be satisfied, because today de facto That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Gather EH, Mrs. Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u88	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Well, like when we first had another discussion about children and teenagers, we thought that the discussion of this day would place us in the presence of a subject which had previously offered a free choice of agreement, and especially when we read the initiative, and above all, as we said the previous day, the Euscala treaty in favor of Familian and Childhood is signed and maintained. As we did not then, we have a great deal of arrangement, and I think it is interesting to see what we have in hand. I'd like to begin with what Unicefek wrote about the situation of the Euscadian kids and teenagers in his yearly report, wouldn't it? In general, in general, the state of our children and teenagers is said to be pretty good; that in general terms our children and teenagers live under sufficient good conditions of life. As in general terms it is indissoluble, it cannot be denied that our children and teenagers live under the conditions of conveniencies, and I shall not begin to collect all the instances which appear in the report, but I should like to remark that they are of very little importance to me, and that they are decisive in the conditions of our children and teenagers, and in their future possibilities. It is evident in the report that the indications relating to physical well-being show that poverty is confined to young dangers and families with children. And this is confirmed also by the Incestity of the People and Society. On the other hand, Unicef's own report also shows that there is growing scientific evidence suggesting that the greater income inequality currently recorded makes the family context play a very important role in determining the future level. And besides these, and Mrs. Guanche has also explained them, they are very different from the different situations of impurability in our children and teenagers: violence against children and teenagers, difficulty in obtaining the rights of education, such as get-up affairs, the impurability of family protection, the trouble of getting sick, or the state of being introduced (men) alone. In this legislature have we had agents who act in the field of rights of children and teenagers, who have given us the testimony of these vicissitudes. We've had members of the Unicefe, members of the Save of Childen... and it has been explained to us clearly and clearly. And the Office of the Children and Nerabes of the Presence, makes the reports every year more clear than the difficulties of children and teenagers living in Erder, gills, and sometimes of rights. Therefore, though the state of our children and our teenagers is fairly good in general terms, these are also given in ours, and our responsibility is to answer them. As to these answers, we have a law in the Renaissance to avoid the state of this kind since 2005, and to guard and protect children and teenagers. To accept this law was an important landmark in its time, and in the legal order, I think, it was supposed that the admission of this law had in its time been important. And now we have the pact for Family and Childhood. You know that we are a little sceptical about this pact, but obviously the protection of children and teenagers becomes at least a central element, and as to the principles of the treaty and the basic habits of action, the custody of children and teenagers and the security of which are capable of clarbes and nuclear elements. In other words, we speak of the will to facilitate all children to receive access to their care-services, prices, and quality. It's said that the politics of education should be re-relieved and the system of schools becomes inclutive. It is said that the means of sporting and social training and of culture and of leisure and leisure are offered in the medium of opportunity. And it is also planned to improve the government of family and childhood, and to speak of the development of a real centre for social education. It is also stated in this treaty that treaties are understood as transbertal politics, which are formed from health, education, dwelling, public service, employment, and money-principles. And this demands the firm and technical decisions that will ensure the right direction. For us, this is an interesting element, which is mentioned, because hitherto there has been difficulties in this prospect of protection from children and teenagers... and it is certain that the general policy and the great public policy have been complicated in the grafting of this perspective; there is not enough room for it. And then the adaptations to be made in this sense are important. From this perspective that we are in a paradigm shift, because this was said when the Pact for Families and Children was also presented, iruditzen zaigu And that's where we'd place the initiative that Mrs. Guanche brought us today. The laws of 2005 were predicting the defence of the rights of children and teenagers, and the mechanism of enabling these realities and such evaluations. At the beginning was planned a defense for children and teenagers. Then it was seen that these defense works were made by Artabanus, that the Child and Nerabe's Office were his own, and, as it were, the law changed in 2009, and that this jurisdiction was at the disposal of the intermediary, and it seemed to us that there was also plenty of use in it, and then the watch and protection of children and teenagers. In this sense, we could see that the work the intermediary can do was to strengthen the work, because it's all right to open this information that they can give us about new reality. Even in the defence of the rights of children and teenagers, in order to render children subject to this exercise, and in hearing the voice of children, that the Arlarian can fill up important paper, so we could see exactly what Mrs. Guanche planned for us there, to strengthen it. It seems to us that, apart from strength, it would be interesting, so far as we assume such engagements, and extend this perspective of children, and even to take notice of the recommendations made on this subject by the law of Artia, and to make alterations and corrections which are to be made by them. And, on the other hand, what we had added to this initiative was, for the evaluation of these policies, the law saw to strengthen the observation. Why? For, from the original condition, this observation has been attended with great difficulties, because it has had almost no resources, and because it rarely acts in the exercise of those functions which the law admits or demands. And it seems to us that when we are faced with a change of this kind of paradigma, and are taking such a force, when there is such a compromise between the children, and in this commitment to this government, both to examine and observe all that is going on about these politics, both for the protection of children and teenagers. And what they've brought with them is that the prospect of social investment is what this government does, isn't it? And there's also a social investment in order to know the mechanism and the reality that we're working on these laws and their plans... the contrivances we have, the supply of money. And that's what we feel to do about social investment too. It's true that we've been created there... the greater part of the difficulties which arise from these restraints, or from the application of such contrivances, to agreement, were different from the prospects. I think I've told you that in that divine plane, we're all handled by a más o meno. In any case, we've made the deal; it could be a minimum, but it's a deal that marks a orientation. There is a little step, and at least it is a little step in the same direction. And so it's a joy to see the agreement you've made today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u90	Yes, thank you, President. We are debating today, in this plenary, an initiative by Elkarrekin We can refer to the defence and promotion of children and adolescents. It's not the first time. We have recently discussed a very similar initiative by the same parliamentary group, in particular on 17 May this year. That initiative differs little from the current one; in fact, in the justification of it, there are many paragraphs that are identical in both initiatives. A compromise amendment was then adopted, signed by the EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the Popular Group, and the Basque Nationalist Group, and my group, the Socialist Group, we voted in favour of points one and three, because we completely agreed, and abstained on point two. On that occasion, we had already highlighted the interest of my parliamentary group in the defence and promotion of children and adolescents and the need to incorporate the principle of the best interests of the child in all the social policies and actions of the public administration, its cross-cutting nature, and it was called upon to comply with the recommendations of the Ararteko, as could not be less. We did not agree with the second point at the time, because we considered that the 2018-2020 study or incorporation plan that was requested was requested from the Department of Governance and Self-Government, and that was the point at which we did not agree, but that point was approved, and that plan also stated that it should be carried out in collaboration with the Ararteko. Well, even though we have already discussed this issue in a very similar way at the time, what is now called for in this new initiative is to create a permanent programme for the evaluation of public policies and vulnerable factors affecting children and adolescents, within the framework of the Office for Children and Adolescents within Ararteko. And then they ask for financial resources for it. And we do not agree with that need for the preparation of the permanent report, because Ararteko is already carrying out an annual and extraordinary six-month report and follow-up. And Ararteko himself, recently in committee, has already pointed out that the follow-up that is currently being carried out with regard to minors is also considered sufficient. And then, on the other hand, also during 2017 and 2018 progress has been made, because actions such as the following have been agreed: the Basque investment strategy for families and children was approved at the end of 2017; the Basque Pact for Support for Families and Children was signed in January this year with Eudel, outlaws and Basque Government; the family monograph was discussed on 21 March 2018, where resolutions were adopted that also referred to this matter, and later in June this year the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Support for Families and Children was approved, where concrete measures are also included in this matter, and this has been implemented... And it is reflected in the government pact that was signed at the beginning of the legislature between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. In addition, there is a legal obligation to carry it out, as marked by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Spain in 1990, and by the Resolution of the European Parliament of 8 July 1992, which was transposed into our regulations, both national and in our autonomous community, by the Organic Law of 1996 on the Legal Protection of Minors, and by Law 3/2005 of 18 February 2005 on the Care and Protection of Families, Children and Adolescents in our Basque Autonomous Community. We believe that there are sufficient tools to implement these principles and the rights of children and adolescents in our Autonomous Community. However, we also believe that it is always positive to continue to take steps to improve on these issues, and that is why we have made an effort to all the parliamentary groups in this House to arrive at the compromise amendment that we have signed today and that will be adopted today in this plenary, where the Basque Parliament calls on Ararteko to "strengthen the evaluation of public policies and vulnerability factors affecting children and adolescents, within the framework of the Office for Children and Adolescents, to strengthen actions through the Council for Children and Adolescents, and to continue to promote these actions to guide healthy children, targeting parents". And the Basque Parliament asks the Basque Government "to transfer to Ararteko the conclusions and results of the new indicators on children and adolescents that have been agreed upon". Finally, Parliament called on the Government to strengthen, as soon as possible, the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, which, well, also seemed to us to be important. I believe that, well, with this initiative, one more step is being taken, but what is clear, of course, is that this is not the only thing we have agreed throughout this Parliament on this matter, because we have discussed it in a broad way. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u91	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, all of us at noon. Children and teenagers foundation, basic responsibility. they must be for society. And it's the government priority. We've got to take care of the kids and teenagers, and we all know what's going on with him, it's a very wide word, and he's very responsible. We are here in double responsibility because we are mature and are in politics, and in some cases the responsibility may be triple as far as we are parents. We must protect the rights of children and teenagers, and we must guarantee their welfare-that is, I think, the most important thing. And the challenge, as you all said, is great. And that's one of the axes of my work: To guarantee the welfare of children and teenagers. I agree with what Podemus has put together because we share the goal, but only in one sense. We must continue to do so, we must adapt ourselves to new circumstances, and, in the presence of new needs, new measures must be taken. But this does not mean that it is not done, or that it does not do sufficiently, or that what is done is bad. The social modification is remarkable and evident, and the institutions have consequently been obliged to adapt themselves to these changes. Work, examination, measurements, measurements of the results, research, transformation and effort in the new situation. The offices of children and teenagers are constantly measured and examined by the measures, actions, and decisions taken in this department. Based on the demands which the interrogator receives, the report of children and teenagers who present us every year, we can look into the situation of our member, and what is to be improved is described: examine, measure, and improve. In that sense, we agree and share our purpose. We have to look after children and teenagers, as I said, and as it means a great responsibility, we have to raise children until we get to maturity, and we have to do that by their side. What you ask is done already. This is why we have reflected on our agreement, that we should continue to do, to strengthen, and, when we receive or receive the results of the indicators, to take the necessary measures. I think that's the axis. Children, teenagers, and young people are usually the priority of families. And to arrive at psychological and physical maturity... The families are the best space to make that road with them. They're the ones who give warmth, protection, love, security. When a family doesn't get the children, because the family doesn't exist, even though it can't be, the institutions try to fill up the gap. Organizations and professionals are constantly adapting themselves to new needs. We cannot deny that there are more and more wants in our society, and therefore a great deal of labour; the means, both material and personal, are continually increased and adapted. We agree to continue working and to allocate material and personal resources to ensure the well-being of children and adolescents. It is done, it is invested, it is advanced, it is analyzed and it is worked on the search for a continuous improvement. It is true that there are more and more needs, but not because it is not constantly and properly worked. Everything can be improved, and with today's agreement, it is written so. The work is continuous, and it is plain that more resources are established. The interrogator says in his report, that the state and results of our fellow-citizens, comparing them with other communities, are better, and this does not mean that we are to remain, quite contrary: we must continue to work, and have no doubt that it will be so. Reported hints and requests are instantly followed by the authorities At most, at least, it is said 'Zan', and this is a very positive data. The intermediary must be co-ordinated with institutions, and co-operation, by giving support to the pretty ones who work around childhood and the positive promotion of adolescence. Even to parents, how healthy childhood and attachment teach them to act, they ought to continue in action. As I have said, the welfare of children and teenagers lies in families. In this way, looking at maturity, the first years of children are very essential because the foundations of their personality and their character are established there, and they penetrate into what children and teenagers see and hear. That's why the work of adults is so important and the example of adults. I mentioned the values: there are respect, multiplicity, equality, life, and many others. It's important that the children have the basics, and it's important that they grow up in these values. Children and adolescents have a number of rights that all of us and ourselves must guarantee and ensure that they are fulfilled, and sometimes one of them is forgotten, which is the right they have to be heard. We must listen to them, understand them and take their views into account. It is not easy to take time to be with our children when working for many hours a day. Conciliation is a challenge and, despite what has been achieved, much remains to be done. In view of this, the Basque Government has raised the support programme for the care and protection of children to EUR 34.5 million. In the IV Inter-institutional Family Support Plan, the amount of aid has been increased by €5.5 million. In addition, this year support will also be provided to children between the ages of 18 and 25 who live and depend financially on their parents. The support to promote family and business life has increased to 2,4 million euros. My mother or my father may have paid him back to preserve his children. Watchery, programs, scholarships... It's a lot of funk-taking measures. There is also a vision of the intermediary, and the work of counsel continually. When we talked about the report in 2017, we said that the interstate is getting more familiar, so that's a lot of work. I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm happy, I'm sorry. The work of all of us, and the work of all societies, go in the same direction: remuneration of the welfare of children and teenagers. The work of the entire educational system, the work of the Medical Department, the work of the street builders, the ludots, the Welcome to the Basque Program, and several other other programmes are in the hands of different institutions, and they have the same direction: Protecting children and teenagers. The observation studies study demography, birth, and fertility, family and society, education, health, dependence, and welfare, dangers, poverty, helpslessness, irregularity, irregularity, and violence. The detection system we have in common works, and yet when something is wrong, it changes. The preventive is essential to take measures before the issue is made. Of course, when children and teenagers are involved, prevention should be especially strengthened. In this sense, there's a lot of work to be done in houses, too. We mustn't forget children growing up in luxury, and we must teach them the value of things, because if want is dangerous it's not very good to have too much. This subject of children and teenagers has been studied and studied during the last few days, but this does not mean that it is a question of women, but of the whole society and of men. Today, as I have said, we have made an agreement, and I thank every spokesman that we have finally come to that agreement. I don't agree with the minimum agreement. But, well, we'll have to see the results, and at least we've all got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. This team hasn't run any corrections, Euskal Popular, Mrs Garrido, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u94	Well, I will give your ladies and gentlemen a joy, and this Member promises to be very brief, because, among other things, there is a broad agreement. And I do have to thank both the proposing group and the amending groups for the opportunity they have given me to participate in the agreement and for taking into account the contributions of this group, which we had not tabled an amendment. Well, the original initiative seemed timely to us, and I must also say that we have recently also discussed an initiative on children relating to the incorporation of the principle of the best interests of the child into the social policies and actions of the public administration. I believe that we are dealing with a sensitive issue, above all because of the situation of vulnerability or special vulnerability in which many minors find themselves and the problems that particularly affect them. Here, too, I bring the data collected in the reports that we have had occasion to know, and in relation to poverty in the Basque Country and how situations of special vulnerability are also found in families with children. The agreement adopted emphasizes two aspects, which we believe to be important: on the one hand, strengthening what has to do with the Office for Children and Adolescents of Ararteko, strengthening its role – which I too would like to take this opportunity to thank Ararteko for its specific reports and reports on this issue. On the other hand, the agreement emphasizes the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, created under Law 3/2005 of 18 February, and created especially in Decree 219/2007, where this observatory is created with specific functions and which is a clear instrument to be able to deepen the reality of children and adolescents and the impact of the policies developed under the said law. I therefore believe that the initiative was timely; the agreement is also very good, and nothing more. And also, as there is not much more to say, I also imagine that there will not be much replica, and that with this intervention, then, the matter is ended... That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u95	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing the answers, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u96	The truth is that I had no intention of going out to the rebuttal, but I do believe that, although there seems to be little interest in this House in talking about the subject, there are some things to be clarified and to be said. As Mrs Kortajarena said in her speech, in the divine we do not have great disagreements; in the human, of course, there are things that differentiate us. Mrs Sánchez, May and now look like childhood, I mean. What we adopted in May and what we are adopting now are different issues, and what I proposed is neither an observatory nor a report; it is a process of systematic and external evaluation of all public policies. Because there are things that, we like more or less to recognize, are not being done, and I will set a very concrete example for you. In addition, article 22 of Act No. 26/2015 of 28 July 2015 amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents states: "Memories of regulatory impact analysis to accompany pre-draft legislation and regulatory projects will include the impact of regulation on children and adolescents." How many reports of these have you seen? Because I have none in my time in this Parliament. At no time has it been said, Judge, that nothing is done. Far from my intentions to say that the Basque public administration does nothing to protect children. What is said is that there is opportunity, possibility and, above all, obligation to do more and to do better. What is happening is that we are always in the same, that there is a very big problem, and that this Government in general, and the groups that accompany them, do not like to be told that there are things that need to be improved. I, personally, am going to stay, of course, with things in positive. I'm gonna stick with the fact that we reached an agreement today. I will keep in mind that we have an opportunity in the budget period to work and that these agreements that we have reached in political terms have a translation into real measures to improve the situation of children in the Basque Country. I will keep in mind that the groups of persons and entities who are experts in children will be happy that there is a political bet – I understand that honest and committed in this Parliament – for improving resources and for improving the entities responsible for observing that the law is appropriate and accompanying a more full and better childhood in the Basque Country. I want to keep that, and I don't want to keep anything else. But let's talk properly, because sometimes it gives the feeling that we can't bring in initiatives because some people are bothered to talk about a subject that is so broad and extensive, and that I warn you we will continue to bring in things. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Anybody else want to talk? The Kortja's from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u98	All I have to say is that today was about the protection of children and teenagers, but that we were actually discussing this matter, about the protection of children and teenagers, the evacuation of public policies. That was the topic today. I don't know, lately, we've got a habit, it's happened to us the other day, and, well, we can talk... It is true that in all cases about the protection and care of children and teenagers, they may be allowed to present political enterprises, but that we have come to discuss a particular thing, and that is to say: We were talking about the systems that are in place to analyse the situations of children in Euskadi and to evaluate the public policies that are being developed in this area. And I, in that sense, the only thing I hope for, the only thing I hope for is... that you don't keep doing what you always do. The PNV spokesman told us that things were being done and that we had to keep doing it. Indeed, I only hope that you will not continue to do what you always do. You, Porque, have been the family of euscals and children who have intended to promote a pact to protect them. You've brought a plan here with a very clear planning, and Family Plan's subtitle: Inversion's family y enfuncia. So it's no good to keep up with what we're doing, when they're asking for a radical change to protect children and teenagers. Not because things have not been done or everything has been wrong, because that's the bet and that's a bet you've made to the desktop. And that requires a means of putting the means together with the paradigm of social investment. And what we were asking to-day is in that sense: to put the resources into it. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u100	Yes, briefly... I didn't mean to intervene, but, well, I'm going to do it very briefly. Mrs Guanche, I have started my first speech by saying that for my parliamentary group it is quite important to discuss policies on children and adolescents. And I have also highlighted the multitude of occasions that we have discussed this subject during this parliamentary term. But you did not like me to tell you that we did not agree with the development or implementation of that permanent programme by Ararteko. I have stated that we did not agree with that, because we believe that what is being done now, with the annual and semi-annual reports, already involves continuous work by Ararteko in this matter. But we did agree to take some further step, so we have made the effort to reach the compromise amendment, which we signed today and which must be put into effect. And we have signed it because we give it importance to continue to take steps forward on these issues and to strengthen the activities of the Observatory for Children and Adolescents. I believe that that is stated in the compromise amendment, and that is what needs to be emphasized. The rest, well, you misinterpreted it or didn't feel right. I'm sorry, but that's what it is. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u101	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Juez, the Eubertians from there. (missible recording)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u102	It's a really nice axis, and it's a tool for the government's work. And on the other hand, you said that this government doesn't like criticism at all; that's not fair either, there's always a margin for improvement, and I think no one denied it. And Mrs. Corcuera, who said... I beg your pardon, Madam Kortha's, who said that it would be the same or that we should follow? If things are done well, it's still going on; if necessity changes, it changes. And I, or you don't understand, or you don't understand, but I told you that it's not the right time to ask for such resources because the ways of working have changed, because the signs have changed, and I think it's more prudent to wait, to have the results, and to make decisions later on. Often, patience doesn't help, and I don't think it's good for health either. And I wanted to make you understand that, and I don't know whether you finally understood it or not, but we didn't say that things would follow the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Mrs Garrido mustn't speak. So, since we've finished the discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EHG, and the Eucerators signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-25.u104	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
