ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting tonight. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmates of St.íbaliz Larauu, the Eubertarians of Arangu, made to the head of the Medical Department to stabilize the workers of the Osa. " Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr. Darpón, stable and quality, is the clear priority of this government. The Medical Department that you're driving in that engagement has an important role, in fact, the greatest Basque public company. Thus, when you took office you announced that personnel policies in Osakidetza would be one of your priorities. We know that we have excellent professionals, and that is why we know that we must take care of the staff and work to continue to give stability in employment and, ultimately, to continue to improve the quality of the service provided. Public offers of employment are a key tool to reduce time and to give stability in employment; thus, between May and June, the OPE reviews will be held. 2016-2017, a large OPE in number of places, which includes virtually all professional categories and medical specialties. Thus, we understand that it is an ambitious OPE, despite the legal and budgetary constraints. That's why, Mr. Chief, we'd like to know more deeply how public employment calls and other measures help them stabilize the workers of the Osa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u3	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. President, chief officers, Mrs. Larauri, good morning to all of you. 'Eunk' has shown a firm commitment to a steady job of quality.' The health department and the co-operation match this engagement; for there have been so many measures taken to improve stability and the quality of public employment. From these considerations the offer of public employment is of great importance and influence. The EPEaks have been made in all the laws of succession, and in this particular legislation there will be two. In Osakidetza, the stability of professionals has always been a priority; in fact, public offers of employment have been made in most legislatures and in some more than one, which makes 92% of its structural staff have a stable contract to date. In line with the Government's commitment to employment in the Lehendakari Urkullu government, we are committed to further reducing time and increasing the quality of employment. Among the measures put into practice would be: the extension of the structural staff of Osakidetza to 700 new places carried out in 2016; the modification of the temporary recruitment criteria carried out at the beginning of this year to give priority to stable contracts through interinities; the revision and updating of each of the administrative procedures that make up the public offers of employment, carried out to speed them up to the maximum – in fact, the last one has been completed in 25 months –; the commitment to convene OPE on a biennial basis (OPE 2014-2015, already completed, and OPE 2016-2017, currently in progress, will consolidate 4,349 places; they cover, as you have said, all the professional categories and will allow the employment of 95 % of the staff); in addition, we have a commitment to convene a new OPE before the end of the legislature with the vacancies that can be generated in the years 2018 and 2019; finally, we will continue to demand from the Government of the State the elimination of the replacement rates for public administrations. Our commitment to public employment and to stable and quality employment is strong. The public offer of this year's work, as far as the number of squares offered, is almost the largest one that has been made; It is natural that great curiosity and illusion have arisen around this EPE, for more than 96.000 persons have registered it. These days we have also heard some critical voices with the volume of these OPEs, suggesting that they can harm business creation and entrepreneurship. The Basque Government is committed to economic and entrepreneurial development, which is not in conflict with quality public employment. Both are necessary and complementary. We have also heard criticism from the non-signatory trade unions of the OPE, also in relation to the number of places convened. They seem to forget that all those who have legal guarantees are offered. We are not going to play with the job security of people who come forward looking for stability. In addition, the figures of opponents themselves support the OPEs launched. If we want to maintain a quality public health system like Osakidetza, in addition to having adequate facilities and technologies, it is essential to have competent and committed professionals, who are undoubtedly our main strength. We have always defended and defended the value and importance of the people who compose Osaci; for they are professionals, one of the principal elements of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the effect of the General Preservations of the Spanish Common-wealth on Agraban, Biscay, and Gipuzia." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. In the first place, members of the legislature, I mean, "I believe you." And Mr. Urkullu, good morning. I had this question today: Do you think it would be reasonable that your party should admit of the presidency of the Spanish Government, considering that the citizens of Esscal would suffer the consequences of the restrictive policies proposed in the project of Rajoy's government? Today, in the place of "they," I should put them "they'd have you," but that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Iriart, whether to adopt Spanish Prestincts, is the decision of the Jestal Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u9	Mr. Urkullu: it's disappointing again. And right now, I don't know whether your government believes it's good or bad to admit these deals, because the Socialist Party has asked them to withdraw and your party put on a red carpet. In this parliament we decided that for the people of Arcadia, Bizkai, and Gipulia these matters were not good. I don't know what the word of this parliament is worth, but these budgets will be reduced, which will leave the least part of the defense, and increase the budget of the royal house and secret services. You'll think you're a good conjurer, but you've seen the trick, and we knew this would happen. And now you say that the Spanish Government will raise pensions, level of 1,6, just of inflation. That's 9 euros for pensioners who get a minimum pension, so dignity for 9 euros. And what the pensioners claim on the street, Mr Urkullu, is 1,080 euros, which seems you have not heard, 1,080 euros and from there the CPI. You have sold the dignity of the pensioners, and you have not acquired any structural alterations, which is a parch. And you said you wouldn't negotiate with 155 on force, but we've seen it. You negotiated, you made a deal. So I don't know where your word is and where your red lines are left. I don't know if it matters that President Puigdemont can't be president anymore because we know he's here to stop 155. I told you the other day, it's a new frame, and you know that. But the really important thing is that with these Budgets will charge the pensioners between 9 and 18 euros more per month, and the civil guards and the national police, those who go "Get them!", those who remove the yellow shirts in the stadiums, those who will remove all those yellow ties at any time, those will earn 300 euros more, and those who go after the young people of Altsasu. And one more thing: I don't know why the Party is trustworthy, Mr. Urkullu, you sold the electric rate last year in the bargain and then you didn't see a dime. I don't know where you guys come from that this year, that this year you're gonna do it. The quote is getting bigger and bigger; you have the People's Party in Madrid, here in the Socialist Party, now you are going to approve the Budgets with Citizens, which was the coconut, but you will sell us that you are going to save us from Citizens. And with UPN; UPN, remember the Nafarroa change. "L'estaca" kantatzen aritu zarete eta entzun zaituztet: "Zuk bullza gogor hortikan..."; for they have supported a stake that was rotting and gave it oxygen again. And this is Spain in which four ministers sing the anthem of the Legion and in the Alderdi Eguna you say you don't like anything. Well, this Spain has been given oxygen again. Eta Partido Popularrari oxygena ematea herri hau itotzea da, Urkullu jauna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Andrei, ma'am, "You, you, you, you, you... "I don't know. The only thing I can say is that the agreements you made last year were both Jeltzina and also positive as the Basque Party and the Basque People. Inversions obtained are positive to enhance our infrastructure. Economy and industry are positive. Even the decision to strengthen the edge, positive. The agreements between the Economic and the Cupid have been positive. What we've known so far is that we've got the pre-acception to raise pensions. This decision is positive to all pensioners. Otherwise, what's the alternative? And this congress also follows what has been agreed on. It's not a responsibility to hear about the state's priorities or not accepting them. Our responsibility is that the decisions which are taken should be useful and useful to the people. Anyway, this is the only truth. On the one hand, the Wild Party Jeltarian didn't choose the Spanish Government now. What's your alternative? There is no other alternative than that which has been, and those who have been decisive in order to do so have not directed them, or even introduced them. On the other hand, it's a responsibility to you and the Spanish government that's been established to keep the road open for negotiation and bargaining. It is an institutional responsibility, and we cannot refuse it, and we must not refuse it, always in the defence of the interests of the people. And that's all for fun. You've given several reviews about an empty hypothesis. It is reasonable to wait till the 25th of May to examine and dispute the decisions that are taken and taken. They're not yet approved. The only thing we know is that former year's engagements will be fulfilled and confirmed; and we know that pensions will rise as agreed by this legislature, that they will rise as agreed by this legislature. Respect for the legislative. We don't know if other proposals will be agreed. I can assure you that it's a desire and an effort to defend the interests and welfare of the Basques in any case. I repeat, that the stability of the institutions is good in itself, especially in what has begun to strengthen the economy, and in order to promote the investment and to strengthen the origin of the employment. High speed, underground stations, reduction of the electricity tariff, renewal of the Ertzaintza, subsidies to cultural entities, update of the Economic Concert and agreement of the Cup, guarantee of wage increase to women workers and public workers, continuity of investments in Euskadi, increase of pensions in the terms approved by this Parliament... There may be other agreements, but for the time being these are positive for Basque citizenship. Can you tell me where the problem is? Can you tell me what your alternative is? The alternative is the end of the legislature, instability, elections and...? Our alternative is to continue to defend Euskadi's interests. Our commitment is that the agreement adopted by this Parliament to ensure more dignified and sustainable pensions will be implemented for the benefit of pensioners who have demanded it. Alternative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about the modification of the rights that are to be transferred." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u13	Good morning. Well, first of all, of course, "I believe you. Yo te creo." Lehendakari jauna, correct me if I am wrong, but as it is not usual for the Lehendakari to refer many of this Parliament's agreements to third parties, we have been surprised that he took the initiative to refer the one a couple of weeks ago on the outstanding transfers to Mr Rajoy, also in the middle of the budgetary negotiations. And in Elkarrekin we can ask ourselves: did you also reject the agreement of this very Parliament and of the same day that it is said that the General Budgets of the State are bad for Euskadi, or was that better not to send it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, the question, "Do you consider it appropriate to match the call for full compliance with the Statute with the ongoing negotiations on the General Budgets of the State?". For, unless you believe, Mr Martínez, that this Parliament intended to adopt a non-legislative proposal in relation to the pending transfers in the Statute of Autonomy while it is in the process of negotiating the General State Budget, which this Parliament has made coincide..., that is a responsibility of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u17	Yes, Mr. President. Look, many times in this plenary we have heard you say that the opposition confuses the responsibility of your Government with the decisions of the PNV; in fact, a moment ago we have heard something similar. It could already be a problem for the opposition, because that would mean that Basque citizenship has a more transparent government! But the truth is that it is the actions of your own Government that make it clear that it is you who are interested in playing that ambiguity. This week we have heard your spokesman, Mr Erkoreka, talk about the negotiations carried out by the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid, we have even heard you, Mr Urkullu, evaluate and give your opinion on these pacts weeks ago. Without going any further, yesterday Mr Azpiazu, the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance, during the presentation of data from the Eustat, defended the pension agreement by layer and sword. I don't know what your government partner will think, which is supposed to be so critical of this pact. But I would like to go to the bottom of the matter: you are making strategies in which party and government share objectives. No one can escape that sending Rajoy of the pending transfer agreement in full budgetary negotiations is not a mere coincidence. Just as it is not a mere coincidence that you forgot to send your friend, Mr Rajoy, the agreement of this Parliament that it was literally said that "the current budgetary model of the State causes serious damage to Basque citizenship" or that "In no case should general State budgets be supported that do not place pensions above the poverty line". I can assure you that the pact that your party has signed with the PP of masters, that of corruption, that of "Let us not get involved in this of equality between women and men", the PP of "Luis, be strong", of the recourse to 35 hours of work of the Basque teacher, that of the recentralizing wave, authoritarian and antisocial, does not make Basque pensions above the poverty threshold. I say no, which is an increase of about 15 euros, since most Basque pensioners charge less than 1,000 euros. Welcome this 15 euros increase, but it is still a poor patch for a structural problem. EUR 15 which do not compensate for the rise in the light of recent months and which have not satisfied the pensioner's platforms in Euskadi, which require at least EUR 1,080. You know that what your Government applauds in public is not good for Euskadi. But you forgot to send the agreement reached by this Parliament against the State's general budgets, and it was no coincidence. Or was that agreement not suitable for you, your government or your party? The reason is that it was not in their interests, even though the Basque citizen was interested in such an agreement. Basque citizenship was interested that you would have been the lehendakari of all Basques and Basques and not just that of your party. That's what was of interest to the Basque pensioners, that's of interest to the public workers, that's of interest to the Basque women and the unemployed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínez, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, would it make sense for you to send me a letter to the President of the Spanish Government by sending him an agreement from this Parliament and telling him that Parliament approves that the general budgets of the State are not approved? Would that make sense to you? On the other hand, have you seen any transfer negotiations in parallel with the negotiation of the General State Budgets this year? Have you seen any meetings of the Joint Transfer Committee, Mr Martínez? Have you seen any meetings at which the Basque Nationalist Party has raised a transfer negotiation that corresponds to the institutional sphere in the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State? Look, to negotiate for Pretentions and to fill the State is two different purposes. The proclamation of the entire state of Guernica is present in our program of government, even in this and the former. He made a full report about the transfers that are to be done, and sent to this congressman in September 2017. The Basque Parliament accepted a proposition as well as the 12th of April this year, which required the Spanish Government to demand from the government of 58 Spain, that a plan should be set up in the six months' time to fill the state of Guernica. From the time that the program was started, I sent as much as the report of facts to the President of the Spanish Government as this parliament, immediately after accepting it. Ez dago, beraz, inolako asmorik ezer ezerekin kointzidituarazteko, Martínez jauna, unless you, I insist, believe that this was the intention of Parliament; of course, that of the Government has not been. To comply with the Gernika Statute corresponds to the sphere of institutional relations between two governments and does not have to be conditioned by the adoption or not of the Budgets of a given year, a decision that corresponds to the scope of negotiation of political parties. And the best proof that these are two different issues you will find in yourself: you have approved in this Parliament a proposal to comply with the Gernika Statute and a different proposal not to approve the General Budgets of the State. They are two different decisions, coincident in time, and you treat them differently. I imagine that you will continue to support the full implementation of the Gernika Statute before, during or after the budgetary negotiations this year or any other year, with this Spanish Government or with any other, which options, alternatives, have had, Mr Martínez. I would imagine that it would not reject any transfer because it coincided with the budgetary procedure of a given year. Look, the demand for full compliance with the Statute is permanent, the last legislature and this one. It is on the agenda, in the pending transfer report and in the agreement of 12 April of this Parliament, and all these documents I have sent to the President of the Spanish Government just to be approved. There is, therefore, no intention of making anything coincide with anything. What worries me as lehendakari is that, following the alleged opposition to the State Budgets, positions are being defended that are detrimental to full compliance with the Statute. Thank you. DEBA: Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, the members of the United States of the Basque Socialists, to the Chief of Toure Tourism Confere, Exhibition and Works (WINETC) and the eleven editions of the meeting in the araban. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u20	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, councillors, councillors, parliamentarians, parliamentarians, etc. First of all, I wish to express and reaffirm our commitment to the fight to eradicate violence against women. And in another matter, Mr. Retortillo, two weeks ago, as a tourism, trade and consumer adviser, you went to Budapest accompanied by an institutional delegation representing the Basque Government, the Foral de Álava and the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz to present and defend the historical territory of Álava as the seat of the XI edition of the International Wine Tourism Conference, one of the most important events on wine tourism that exist in the international arena, to be held next year. You, on Wednesday 11 April, and as a tourism, trade and consumer advisor, defended with the presentation "Euskadi, quality wines and surprising architecture" the candidacy of Euskadi and Álava before the election of the organization of the XI congress and the opportunity to promote the Basque Country as a reference destination in wine tourism, focusing on Álava, Rioja Alavesa and Vitoria-Gasteiz. Finally, the congress organization announced the decision that Euskadi and Álava will be responsible in 2019 for that 11th edition of the International Enotourism Congress. The International Wine Tourism Conference has taken place in European countries such as France, Georgia, Croatia or Italy, having been held in Spain – specifically, in Catalonia – in its initial edition and in 2015, so the celebration of this congress next year, next year, in Euskadi and Álava becomes even more relevant. You then expressed in statements to the media your satisfaction with what required recognition of Álava's ability to host and organize congresses and the numerous potentialities of Rioja Alavesa. This XI congress, you said, in addition to recognizing the prestige of the quality of your wines worldwide, will serve to boost tourism to Rioja Alavesa, also benefiting Álava and, of course, Euskadi. So that you can specify these benefits, Mr Councillor, from the Socialist Group I ask you how you think the celebration of the 11th edition of the International Wine Tourism Conference in March 2019 will have an impact on Euskadi and Alava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u22	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mrs. Corcuera, it is indeed excellent news that Vitoria and Rioja Alavesa have been distinguished with the opportunity and responsibility to host the 11th edition of the International Enoturism Congress for March next year. When a congress of these characteristics and its prestige is held in one of our cities, it always has positive returns for the country: they are more overnight stays, it is occupation of the facilities for congresses, it is increased activity in auxiliary services, restoration, trade, transport, etc. The activity related to the tourism of congresses, the tourism MICE, has become an important tractor and dynamism element of the tourism industry of the 21st century. It has, above all, a seed effect, which multiplies the results for destination in the medium and long term. Hence our bet on these kinds of events in any of the territories. Since the presentation that was made last year to its organizers, in a first contact promoted moreover, as you have well said, in an inter-institutional way from the collaboration of my department, of the Promotion of Employment, Commerce and Tourism of the Foral Diputación de Álava, as well as of the Tourism Area of the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Wine Route, we have developed a quiet and joint work of all that has finally culminated successfully by being nominated the Alavesa candidacy for the next edition of this congress, a congress that is the world leading event for the wine industry and wine tourism, and that also implies a recognition of the long enological and wine tourism tradition of Rioja Alavesa. On the occasion of the celebration of this congress will come to Álava the greatest experts and prescriptors in oenological tourism, an area very important for our tourist interests as a country, given the importance that food and wine has for Euskadi as a destination. To have the presence of these experts is to multiply the projection of Rioja Alavesa and Alava as a whole. Each of these congressmen has the ability, either in his work in specialized magazines, or in tourist promotion agencies, either in the oenological distribution sector or as specialized operators in oenological tourism, to make known and convince many other people of the potential that Álava has in this sector by promoting its appeal and promotion in the international sphere. The congress is organized from two days of presentations on wine tourism, which in the last edition has brought together more than 300 professionals and specialized journalists, from around thirty countries. In addition, its development includes workshop activities Likewise, the organization of the event includes an exhibition area of wine suppliers, where associations, tourism agencies, wine museums, hotels, wineries, etc. will participate. In addition to the congressional part we will also develop familiarization trips through Rioja Alavesa, the so-called fam trips For many years many people, agents, companies and institutions have worked to make Álava and, above all, Rioja Alavesa a destination of excellence. Today, too, it is a matter of law to thank that work. Achieve now from a work – I insist – group of all that Vitoria-Gasteiz and Rioja Alavesa welcome next year the International Congress of Enoturism aims to be not only a recognition towards a territory, its resources, its companies and its professionals, but also a lever of international impulse to aspire to new goals and challenges of expansion of an activity that makes Álava also a singular destination. I'm sure we'll make it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, about the cathedral of Quebec." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to you all. Last week, I think, an agreement was signed by the Etxepare Institute of the Basque Government with the Agirre Lehendakaria Center and McGill University in Montreal to promote a chair of Basque studies. The Agirre Lehendakaria Center is an institution chaired by the lehendakari Juan José Ibarretxe, who is therefore going to promote this chair in Quebec. It can be seen that the shadow of Ibarretxe continues to be elongated, reaching to Canada. I have nothing to object – all the contrary – to the spread of Basque culture throughout the world. What happens is that it gives me the impression that Mr Ibarretxe does not do exactly that, but does do something else. I've had the curiosity and the trouble of reading what he says from that center he presides over. According to him – and this is the picturesque theory he maintains – the inclusive and supportive development of Euskadi is due to the existence of a shared narrative about the identity of the Basque people, which I have to tell him is not shared, because the Basque people, the Basques, are plural people, that we have or feel different identities in the 21st century in a growing way, and that the only basis of inclusion, of course, in democracy is that we all feel citizens, we share rights, we feel protected by them. Therefore, Ibarretxe intends rather to explain outside of here, throughout the world, that Basque is nationalist and that being Basque is being nationalist, and that nationalism – because this is the fascinating thesis he holds – is the key to inclusion: the more nationalist one is, the more inclusive one is, and the more nationalist one is, the more Basque one is. And I understand, because he said it too... I think Felipe González, he said that the former presidents are all like Chinese jars, he also said it about himself, and I imagine... what is he going to tell me about Chinese jars, or us? But I guess you feel that way, too, and maybe you're trying to keep Ibarretxe as far away as possible from here. But that has an inconvenience for everyone else, because with public money you, instead of spreading Basque culture abroad, are doing propaganda of Basque nationalism. And we can't accept that, really. Think of plurality. It is not reasonable for Ibarretxe to tell us what we Basques are, because we are much more than his narrow and particular vision of identity and nationalism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In answer, Sire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I hope I can explain to you, in order to try to get you out of the confusion in which I believe you are settled on this issue. Look, the Euskadi Basque Country Internationalization Framework Strategy identifies Quebec as a priority territory. October was when I signed a memorandum of understanding with the Prime Minister of Quebec, with Mr Couillard. And the memorandum devotes one of its sections to the objective of promoting relations in the cultural, linguistic, heritage, educational and university fields. And the new chair of the Etxepare Institute, which has nothing to do with the one signed by the exlehendakari Ibarretxe, Mr Alonso, the new chair of the Etxepare Institute contributes to the achievement of this objective. The Etxepare Institute has eight chairs, and the previous one was signed, for example, in 2015 with the University of Boise, within the framework of a collaboration agreement in which also participated the University of the Basque Country-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. The educational issue and the collaboration in this field have been present in the relation of contents in the trips abroad to which I have proceeded as lehendakari, as also demonstrated by the educational agreement approved at the Governing Council this same week with Colombia. But, I insist, nothing has to do, however much so that in the photograph also appeared together the lehendakari Ibarretxe, a chair that he could sign as Agirre Lehendakaria Center with the chair of the Etxepare Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u28	Well, yeah, tell Ibarretxe, I mean, it has nothing to do with Ibarretxe. Look, the places you choose to promote Basque culture abroad are always those places where there can be a feeling of sympathy for nationalist or secessionist processes. This is the case of Quebec in Canada. There's no other explanation for that. And the idea with which you are going to explain social models, which are political models related to nationalism, is the same. And what worries me is that all the steps go in that direction, the steps they take here approving sovereignist documents and the construction of a sort of international network to defend and spread those nationalist ideas abroad, and that worries me. And I urge you not to do that from the Basque Government and not to subdue the ground for the understanding of a possible sovereignist process in the Basque Country, nor to put any hints of landing to Mr Ibarretxe's theses abroad, because in the past he harmed Basque society and divided it, and you came to overcome that. And, therefore, be very careful with what is spread – I ask you – and be very careful that when we talk about who we are the Basques on the outside we are told that we are a plural and advanced society, and not just a nationalist vision of reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, do you sound like Terranova, Labrador Peninsula, Red Bay? Do they ring a bell to you? Look, taking as a starting point the memorandum, the Etxepare Institute raised to the prestigious McGill University, which you cited, the creation of a Basque window centered on culture, language and heritage and, in turn, the institute knew that Agirre Lehendakaria Center had proposed another collaboration agreement in the field of social innovation and urban planning; I don't know what all this has to do with what you have said before that the lehendakari Ibarretxe proceeds... In view of this coincidence of the two events and given the interest of McGill University, the Basque Government considered it of interest to coincide with the signing of the two initiatives in the same event. It was the university that organized a dual academic day focusing on the cultural field, with the participation of the cultural adviser, Mr. Zupiria, and in the field of social innovation with the participation of the lehendakari Ibarretxe. Incorporating the two agreements into the same general protocol responds to a shared interest with McGill University, and this is to generate greater interest and notoriety in the presentation of two different initiatives that reinforce the same objective: to extend the cultural and academic relations between Quebec and Euskadi, as we have been maintaining Basques and Canadians for centuries. The signed general protocol specifies that it is a non-binding agreement So, the main criterion of pushing the Eastern Houses of Quebec into chains has been to strengthen relations with a member of the strategic establishment. This new cathedral continues to continue the activity of the Homeland Institute during the past decade, and the two terms signed by McGill have been included in a general protocol. The reason is, as I said of youth: To create a larger spread of interest and to strengthen the relations between Quebec and Basque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, given to the president as "I'm asking you, "I'm asking you, "I'm saying, "I'm working for a member of the Casanova Alonso EH Collecting team, about leaving the direction of public policies to Confebask." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u32	Hello, good morning. "I believe you too." Eternalization is a practice that is fashionable in enterprises, and I should call it a fatal practice. But it's commonly the enpresales that sterilizes certain activities that do not belong to the kernel of the activity of the company, such as cleaning, chaining, the production of several components... A new neliberal stride went off in sterilization: he has been esternized by several elements belonging to the very essence of the activity of a government, the most important, the ability to decide, the ability to make decisions, and has placed them in the hands of Confebask. One footballer said there was a football game in which 11 played against 11 and Germany always won. Euscala has rendered democracy a singular thing: the people choose their representatives four annual years, and then they always do what Confebask wants to do. Confebas had a bet on the government settlement, and Confebas designed the economic policy of this government in the main lines; Confebas has designed the policy of working and working relations; Confebas designed the politics of this government; Confebas designed the politics of politics; Confebas designed politics; Confebas designed politics, and, as has been recently made public, Confebak designed the employment policy of this government. This last hath lifted up dust, and hath had consequences: The Society Table is broken, the unions are angry. And therefore we must ask you, or we must ask you, Mr. Urkullu: Has he become a Confebask to take economic decisions? Or, in other words, is this fun an organ that Confebask decides to perform economic policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, you know, you've always decided the direction of public politics, not Confebask, or any other operators. And besides, I'd like to hear from you that the public policies have been followed and controlled by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u36	Yeah. Mr. Roberto Larrañaga, President of Confebask, recently said... [[He showed us a paper.]] ...that "from the economic point of view, would encourage the PNV to support the Budgets". It's been a while since you've listened to him. And he also said, "We don't get into political affairs." It seems that the people who actually run it have the custom to show that they do not get involved in politics, but then it is their decisions that are carried out. The boss is taking it raw. The economy in macroeconomic terms is growing, but all the benefits that are being generated are being distributed in the form of dividends and in the form of business profits as wages fall, while pensions freeze while public services deteriorate. This is a growth that really does not reach the majority, and you, instead of making an effort to make up for the situation and the imbalance in favour of the majority, what you do is always align unconditionally in favour of Confebask. Just as they say that it is women who tend to choose bad jobs, so they say that creating public jobs harms the economy... It's absolutely the same. Never a reproach, never a bad word towards Confebask, never a determined action in favor of the interests of the working majority of this country. Confebask usually shows the metaphor of the trainer, in which it is said that they are all rowing in the same direction, on the same boat. But I think there's a trainer here, and that government, your government, is going on that trainer. His Government rowed and Confebask carried the rudder. It is marking the pace and direction, although for this reason you are becoming a Chinese vase, as Mr Alonso said, not the former presidents but some advisers who seem to have no role in his government. Rethink, make an effort in favor of the rights of the majority. Businesses should go well, but the benefits must be shared in the form of wages and fair taxation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we will not have had public disagreements with the Basque Government in the past parliamentary term and in this parliamentary term! Well, we will not have had them when we have claimed the increase in wages, for example! Look, taking the reference of your first intervention – and I want to make this very clear on this occasion – although the objective of the agreement has to do with the competences of the departments that have subscribed to it in compliance with the agreement agreed in the Basque Employment Strategy 2020, signed between the Basque Government and the economic and social actors of Euskadi, I acknowledge and assume the error – and I do so personally – of not having shared this agreement sufficiently, even though I have complied with the usual procedure and timetable followed in the government. I advocate the existence of a tripartite dialogue table, called social dialogue, as we have been demonstrating with agreements dating back even to July 2016, and there is no disagreement about our commitment to the Social Dialogue Bureau. And my wish is that I will soon be able to have a rule that will regulate it. And I reiterate our willingness to refer the agreement to this table to contrast, to develop, to enrich and to follow up on it. And this agreement, I insist, gives continuity to what was the agreement in the Basque Employment Strategy of the year 2020 and its six axes of action signed in July 2016 by economic and social actors, together with the government. And it is the entrepreneurs themselves and it is the entrepreneurs who express the need to hire 100,000 people; and this is the important thing, the need for a contract of 100,000 people, and it is the ones who identify, the entrepreneurs, the job profiles and the professionals who are going to need. And our will is to respond to these needs and to adapt our training and employment programmes, so that there is not a single job left uncovered. And our commitment is also, yes, to reverse the situation of job insecurity in consultation with the economic and social actors and with greater participation of the whole Basque Government, for which the involvement of all is necessary. It's an open arrangement, because all the fields are open to other organizations, corporations, educations, and social societies, and we have shown that the doors of social conversation will remain open, and that the organizations and entities who want to unite with the object of creating more and better employments will be included in this agreement. Our end is clear and precise: creating more and better employment. The scope signed with the Confebask, which you consider as an strategic, has this purpose: According to the report made by the euscal company, they're going to have to hire 100,000 people looking at 2020 years. And this is an agreement, I insist, open, as we have seen with regard to its Governing Council. All its areas of work are open to collaboration with other institutions, with other entities, with educational actors, with social and economic actors. I repeat, there is no disagreement between our commitment to the Social dialogue or to the Three Table. And again I repeat, our intention is to transmit the signed agreement to the Society Table, check it, improve it, improve it, and follow it, to follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, was made to the head of the Board of Education concerning the improvements of the Parliament." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u40	Good morning, everyone. "I believe you. Yo te creo." Almost a year ago, at the initiative of Elkarrekin We can reach an agreement to put in place measures to prevent and address situations of discrimination, harassment or violence against children and adolescents on the basis of LGTBphobia. We would like to know what actions have been implemented so far to meet the eight points of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u41	Thank you, Ms. Arana. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u42	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Before answering the question, I want to show my perplexity and anger at the sentence we met yesterday. "It's not no. Nik are not said." And now, Ms. Arana, as I have pointed out at other times, I wish to point out the commitment to multiplicity, in general, and especially to answering and sexual diversity, in order to get a better social movement, culture, and co-operation in our schools. We agree with the view explained in the education environment: space without waste. For this reason, all the activities which the education system has made and impels with regard to sexual and affected multiplicity are placed in the sphere of the mutual educational education and the Prevention of Genero violence. The plan, the department put it in progress until four of its courses have been completed; the plan is in order to re-read up and to improve, so that the results of the first application are based on the basis of its results. In addition, it is the commitment of this department – and we are doing so – to strengthen interdepartmental coordination in the area of sexual, family and gender-based emotional freedom, and to follow up on actions that are carried out in a cross-cutting way around the LGTBIQ policies as a key element in promoting the defence of the principle of equality, dignity and human rights of all people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u44	Eskerrik asko, Mrs. Uriarte. It has limited itself to continuing to give short and sticky instructions or measures from one plan to another, which do not have sufficient budget and which are not having the impact we all want, and I imagine you will also take this into consideration. We would like to remind you that the Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence has allocated 100,000 euros, while 13 million euros are allocated to concerted schools that segregate by sex. We know that every day there are professionals, parents, family members in the educational system committed to equality and co-education, and we also know that these people are taking the chestnuts out of the fire to this Basque Government, which is going to to tow in policies of equality and sexual diversity. We insist on this statement because it is based on data, it is based on facts, on reports from the ISEI/IVEI and Berdindu and on the stubborn reality that shows us every day that there is an effort by many people, but that there is not a single euro budget, not a single sufficient budget, not an institutional policy and much less a cross-cutting one. Discrimination and harassment of LGBTI people is a structural phenomenon present, as they claim from Ararteko, in different areas. It is expressed in work, in the street, in houses, in leisure and leisure spaces, in social networks, in public administration – yes, here too – and in private enterprise. In short, it goes through the whole of society. LGBTIphobic violence is the most serious and extreme manifestation of this discrimination and harassment. It also happens in formal and non-formal education. Educational institutions are mirrors of society, permeated by the system of racist and heteropatriarchal values that sustain discrimination, harassment and violence. A child or adolescent who at this stage of identity-building has behaviours that are considered non-heteronormative, that violate the gender stereotypes and roles imposed on each sex, or with a family that does not conform to the traditional hegemonic heteropatriarchal model, is more exposed to discrimination, harassment, violence of society as a whole, of the educational system included. There is an urgent need to redouble efforts and further measures to prevent and eradicate such discrimination and violence. You have a lot of capacity and resources to announce candy and dish measures, in gift wrap, but here we don't want to talk about gifts, we talk about rights, we talk about public policies and budgets. On Wednesday, a high office of his Government said to have a calm conscience, and we are not concerned by each one's conscience, what concerns us and occupies are responsible and serious institutional evaluations. We are concerned about prevention, solutions, deadlines, budgets, in short, public policies. We recall a couple of data: it is said that 62% of the students interviewed in Bizkaia and 70% of the Gipuzcoan received homophobic insults at the educational centre. Stop copying and hitting, please. No more complacency. No more justifying the unjustifiable. To avoid towing, to prevent, to ensure cross-cutting, there must first be the political will and commitment of government officials. Will and commitment are not words and good intentions, Mrs Uriarte. We do not understand that his adviser, his Government, is doing anything to eradicate the injustices suffered by all children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u45	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u46	It's not just money, Mrs. Arana. To answer your question more accurately, as to the first point, PNL, the School Equalizes counseling and preparation for teachers who are interested in sexual education and who have problems at LGTBIQ. Thus it was that the Director of Policy and Multiplicity expressed it in the act of Wednesday. During 2017 120 centres and a total of 1,330 teachers participated, exceeding the 2016 figure and having a very positive assessment. With regard to the second point of the amendment, the ISEI/IVEI in its study "Equal Maltreatment in Primary Education and ESO" has already incorporated the perspective on sexual orientation harassment since 2012. Items with this perspective have also been collected in the Bullying 2018 research, whose data collection is being carried out on a representative sample of 100 centers of fourth, fifth and sixth primary and another 100 centers of first to fourth compulsory secondary, and whose results will be presented in an executive report. With regard to the third, fourth, fifth and sixth points, I should like to refer to the actions being taken in the context of the preparation of the II Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence. On the basis of the evaluation of the existing plan, the engine equipment has been established for this II plan, which is in the process of preparing the basis for a document and will then be submitted to a support team which will include the agents identified in the GNP. With regard to the sixth point, the Education Inspectorate has established in its protocols a review of all the processes in which it carries out its activities. Thus, in the field of school harassment it has carried out the revision of the protocol to adapt it to the implementation of the Bizikasi initiative. In addition, in the last two courses, the protocol for educational institutions in the support of trans students and non-regulatory gender-based students and their families is in full force. In the same way, there is a temporary co-ordination, by means of the technical work that has been produced in this legislation, between the directors of Political Family and Multipity and the Regeneration of Education. Here, the proposals concerning four great matters are exchanged: the immigrants, the gipsy students, the rights of children and teenagers, and the real subject of your question. This is what we're doing and this is what we're asking for in PNL.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Eight points on the theme list: "Ask me, Jason Aguirre Gartoondia EH Collected Laws to the Chief of the Public and Autobernus, the Director of EIB brings a collective conflict to the National Court of Madrid." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u48	Thank you, Madam President. It's "Nik was said to be sinisten." Due to the way the editor of the Basque Television has taken in court, all the collective conflicts of the ETB employees and not just the Correspondents of Madrid and Barcelona, they'll have to be tried in the National Court. The Basque courts can't decide a collective ETV conflict. In addition, the two unions which form the corporate committee (ELA and LAB), cannot protect the workers of ETA in collective conflicts, because they have no delegation in the state. So, the ETV employees will be out of sync protection. That's the road the ETB manager has taken to stateizations in the courts. Does it sound like you're working with that socialization?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u50	Mrs. President, Congressmans, fellow governments. I think today is the right day for men's violence to show their solidarity with women who make victims. Mrs. Aguirre, it's your question to ask if you're involved in your social intercourse, and I don't think there's any reason why you'd be able to doubt your opinion and attitude about the RedMingos on this subject. I'm sure it's a bet for interviews and negotiations, just like other people, and it's based on actions every day in the Administration, on the edge, on education, on health. And that's the bet we ask the officials of the organizations that are connected with us, to the Osacists and to the Basque Orchestra of Sinfonic, and of course to EIBkos. I admit that this purpose does not always follow. Every agreement demands the agreement of both sides, and both parties do not always agree. I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, In the EITB case you're talking about, it's what the law says that's done by the Basque Radio Director. When a company has outside the field of a autonomy community, it must acknowledge these employments. That's what the law says. And according to the law, the decisions relating to collective cases are directly passed under the jurisdiction of the national court. That's what's happened to the question you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u52	I'm talking about a state of euskal work, carrying German tickets to Madrid, not a purely unional and punctual conflict. That's why the question was for Mr. Erkoke, because you're the manager of the auto-beron, the chief physician, and the leader of the cheery spokes, but you gave the Zuzuria the Chief of Culture the ball. That, if it's indirectly, shows what's the attitude of a joke. Well, what you said: here nothing happens, it's just a matter of fact, it only works for a company, ETB, about 600 workers, and soon it's about 400 people on the Radio Basque and the Basque radio, maybe, but that's nothing and the law has to be done, you don't want to do it. But not, in a certain sense, a formal matter. This form will be solved soon, but we don't know why ETV hasn't made that change. It's very simple: Instead of saying that these ETB correspondents are the centers of work, the question would be solved by saying that they are working places, but ETB didn't want to do that, and from now on all questions will be judged in the National Court. Nor can the conflict of labour be brought to Preco for the intermediary. Everything, Madrid. And that's what you think you can do. protecting the scope of work? That's why, Mr. Erkokák, the question was directed to you, because, as I said, you're the owner of the crew and the spokesman of this crazy shit. And you've made a "palabra" to the Chief of Culturals. I wanted to ask you, because this isn't just a legal conflict, and you, Mr. Erkoa, know it, and you know it too, Mr. Zupiria. It's a problem of work in a company of euscals in the National Court and the National Court! This is ours. the last resort is to go from Basque Country to Spain, and you both know that. This is to open the doors to the establishment which is sometimes pushing them from the patronal in other parts of the work. This is not just a trade union or legal issue, and you know it well. This is not self-government, and you know it well. The publikoa was dying yes, on the ez of the self-governance, on the ez of the gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil gerbil That's not the way, Mr. Erkorek, Mr. Zupiria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u54	Mrs. Aguirre, it's not just, as you said, a subject belonging to the EIB manager, but it belongs to more actors. And we all know what is in the game, whether one or the other, and so we all make decisions. And it's either a matter of negotiation or we can take them to court. It's their decision. And in connection with the subject that has brought us here, the law of Work Relations regulates the jurisdiction in every situation, and in this case there is no doubt about it, above your opinion and my opinion, a decision above the opinion of your team and of your mad-goat, the sentence of the three judges of the Central Court of Esquilly, last week, of April 17th. Eta honela gave epaileak edo rapporteurak: "The competence to act in court in matters of collective conflict is determined by the provisions of articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Law Regulating the Social Jurisdiction, corresponding to that competence to the Social Chamber of the National Court when the effects of the process extend to a territorial area higher than that of an autonomous community". So I think the EIB Manager once has done what he ought to do in court. And I believe this subject has nothing really to do with the centralization of their mutual intercourse. I'm sure that if there's any will on the whole, EIB business can be able to talk and make a deal, even though there are jobs and employments there or here. I'm sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. 9th point on the subject list: "Interrelation, which is the 5th line of the Guild of the metropolis of the Union, made by the legislature of the Podemos to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Separations." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Tapia, the Galdakians, the Wild People, the Arritya Harana's people are angry, and they're mad because they don't know when you're going to build the 5th line of the subway and they don't know where you're gonna get the money from. They are angry that they have been waiting for these answers for 12 years, and they are angry that the institutions have not given them any definite answers until now. The people of Galdakao, Basauri and the Aratia Valley are angry, and are angry because they consider, as I see as a citizen, that any political leader in this country has to be clear and honest. Of course, on the one hand, even if it's unpopular, not to promise what it can't fulfill, and honest to tell the truth even if it doesn't look good. Obviously, I am not telling you to have those qualities, obviously, because I think that is not so, but I think that you, just as I can understand the goat of citizenship, when you see that in this country the custom is to announce improvised projects, such as, for example, the Basque "Y", where you did not have access to capitals closed, or when agreements and agreements are signed without a budget behind, as Mr Arriola, for example, Councillor Arriola, has told us on more than one occasion in committee. I think you're not going that way, I think you're a person who is clear in your positions, and that's why I think it's necessary to ask you about this 5 meter line. The goat of the citizenry comes because in 2006 a project was presented, they were told that they were going to make the metro line and yet since then they have had no more news. The projects have been made but, however, there is no funding for the works and even part of the journey is indefinite: it was said at first that it was going to reach Galdakao, then that it was going to reach the hospital, after that to Usansolo, after that to Usansolo not, and there they are. I understand that when a project is announced there has to be something behind it, there has to be funding, there has to be time frames and there has to be institutional arrangements to get it started. It is not the responsibility of the citizens to go after the institutions to ask them for the money to build a project that it was the institutions themselves who said they were going to do. And yet, what we have here is that, it's a citizen platform that's going door to door to ask what about the project you promised us. And it's not his responsibility, it's his responsibility, it's the responsibility of mobile command. He's making the strategic plan of this authority, the strategic plan of 2018-2028, and we have to establish in this strategic plan what money we need to make infrastructure and how they need to be organized, how they should be classed, when they start and when they'll end. Agintaritza horretan badago Eusko Jaurlaritza, hut aldundia eta Bilboko Udala era. Eta horrexegatik galdetu nahi diziut zer asmo duzuen, what intentions do you have, within the Bizkaia Mobility Authority and in the elaboration of that strategic plan 2018-2028 when it comes to including or not, and in what terms, this 5 metro line. On the one hand, we are talking about deadlines, but we are also talking about the route, of making – and we are asking for this – whether the Sarratu intermodal will be maintained, as was the original project; whether the connection to the hospital, which we consider to be fundamental, will be maintained; whether it will be held still for the important work centers in Basauri, in Aperribai, in Galdakao. On the one hand there is the outline, but on the other hand there is the question of the deadlines and the money, which go unfailingly together: who has the money, who is going to put it and how expenditure is prioritized, how it is prioritized in the Budgets. Our group believes that priority should be given to public transport in order to prioritise this type of infrastructure compared to private transport, and yet we see plans in Bizkaia to encourage investment in private transport to the detriment of investment in public transport, and we believe that this is not an appropriate route. But, in any case, we understand that the Basque Government, of course, has a responsibility and we would like to know what its opinion is on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief of Investigation and the congressmen, good morning. Mr. Becerra, I'd like to remember a few concepts you've mentioned before you started answering that line directly. And when we begin to define the public transport, when we have to manage it, or to make a new infrastructure, we must consider several themes: When do we have to do them, how we have to do them, what sort of things they have to be, who's going to put their budgets on? All these options must be considered. And he said that transport, in short public transport has to have an integral vision, we have said it on more than one occasion and I think we share it, and for this it has to be multimodal, considering both rail and road transport. And in rail transport we talk about what can be a long-distance or short-distance railway, meters, trams, the electric buses we have also discussed in this House, other types of buses, and the services they have to provide, including those that can be services on demand, which are almost a taxi with a little more people. All that we have to consider according to the needs we have to meet, not forgetting that payment systems, rates, how we reward those people who are most faithful to public transport... All this has to be part of that policy. Always thinking, moreover – it is the policy of the Basque Government in terms of public transport, shared with the outlaws – that in public transport the backbone has to be rail transport, which we have to feed with other types of transport, as we were commenting on. Avoiding, moreover, duplications between means of transport, that all we do is compete with each other and not give a good service. In this sense, if there is a means of transport that is railway and another road, that is, a train and a bus that have the same origin and destination, then at least they must complement each other in terms of timetables to be more efficient and to provide a better service. All these aspects, we have to consider them when designing a transport system. And, in addition, we have to analyse – and you said – in workplaces what demands currently exist, what are the demands envisaged, since every time we introduce, that we start a new public transport, a demand is generated that was not previously well calculated; we have to analyze that system, not only to start either a train, or a tram, or a metro, or a bus, but also what stops will have, where we will have to establish them. Then we start from all those considerations to put in place any transport system, or we should take them very much into account, at least, in order to be able to do so in an effective way. If we focus on line 5, which is why you were asking me in this case... Recently we have also been talking about line 4 and citizen demands, we take them into account, of course, but where we are today, which is what you were asking me, where we are right now regarding line 5 of metro. Well, already processed and approved the informative studies and the declaration of environmental impact of two sections, first, the section called in the informative study Ariz-Galdakao-center and the next one, called in the informative study Galdakao-center-Usansolo. The resolutions of both studies are of 20 April 2015 (bolletín of 4 May 2015), and the second, which reaches Usansolo, of 27 September 2016 (bolletín of 10 October 2016). However, in this last resolution, which corresponds to Galdakao-centre-Usansolo, when the information study is approved and the information study is analyzed, it is established that – and I open quotes because it is clearly stated by the information study and the declaration of environmental impact – "In view of the origin and destination of the people and populations to which it is addressed from the hospital, it is necessary to carry out a study of tracing alternatives for a direct connection of the railway network of the Durango-Bilbao section, corresponding to the Bilbao-Donostia line, in its passage through the municipality of Usansolo, analyzing the connection between the aforementioned hospital IAT Galdakao in a joint way with the railway connections of the metropolitan area of Bilbao, thus seeking an optimization of the existing networks". This has led us to have in the second case, in the informational study of the Galdakao-center-Usansolo section, only one approved section, and the Hospital-Usansolo section remains –let's say – suspended at this time, it is not approved until this study of alternatives has been requested. The study is currently being completed and we plan to have it and approve it as soon as possible, but we are at that stage. However, the sections already approved (the section that in the construction project is called Sarratu-Galdakao-center and the section from Galdakao-center to the hospital, that is, usansolo being left apart), these two sections already have the construction project completed. We are awaiting a final review and we lack the Government's approval, but the constructive projects in both are prepared. Therefore, informational studies approved in the two sections, constructive projects also completed and we have the study of alternatives between the hospital and Usansolo to analyze what is the best solution. You know too, because I said it in this House a very short time ago, what investments are being planned and what projects we are working on, and in this case, roughly with the data we have at the moment, the project of this line 5 would amount to around 270 million euros. Therefore, it is important something to what we were referring to, to what you were referring to, what funding is going to be, and to make a real planning of how we can take on that funding, bearing in mind that from Metro Bilbao we have some investments still unfinished and the institutions, both the outside Parliament and the Basque Government, we have to make a realistic forecast. I therefore believe that clarity and transparency is what we are going to take forward and what we are also trying to do in the meetings that are being held both with the neighbours affected by line 4 and with those affected by line 5. And clarity and transparency is reflected in the government programme of this legislature, which sets out a commitment to the continuity of the studies necessary to implement lines 4 and 5. That's the commitment and that's what we're doing point by point. I will therefore not reproduce all those investments, but tell them where we are today. And as you well said, the integral reflection of how transport in this case has to be in Bizkaia territory affecting the Municipality of Bilbao yes, but also the whole surrounding environment, it has to be done in the Bizkaia Mobility Authority, it is already carrying out this strategic reflection, and it has to be that vision – I want to insist – integral of how we best respond to the needs of citizens, how we complement each other in the best possible way with all the existing means of transport and how we respond in the best possible way always being clear, realistic in time and not misleading ourselves saying that we are going to put in place an infrastructure when we really do not have the studies or have the budgetary part. The commitment is to complete the whole part of the studies, analyze the necessary budgets and make a planning of when and under what conditions we can address them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u60	I share with you, Mrs Tapia, that, of course, when transport infrastructure is planned, it is necessary to do so with an integral and multimodal vision. And that we must also avoid duplicity, I share. But that analysis had to have been done 12 years ago. It was supposed to have been 12 years ago and you share it with me. Before announcing a subway line, you had to see how to integrate it with the rest of the transport. Then, you will also share with me the following reflection, and that is that when people are told that they are going to put on a subway line without having done anything, without there being anything behind and 12 years pass, people get mad. He is angry because he understands that the institutions are not responding. So what's to have a transport policy? Sure. It is also true that this policy must be planned, and that is where I am going. The planning of transport infrastructures – you know better than I do, because they are expensive enough and in this case it is – cannot be done within a four-year term of a legislature. Precisely because of this, I understand that the development of the 2018-2028 strategic plan of the Bizkaia Mobility Authority is under way, and that's where I wanted to go. Of course, we have to put an end to the issue of the route, we have to close the route, that is true, but it is also true that we can work on the issue of deadlines and funding and that it can be closed. What do you need for that? An institutional agreement, an agreement between the institutions, and those institutions must go hand in hand and also have a joint country vision and a joint vision of what transport has to be. I said this in my first speech: public transport has to go before private transport, and right now in Bizkaia there is an infrastructure, which is the expansion of the "super South", which is private transport, which is the freeway of payment, which goes empty, which will have a budget of 200 million euros. And yet, we don't see that same priority for an infrastructure like line 5 of metro and also line 4, which do have people asking it – you have admitted it too, you have people asking it – and yet it doesn't have that same priority. It doesn't have that same priority. And in the agreements, in the dialogues, in the negotiations that are established between the various institutions – and I say again, municipality, parliament, Basque Government – it has to remain Of course, public transport must be the priority. Obviously, you can't do it in the budgets in the Bizkaia Parliament, you can't do it, you have your budgets, but you who are the ones who put the most will in the different infrastructures put you are the institution that most financial difficulties possibly have, and yet there are other institutions with more money that don't put the same will in public transport. So, from this inquiry, I would like some kind of commitment to push that institutional agreement, to try to close that institutional agreement, because you're doing it in Madrid with the "And Basque", and why you're not going to do it with the 5 metro line here in Euskadi, it's going to be easier, I understand it should be easier. And to that we urge you, to reach an agreement, to put in the strategic plan definite deadlines and at least you can go to Galdakao, Basauri, the Valley of Arratia to tell them when the works will start, when they will end, who will put the money and how much money will put, with a realistic forecast, that, as I said at the beginning, is clear and honest, and that does not make people dizzy. And I understand that your intention is this and that's why I'm asking you this question and I'm asking you this invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u62	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, I just want to remind you that there are already two approved planning instruments, which may not be enough but they do exist, which are the railway PTS, approved since 2005, and the Metropolitan Bilbao PTP. So, well, there is a planning that will probably have to be improved, it will have to be complemented, new needs have emerged and we will have to update it throughout that strategic plan that we are developing in the Bizkaia Mobility Authority. I share with you that, indeed, this is where we have to do it; and I was also saying this in my first intervention, not only to establish what the infrastructure we need to design is going to be, because in some cases, in addition, it will take some road or it will need to be improved, to introduce something new into railway systems. We need to define how we are going to reach that population that needs to be cared for and that is currently not adequately cared for. If a new infrastructure needs to be put in place, we need to plan – as you said – in time and, in addition, in time and in funding, and we need to do all that together. And not only that, I wanted to add what I told you in the first intervention also: in those places where there is already a daily public transport, that is, with buses, and we are going to start up or a rail transport line has already started up, we will also have to make the relevant improvements to become more efficient, to reach more people and to give better service. All that, we have to deal with it at the Bizkaia Mobility Authority. And, indeed, our will is not only to define what lines, what services, but, indeed, to finish the projects that will be able to tell us how we will get there, where the stations are, how we will attend, and to establish the necessary funding and how we are going to meet that funding. Since this is the Vizcay area, we will have to work with the relevant institutions, as has been done on the rest of the lines, so that we can start it as soon as possible, but being aware – and realistic – that they are important projects, that they are very expensive projects and that they require very important and very long-term funding, and that we still have lines 1, 2 and 3 of the Bilbao metro without finishing the funding that was obtained to put them into operation. Then those realistic deadlines, I think we have to assume them, set them and, of course, count them in the best possible way. And let us hope that the whole strategic plan that we are putting into operation, which is being worked out, will help us in the future also to be aware of the limitations at the time of making a promise or at a time when we are talking to a number of citizens of an area. concrete, to be able to meet them being realistic and transparent. That is our will and that is how we are going to work, of course, not only on the territory of Bizkaia, but on the whole territory of the Community. I think it was also done when the tram in Gasteiz was put into operation, and that philosophy and policy are the ones that we are going to carry out in the three territories of the Autonomous Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of Podemos to the head of the economics and the sub-gulden department, about the future of the Tubos Reunidos." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u64	Good morning again. Two days ago we sat in Hannover looking at the brightest face of the euscal industry, but two days later we're here, and we've got the other face of the Euscal industry (the holes, the closures), and that's what I'd like to ask you. I want to ask you about the company Tubular Products and the group Reunited Tubes as a whole. Despite the withdrawal of the ERE that was presented at the time, we still have a risk on that group, and I wanted to ask you what are the keys you value from the Government regarding the group's viability, where the emphasis must be placed to ensure the group's viability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u66	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, I think, a few months ago, even now, that I answered Mr. Casanova very closely, and, as you were saying, our industry has two parts of Gibraltar, which is very brilliant, and the one that is perhaps very difficult and trying to maintain. What you ask in this case is in this second. He must be important to us, and that's how it is, but he's suffering difficulties, so he needs a few solutions. I was telling Mr Casanova almost a month ago, I think I remember, that the whole steel sector is suffering a lot throughout this crisis and it does not seem to be coming out of it at the same speed and in the same way as any other sector, and the pipe sector, of course, is suffering a lot because of the excessive capacity to install, the prices, which have now been reduced as a result of the reduction in the price of oil, the drastic reduction in contracts. And if we add to it that in the case of the Spanish state as a whole – and it particularly affects Euskadi – energy prices are much more expensive and, moreover, the price of scrap has risen a lot, well, we are almost in the perfect storm. What's going on? Well, the oil and gas sector A real ERE was proposed... I'm not going to qualify it, a retired ERE was introduced. I believe that the will to agree at this time exists, and what we all have to do is work by being responsible, being honest and being transparent, as we were talking about in the previous inquiry, to get both companies and workers to sit at the same table, with the will to agree and to get that company to be competitive. And the Basque Government is to help and to make that a reality, but the ultimate responsibility is that at that table you will sit, in good will and in good faith, you can get that agreement to be competitive. But it is not the Government that has to define what the actions are. I believe that both the workers of these companies and the management themselves know the market a lot better than the government and know what they are facing and how they have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u68	Well, since you don't dare qualify the ERE, I will do it: unfair and wild. Because it is true what you say that all steel companies have difficulties, and also pipes, it is no less true that the Reunited Tubes group has a number of particularities and that when a plan or ERE is presented to improve competitiveness on the basis of damaging working conditions, in some cases it may be necessary, but not in this one. Not this one. Working conditions are not what has brought Reunited Tubes to where it is. What has brought to Reunited Tubes where it is, one, the attitude of the owners and shareholders, and you know it because you have asked for involvement from those shareholders, those shareholders who distributed the dividends indiscriminately, up to 170 million euros were distributed, and through financial engineering operations have left a hole of 210 million euros. So, the shareholders are the first responsible and the first distinguishing factor of Reunited Tubes. The second distinguishing factor for Reunited Tubes is the current direction. Indeed, a plan was presented, the so-called Transforma 360 Plan. We all know that when you give 360 degrees you stay where you were, and that's what happened. The Transforma 360 Plan was to cut costs by firing contracts and doing certain actions that have led the company to be even worse. And, if the actions linked to the Transforma 360 Plan have been bad, within that steering group we must highlight the figure of the executive president, with an attitude that I have to describe as improper of an executive of this country, of an executive of the Basque industry, provoking workers to make a labor conflict a social conflict. And that's not a receipt when you're going to sit one on a table with the template to try to make deals. So, we have two factors that are differentiating. We have a third factor that is differentiating: of course, the company Tubos Reunitidos has a dependence on the oil and gas sector 80 %, and in the medium term – not in the short term, but in the medium term – action will have to be taken. We will have to look at how the two steelworks are competitive and financially viable, which is now in doubt, as I have said, but also from the point of view of the industrial plan, and for that we need to move forward to make these industries also industry 4.0, as we have in Hannover. And we have that Tabular Products has all the conditions to be so and yet today the management itself is not allowing it. Tubular products can be an efficient company by adding steel and rolling, and yet the management wants to separate them. Tubular products can manufacture small batches, high quality and niches of high specialization, and yet they lack 20 million to buy a machine that would allow them to be the only one in the world to manufacture 28-inch tubes. Why aren't you allowing yourself? And why all the innovation aid that the Basque Government has given, which has been 28 aid – we do not know the amount because its department has not told us – what happened to that money so that today there is no trace of the results? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u70	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It is true that each company is different despite being in the same sector, and that leads us to say that despite being in the same sector some are competitive and others are not. Well, in this case we are in a complex situation, and it has brought us here not just the actions of the current management team or the current board of directors, probably many decisions that have been made for many years and some decisions that may not have been made at the right speed or in the right way during the crisis. Therefore, Plan 360, although I agree that when you give 360 degrees you get to the same site, also 360 degrees is a circle, which it does is to cover each and every point of the plant. I think that's what he meant, and I think at each of the points, at each of the different plans need to be put in place. The company in pipes, in steel has to be, in this case, competitive, extremely competitive. It can be and, of course, we bet that this sector on which the country's economic activity has been sustained also has to remain so in the future, but it has to do two different things, to act on elements and products that it already has, but to work with premium products that attack other niches of the market and make it possible to compensate for the actions. That is where the performance has to go and the agreement is indispensable. An agreement at the negotiating table, in good faith and in good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Körr, made to the chief physician of Eplegus and Polic Society, concerning the regulation which regulates the reforms and social services of the profession." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. The Poppical Party has treated of the subjects which concern the citizens in this law, and thus we have proposed certain proposals concerning the reform of the profession and the system of society. Today we return to the recurring issue of Lanbide and social aid because of the absolute inaction of this government. Berrio Lanbide eta gizarte-laguntzen gaieie Helduko diegu, Eusko Jaurlaritzak ez duelako ezer egin. Let us again raise today, Madam Counsellor, the question we raised on 12 June 2017. Berriro ekainean egindako interpelazioa aurkezten dugu. Then we asked the counsellor for the reasons that were leading to delaying the Lanbide reform and the reform of the rules governing social aid. Today we repeat the same question in this rostrum, and we ask you exactly about the breaches of the commitments made and the breaches of the agreements reached in this House in relation to these matters. That is to say, 10 months later, Madam Councillor (June, late April), this group again presents the same question because we have not received a response in this Parliament from the commitments and agreements reached in this House. 10 hilabete beranduago, Alderdi Popularrak berriro interpelazio berdina aurkeztu du. We must make it clear, again, that this government has failed to comply with the commitments in this House and the agreements it has entered into. I will refer to two agreements, Madam Counsellor: agreement of 26 January 2017, signed by the groups supporting the Government; a joint proposal from the Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Group on the Lanbide reform was discussed and the Government was urged to draw up within six months a Lanbide reform plan. We are in July 2017 and we have no record of that Lanbide reform plan, which, by the way, had to be an integral plan, seeing the many shortcomings found in Lanbide. Agreement of 29 June 2017, on the question referred to it on 12 June, which resulted in a motion: the Basque Government is also urged – also an agreement signed and signed by the groups supporting the Government, i.e. the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party – to present the draft law amending Law 18/2008 of 23 December for income guarantee and social inclusion, in the first quarter of this year. It is true that in the legislative calendar you carried the commitment of the first quarter, but in that parliamentary agreement the two groups that subscribe, which support the Government, signed that the bill would be referred to this House in the first quarter of 2018, that is, the first three months; January, February, March; we are at the end of April and we have no record in this Parliament of the referral of any bill in relation to the amendment of this law. In short, today we know nothing about the Lanbide reform and the reform of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, when Lanbide is a specific instrument that we have, which has proved to be absolutely ineffective in promoting employment, in promoting the employability of unemployed people and also in preventing people from being chronicled in the social aid system. We only see delays and we only see, Madam Counsellor, the lack of leadership of this Government in a matter that was key and that you raised as a priority, both in the investiture debate, both in the government agreement and in the multiples that we have had in this House and in your two appearances that you have had on this issue. We only see the delays and the leadership pills. How long? We're in trouble, but we don't see anything. We are wasting time proposing effective solutions to a real problem. We have been blank for six years with Mr Urkullu's government doing nothing about it. At first they denied the problem, then they began to recognize the problem and already at the beginning of this legislature presented us as the star project all that had to do with the reform of Lanbide and the bill that they are going to refer to the Law for Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion. But, well, Commissioner, I imagine that you will say something about this in your reply, when you have to answer in this rostrum today to this question of non-compliance, both of the commitments made by this Government, of its own legislative timetable, and of the agreement in this House to forward the bill in the first three months. Today, when you have to respond to these failures, we have had breakfast with the news, surprising for everyone – at least for this group – that it will be the groups that support the government (the PNV group, the Basque Socialist group) that will present the proposed law amending the Law for Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion. It turns out that this government renounces its responsibility, one of the main responsibilities in a prime issue – we are talking about employment generation, we are talking about the first problem of Basque citizens, we are talking about the consolidation of economic recovery, we are talking about Lanbide as a reference instrument for job creation – and you are giving up your responsibility and transferring it to the groups that support the government. I believe, Madam Counsellor, that it is clear that you have clearly failed not only to comply with your commitments but also with the agreements of this House and that, of course, you do not have any credibility; what credibility a government will have that in a key matter, which at the beginning of the legislature has presented it as a strategic axis of this government's action, what credibility a government will have when it is unable to forward the bill to amend the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion, and let us no longer say the Lanbide reform. What credibility a government can have and what confidence we can have for Basque citizens when you resign, refuse that responsibility and transfer it to the groups that support the opposition. Simply, Madam Counsellor, I find it absolutely regrettable. [[Shows a document.]] You carried this commitment in your legislative calendar, you carried this commitment in your government agreements, you presented almost a year ago a basic document for the improvement of income guarantee income and today we have breakfast with you, that bill, which will already tell us what state you are in, because I imagine that some work would be started... That is to say, these proposals that you submitted to us, which were 15 generic proposals, for which you called for consensus, for rigour, tell us now that they are going to be moved to this House not by a bill but by means of a bill from the groups that support the Government. Are you kidding us? Are you kidding this Parliament when you presented this a year ago and now, a year later, the groups supporting the government seem to be going to present these proposals? But is this serious, Counselor? Does this sound serious to you? I wish Mr. Urkullu would have been here. Is it serious that on an absolutely essential, priority issue, where we have full, exclusive competence, where this government can do things... We have Lanbide as we have it, which is not a reference for anything..., already told us by the vice-advisor and told us earlier by the counselor, that the companies were passing from Lanbide and that their children were continuously on internet portals and, of course, they did not think to look at Lanbide. And what are you doing, Counsellor, renouncing your responsibility, failing to fulfil your commitments, transferring them to the groups that support the opposition? I hope, Madam Councillor... then, the truth is that I do not expect much from this government, the truth is that I do not expect much from this government seeing what is there. I imagine that you will announce to us that there is going to be an initiative regarding the modification of income security income, but, of course, that this government has been unable to draft a bill and to refer it to this House. Well, in the end, "By your deeds you will know them", and, counselor, this government, by your deeds we are knowing it, but no longer as the bad students (in the end, late and bad), but in the end they do not even present themselves to the exam and above make another person who has to present himself to the exam because you are incapable and have been unable to give the size on an absolutely priority issue. You are back on the Lanbide issue, on the issue of social assistance, and, of course, I find it disappointing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u73	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your time is up. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. I did not intend to start my speech like this, Mrs Garrido, but since you have devoted a number of hijackings to me, I have no choice but to answer some of the questions that I certainly do not share. I do not take anyone's ass, let alone this Parliament. The use that the political groups that support this Government have made for the submission of this bill is perfectly valid and has thus been used in the processing of another series of laws of as much or more importance than the very one currently under discussion. Our work has been arduous and we have not given up anything, we have the total confidence of this people, because it is proving that this is an election after election, when it comes to issuing its vote, and we have complied with the legislative timetable that this government had self-imposed, which was to end in the first quarter of the year the proposal or a proposal to change the income guarantee income. The two major challenges facing this government in this legislature in the area of employment policies are the reform of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act and the reform of Lanbide. In Euskadi we have an instrument such as income guarantee income, aimed at preventing the risk of exclusion, alleviating situations of personal, social, labour exclusion and also facilitating the inclusion of those who lack the personal, social or economic resources sufficient for the effective exercise of the social rights of citizens. On 15 December 2016, by means of the Proposal for Law No 95/2016, Parliament agreed to initiate the amendment of the regulatory regulation in order to optimise all aspects of income-guarantee income and consolidate it as an instrument of social cohesion to respond to new situations. To this end, I myself presented in the Parliamentary Employment Committee the so-called "Basic Paper for the Improvement of Income Guarantee Income" in May 2017. The main objective of the document is to update and improve the income guarantee system, highlighting four tasks: first, to correct the dysfunctions observed; secondly, to adapt the design of the provision to the current socio-economic context; thirdly, to standardise the system as part of the overall model of well-being of Euskadi; and fourthly, to implement innovations based on evaluation and knowledge that will enable it to remain at the forefront of social policies in the European environment. And that's what we're in and that's what we've done. On 29 June 2017, the Basque Parliament, following the presentation of that report, agreed to urge the Basque Government to submit in the first quarter of 2018 the draft amendment law for income guarantee and social inclusion. At the same time, we were also given and told that we had to give voice to the institutions, agents and collectives of the third sector to make their proposals known. We have analysed in detail the contributions that have been made in the twenties of appearances that took place around this proposed amendment, the last of them on 18 April. We are on 27 April, Mrs Garrido, and it has taken us nine days from the last appearance in Parliament until the presentation by the groups supporting the Government of the proposed law. And we did it simply because we had a commitment to this House to work on the contributions that were made by the collectives that something had to say, because it was also a mandate that was made to us. And for a matter of education, courtesy, we attended to all the initiatives that were presented, and the last was on April 18th. Therefore, I believe that faster we have not been able to be. In addition, a specific group was established at the Civil Dialogue Bureau, and we have also taken into account the various reports prepared by Ararteko. That is why we believe that this participatory process has been enriching. Its results are reflected in the proposed income guarantee law for social inclusion presented this morning by the groups, both of the Basque Nationalist Party and of the Basque Socialist Party. This formula of processing implies greater agility in the processing times of the law, which will make it possible to enter into force as soon as possible, in order to protect people in the most appropriate way, thus consolidating the Basque model of social protection, in which the GIR is a basic pillar. From the proposal for a law presented today we highlight the economic benefits provided for in the new text, which are called "Guaranteed pensioner's pension" and "Guarantee of income". The guaranteed income of pensioners is intended for persons integrated into a pension centre who do not have sufficient income to meet the expenses associated with their basic needs, simplifying their processing and management, and which is a substitute for the pension supplement so far. The second, the GIR, is intended for persons who meet the conditions for being included in its scope. We reinforce the dual social and labour law, working to fulfil the commitments and obligations assumed by the beneficiaries, assuming Lanbide the role of offering specific alternatives of an occupational or work nature before exceeding a certain period of continuous perception of the benefit. We also give a new definition of a cohabitation unit, determined by the group of persons residing in the same home. A formula is established to determine the amount of the benefit consisting of a base amount for all living units and a complement system, aligned with the approach that the Basque Government applies in other support schemes for families and children. We intend to increase the protection of the daughters and children of RGI families with better financial resources. A new sanctioning regime is also envisaged, highlighting co-responsibility, both for persons receiving benefits and for those who deliberately cooperate in the conduct of such proceedings, and also making the sanction more proportionate to possible non-compliances made. Finally, the seventh additional provision incorporates the regulation to enable the use of biometric systems within Lanbide, which aims to modernise the care system for users of their services and to incorporate new information and communication technologies. For this purpose, Lanbide will use biometric systems for the identification of users of its services and beneficiaries of its services, taking into account the specifications derived from data protection legislation. For the entry into force of the law to have a regulation, computer applications, training of people and an easy version of the rights and obligations of the beneficiaries, we propose a legal vacancy The proposed legislation also includes and collects social emergency aid, as set out in the Basque Local Institutions Act. In relation to Lanbide's reform, I think history is known and I am not going to refer to it. This House, on 26 January 2017, approved the non-legislative proposal urging us to submit within six months a reform plan for that body. The work for this reform plan has been done within the body, collecting all the ongoing work resulting from the Lanbide Strategic Plan 2013-2016. The first report was contrasted in the Lanbide Board of Directors on November 20, 2017. Working parties, UGT and Confebask requested the Lanbide Board of Directors on 27 November 2017 to set up a working group, which has met on several occasions, generating a consensus document except for the multi-purpose nature of the technical staff of the local employment offices. In addition to the social partners and trade unions, we have gathered the opinion of the third sector and communicated the work done to the Civil Dialogue Bureau. Also, the formations that make up this House are necessary interlocutors in this process, and already in November 2017 we started a work with the groups to present them the prepared document, clarify doubts and collect contributions, in which their group has also participated. The compromise was the presentation of the Lanbide reform plan to Parliament for its discussion in a monograph on employment in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, and that is where we stand. The next Governing Council will take the form of information so that it can be dealt with in this House. And the reform and modernization plan has six key elements: improving institutional capacities; improving job activation functions with sustainable results; leadership functions to regulate and coordinate and ensure the quality of services; improving understanding of the needs of employers and businesses; efficiency and effectiveness of benefits; and incorporating the monitoring and evaluation of Lanbide programmes. The effort made to define this document and the involvement of all the actors has delayed the presentation of this reform somewhat, but the compliance with the agreements we have reached in this House has been carried out, Mrs Garrido. We have promoted the reform of guarantee income to ensure that social assistance reaches the people who need it most, improving its efficiency, promoting inclusion and avoiding chronification, and Lanbide is a fundamental tool to achieve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u76	Well, counselor, I don't really give credit. I think I am absolutely stupefied, such as, of course, certainly the spokespersons on social affairs. I believe that in my 13 years of parliamentary life I have not seen such a thing. Do you know the functioning of Parliament and the dynamics of Parliament? How come today, if an initiative is presented in the Register in this House, which has not passed through the Bureau, do you come here to explain it in the rostrum of this House? You, what respect do you have for this Parliament? Are you going to tell me that you respect Parliament when it presents to us, as a government, an initiative which you have presented this morning, registered by two groups in the register, in the Basque Parliament, and which has not yet passed through the Bureau, which, by the way, next week is Wednesday? But you... it's just that I find it absolutely pitiful and embarrassing. I have to tell you this, counselor. That is to say, you have been unable to fulfil the commitments made, the agreements that have been signed by the groups that support this Government in this House, and today we come to this rostrum, you do not tell us the date on which you are going to present a bill, which I imagine some of the work would be advanced, and you are coming to announce the initiative that the parliamentary groups have put forward. And how do you know her? Because you did it, didn't you? How do you know her? But if he hasn't gone through the Bureau, if the rest of the groups... Do the rest of the groups know her? I believe, Madam Counselor, that often cardboard... You were talking about a bill – today you've taken away this bill by saying it wasn't one of the most important ones – a key bill in this legislature. You know that the bill is accompanied by a series of documents that are preceptive, which in addition would have made very interesting and valuable considerations for the handling of the bill itself in this House. It must be made clear that, for the sake of that rigour and consensus, you skip all those preceptive reports that accompany a bill. I mean, you guys, I think it's already a jet, that is, a... I don't even know how to qualify it, counselor. I mean, you come to this rostrum today in breach of your commitments, your agreements, and you present us here and you detail the content of the bill put forward by the groups that support the Government. If the engagement was you! How can you tell me in this rostrum that you have complied with the legislative timetable? But how can a government meet a legislative timetable when it has to be the groups that support it that bring the initiative to Parliament because it is unable to bring the bill to this House? But how can you tell me that you have complied with the legislative timetable? But how can you tell me that you have complied with the legislative timetable? But how can you tell me that this government has complied with the agreement of 29 June, in which the Basque government was urged to present in the first quarter of 2018 the bill of amendment for the guarantee of income and for social inclusion? But how can you tell me that you have fulfilled your commitments? It has done everything but deliver on commitments. The only thing you have done here today in this rostrum is to derail the initiative of two parliamentary groups. It is also a pity that Mr Lehendakari wanted to give us an example this morning of what the party is, what the government is and what parliamentary groups are! Well, little has been left for this government to, at the first change, skip that scrupulous division that at least the lehendakari has explained to us this morning, because you, come on, skipped at the first change. Well, then, we will read on Wednesday that initiative that you and you must already have, that the groups, of course, do not yet have. We will study it and we will also take our own initiatives, but, of course, it seems to me, Madam Counsellor, that your action in this House today is absolutely regrettable, disappointing, and, of course, that this Government has no credibility today with what we have seen in this rostrum and with what we have had breakfast this morning. In relation to Lanbide, if you have not submitted any reform! It said to me, "We had a meeting the day before Christmas," and the last meeting was postponed, we know nothing more about this government. That consensus, therefore, seems to me that it will also be difficult to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u77	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u78	Of course, Mrs Garrido, I have the utmost respect for this House, and I have always said so. And, of course, I do not share the qualifications that towards the initiatives that the political groups that support this Government or that the Government itself has carried out have poured into this rostrum: regrettable, disappointing, incapable of fulfilling the commitments, which is shameful, which we have failed to fulfil... I, Mrs Garrido, believe that there are many ways of dealing with the initiatives that the Government or political groups believe, and I believe that a way of dealing with a law can be perfectly through the proposal of a law; moreover, in this case, taking into account the urgency that Basque society demands of us with the aim of improving that law in order to protect the citizens of this country in the most appropriate way. And that's what we've done, Mrs. Garrido. Whether you like it or not, the groups that support this government have led the process of law that will improve protection and will consolidate the model of social services with which this country has been endowed and that will therefore benefit the whole of Basque society. The proposed law has a number of milestones: it will mean greater protection for families, minors, refugees, persons with disabilities, also those affected by gender-based violence, it will mean greater moderation and progressiveness, simplicity in their management and control, and better and simpler communication between the Administration and users. We are aware that Lanbide is a service provider, but it is also a tractor of alliances and a facilitator of cooperative relations. We must make people work better and in stable and sustainable jobs, and for that we have been working, to consolidate a public service and a system of protection that will help make Euskadi a cohesive and supportive territory. Inclusion policies and income guarantees are a priority of the Euskadi and the European Union, and not only through measures to access minimum income, but also through other mechanisms, such as those aimed at generating an inclusive labour market. With Lanbide's Reform and Modernization Plan and the proposed income guarantee and social inclusion law that have been introduced in this House today, this country is taking new steps in its social cohesion, solidarity, economic progress and sustainable development. And examples of the way in which the law is dealt with through a proposal for a law we have had in this House for many years. One example, in the past legislature, was the Housing Act. In short, what we need and need is to address the aspects of poverty that the excluded live, so that access to employment and a decent life are real; giving social rights to people is the best way to prevent and alleviate poverty and social exclusion, and that is what this Government, with the proposed law that today the two parties that support it, together with the Lanbide reform, aims to achieve. I hope that we will be able to reach a broad consensus on this proposal, which will contribute to the disappearance of inequalities in our country, Mrs Garrido. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, as to the law student of the Podemos, who is a member of the House of Environments, Land Planets, and Housings, the signs of the privations which the Basque people suffer in the field of energy." Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u80	Thank you. First of all, "We believe you." Mr. Arriola, what steps has the Government taken to implement the non-proposition of a law guaranteeing basic supplies for a dignified life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u81	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, as you were told in the written answer to this question, the non-legislative proposal affects the competences of various departments; therefore, I will confine myself to replying to what is logically relevant to my department. I would like to give you concrete details of the measures we have taken. With regard to the establishment of indicators on the energy deficit suffered by Basque citizens, a diagnosis was developed last year to introduce among the indicators envisaged in the inventory of vulnerable neighbourhoods one on the conditions of energy deficiency and risk of energy poverty in the residential park. With regard to the generation of a specific plan and with annual budget allocation for the regeneration of housing in terms of energy efficiency, prioritizing economically degraded areas, in addition to continuing with the renewal plans, during 2017 neighbourhoods with high or very high vulnerability have been analyzed, and the objective is to promote, in those areas whose municipalities commit themselves to this, interventions of group and integral regeneration, which will be started gradually during the coming years according to the budget availability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u84	Thank you, señor Arriola. First I'd like to freshen up what was approved. The first was, in fact, the energy deficit indicators based on two directives of the European Union, a report evaluating the measures to care for people and groups suffering from energy poverty; the second was a regulation to deal with energy poverty, specific to the Basque Government, with the competences of the Government itself; the third was to finance the budget lines of social emergency aid; the fourth was a specific plan for the regeneration of housing based on energy efficiency; the fifth was to inform the vulnerable consumer; and the sixth was to urge the State to make a law against energy poverty. And I'm sorry, based on the government's reports on GNP compliance and the written questions we've been asking, the truth is that compliance is sincerely deficient. None of the reports mention that the Basque Government has urged the Government of the State to make a law against energy poverty, and this was the easy part of this non-legislative proposal that we passed in this House. Consumer information. Neither of the two reports that this government has sent to the House refers to a work that Kontsumobide does – deficient, it is not even on the front page of the website; we will ask Mr.Tortillo about that – but not even the government is able to say what it is doing. To finance the social emergency aid items. What the hell! But, anyway, it is being done in a poor way, despite the budget increase, and, if not, let's ask the municipalities, which are the ones that have to put much of the budget. And with regard to the rehabilitation plan, in fact, you have mentioned in your question the same thing that you answered me in writing to the question that we mentioned, but that is not a specific plan, which is what was approved by this Parliament, by the parties that also support the Government. Nor is there a comprehensive planning of what those energy efficiency rehabilitation plans are going to be to avoid situations of energy poverty, because we also need to take into account, for example, income criteria, criteria, for example, effectively, such as high- and very high-vulnerability neighbourhoods, but we need more concrete planning by the Government. And about the regulations of the Basque Government, of Basque, to deal with energy poverty, nothing; I don't know if it's from your department, I don't know whose department it is, but as I don't know I invite you to, if you know, I'll be delighted to ask the advisor of the branch. And I believe that the best – and this one is yours – we approved – and you recalled – to establish energy deficit indicators. The textual answer: "During 2017 a diagnosis has been developed on the possibilities of introducing an indicator concerning the conditions of energy efficiency. After carrying out this analysis, the analysis of this indicator will be developed during 2018." I, the truth is that I have not understood anything that means, that is, a diagnosis has been made, then that diagnosis becomes an analysis and now, in 2018, the analysis of that analysis is going to be carried out. I do not know what the government has been doing, I do not know if it takes so much time to establish an indicator that is already reflected in two directives of the European Union. I think it is time to move from wishing to fulfil the mandates of this Parliament. We have just said this from the opposition to Mrs Artolazabal; we do not fail to respect only the Basque Parliament if we do not comply with the proposals not of law that we all approve of, but that Basque citizenship also deserves a better response from this Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u85	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u86	Well, Mr. Martínez, I am very grateful to you for giving me a general reminder of what a non-law proposal entails, but I would appreciate it if you would speak to me as much as possible of my own, to the extent that you ask me in this rostrum regarding my responsibility as a Councillor for the Environment, Land Management and Housing. As the written response advanced, this year we will develop a methodology to define objectives, actions, costs and benefits of an action plan on the residential built park that can be integrated into an urban regeneration strategy at the level of the whole of Euskadi. And this methodology includes three phases: the architectural characterization of the park built in order to have a database of the buildings ordered according to their significant characteristics to energy rehabilitation; the energy characterization of this residential park that allows us to address later interventions in this matter (This study will already offer more precise results of the energy demand of the buildings and the income necessary to enable them and avoid the situation of energy poverty, and also what these variables would be after the intervention in the energy improvement and its costs); and, on the other hand, the economic characterization of the plan by evaluating up to twelve scenarios of intervention on the residential park, which includes variables such as interest rates, depreciation periods and investments or amounts of aid on intervention prices, so that combining all these variables with factors such as the duration of the plan, the estimated evolution of energy prices, inflation, etc., would give us an approximate number of buildings rehabilitated in a given period, required investment, economic, energy and emissions savings achieved, foreseeable demand for materials and jobs generated. And, in addition, you know that we are acting specifically in a number of neighborhoods with a high or very high vulnerability based on an inventory that has been updated and that what you tell us is that these neighborhoods are located primarily in the Left Margin of the Bilbao River, denser municipalities of Alto and Bajo Deba, Pasaia Bay, border area of Irun and some areas of Duranguesado and the environment of Llodio. Thus, specifically in collaboration with the municipalities, we want to carry out comprehensive actions for the regeneration of neighbourhoods in which, of course, energy efficiency also intervenes, in addition to other issues that allow the rehabilitation of areas that are clearly in need of action by the public administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Otero Galirdo, which had been made by the House of Environments, Land Planets, and Houses, concerning the recovery of the land which occupied the nuclear Plants of the Forest." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u88	Yes, good afternoon, thank you. "I believe you, too, we believe you." Mr. Arriola, we all know that in the Kala of the Woods, they wanted to build a nuclear Plant without the consent of the people, and we all know that this Plant never set foot in motion. But it is also known that in the last 46 years there have been 280 acres in the hands of Iberdron, where the theft made by the people has reached the present day. The settlement ends this year and there's a lot of movement going on. The head of the fields of Tapia announced a fish market project. The Medius, on the other hand, has received that the Spanish Government has an agreement, which is at present mysterious, and by means of which the Iberdronla seeks to free himself from his zeal for the recovery of the forest; Let's go! Many people have talked about the subject, but it is very strange to us that the chief physician of the planeting earth has said nothing of this piece before. The responsibility, you know, so far as you're the head of the planetal department, and you know it, is the simple question: What do you think of getting back the Canals of the Forest? What steps did you take? What steps will you take?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, before I come in to answer you, I would like to point out a statement that you make in the justification of your question: you point out that it was the work of the people of Lemoiz that made sure that the nuclear power station that bears your name was not launched. This is not true, and you know it. The paralysis of the power plant was also not achieved, even if it was important, by the struggle of the antinuclear movement or by the mobilization of a part of Basque society: it was the result of the many bombs and the five murders that ETA put on top of the works. That is, unfortunately, the truth, and it is not good to hide it or distort reality by telling chivalry novels. Well, you ask me what I think about the need to recover the Basordas cove, where the structure of the nuclear power plant is built, and on this same issue you already asked the Economic Development Advisor at the time and your group has put forward a non-legislative proposal in this House, as well as other initiatives at the Bizkaia General Councils. Look, Mr Otero, in this matter, as a counselor it is not my function to have an opinion, my obligation is to apply in the matters of competence of my department the legal regulations that apply at every moment, and the truth is that today no project related to the space where the central office of Lemoiz is located has been presented to the Department of Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing; and therefore, we have not had to make any decision or take any action to date.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u92	I can see that you didn't do anything; you didn't have to, I don't know. I make a small reference to what you say is the truth. Lemoiz stopped for a lot of things. Of course, what you say is also in the middle, but you have forgotten to say that the nuclear moratorium decreed in 84 has much to do with the bankruptcy or almost bankruptcy of the big electrics and how the Spanish Government went out to rescue and from there the payment of the nuclear moratorium. So don't tell me the truth was attacks when the truth is multiple and you surely forget the most important motive. You don't have anything to do with it so far? I don't know if this old woman comes to the Eyrie, but she used to say in my house, "Go to sleep and eat thin," that is, some people are working while you don't do your job. I think the Plan of the Land Area to protect and organize the coast is very clear what to do: He says an intervention about the forest and there's a description. There are two alternatives in this Kala. The Basque Autonomy Corporation's Cost Group to mean and organize the Special Plant Land picks up two alternatives for the Candle of the Forest: one, to throw down what is constructed, and restore the original state of the Calc; and two, to set up activities compatible with the Litorical, being the priority of those who will help to recover the area. And in both cases we must write a special plan of organisation. What are you doing? Organ executer, Lemoi Town, Iberdronla, Bizkau Aldundia, and Eusko. That's what you have to do and it's very clear. And what you have to do there is in your mind. But you're not coming to this, Arncha Tapia is back showing the dependence of land planning on the development of the economy. You have to do your job, and by this time this organ is to be running and the plan should be on the table, and then come to plan different projects for it. Do your job!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u93	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u94	Mr Otero, you and I know the legal regulations that affect these lands of Basordas cove; basically, the Coast Law as regards the maritime or land public domain, the Territorial Sectoral Plan for the Protection and Management of the Coastal of the Basque Country and the subsidiary rules of the municipality of Lemoiz. And, as you said, there are two alternatives: the dismantling and recovery of the original state of the cove or the implementation of activities compatible with the protection of the coast, prioritizing those that contribute to the recovery of the site. And in both cases, in fact, a special management plan is required, which must be approved by the Municipality of Lemoiz. What I can tell you is that if we are presented with a specific project, we will logically study it with all the attention that this space deserves, with all the precise and necessary information regarding what is envisaged in terms of land and facilities. And all this, if any, and of course on the basis of the legislation that is required in the area of territorial planning and the environment. I know that you are very fond of telling others that you put the cart ahead of the oxen; therefore, I think you will allow me and it will be very good for me to listen to you and follow a logical order: first, proposals and project, if any; then, if necessary, reports on the planning of the territory and the environment. And, logically, no one is going to usurp the competencies of this department in what their competencies are. Logically, no; we have them and we will exercise them. There must be proposals for them, there must be projects, and as a result of the proposals and projects the reports will come.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u95	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interrament, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the contractions which Hosa are fostering." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u96	Thank you, ma'am. "I believe you too." We have another reason to leave Spain to build eupscal State and build our own judicial system. From today's subject, Mr. Darpón, you'd be able to take a page from Hosa in practice, everyday life, all the contractory activities that are used in practical, everyday, and not theoretical, and when these contractions are used, what are they used for? And would you be able, one day, to take a morning or an afternoon, to build a team with the Director of Osalegs, the Director of Human Resources and the directors of integrated sanitarian institutions, to make a list in the RPTan, all the other jobs you've mentioned, all the jobs you haven't got, all the jobs you don't get, all the jobs that aren't connected to the code? Those are our jobs in the diary and the temporary jobs that are hidden. Why do I say this? Now, because, when it comes to the opposition of the Osacans, we have two faces, and thus the impostor is concealed from us: We have a real face, a diary, and we have an official face. Real, the real face is what is given in everyday life: No code, no number... These are jobs that aren't connected to the code, but are modernly composed of temporary jobs, hiding jobs, jobs that don't appear at the RPT, which are based on frauds for years. What are these contracts? Now these are the acts of Contract: the model of contract, the model of "successary" contract, the "kangural" contract, etc., and so on. And the plan, officer, which is to-day to answer your fellow-citizens: A plantilla used to appear in the real situation and the polished face of the Osar, a code with jobs that have a number. So, when we ask you for your monthly information, you can watch it on your answers, when we realize that the number of nominations and the number of jobs are not the same; there are more nominations than jobs, and that is not included in partial jobs, limited to full employments. And besides, there's a terrible change from the death. For instance, during the whole period of September, 2017, they were the victims of nominary, 34.412 persons, November 38.625 nominary and 32.66 people. Mr. Darpón, please tell me if you're interested in a schedule of structure. How much is it? 26,000? Then answer me, please, to see what's the difference. But why is this all going on? Why is it happening? Well, this is the interrogations, Mr. Darpón, without noticing anyone in the world who's going to be mad at jobs, Omniangana, who's not picked up at the RPTan, because it's very easy to be annoyed by these jobs, and so the public system is gradually getting weaker, deep in privatization and transforming the structure of the Osar. One more question: the real contracts, which are offered not to fill the criteria of language, are not connected to a code, but are linked with a number, they do not need to fill the language criteria. And do you know what plan of eucacharation around or around the plan? Around the RPT. You plan around the planetuture. Then the percentage of the language experiments on the planet, and the daily plan, are of no concern: What you get in the RPT is 30% of the language tests on the structure of the planet. 14% of the other template And you hide all this in your plans, and that's what's happening. Even in this way, jobs are not allowed to go out to the contests either by laboring or by state or by services or by curriculum, but they don't exist, they don't exist... , and there they are. And the provisionalness is dreadful, so there are so many situations hidden. The opposition is made in subjective criteria by this model of association. It is not fulfilled that the decision of May 9th, 2011, which regulates the temporary contracts and management of medical services. It is also avoided by these contracts, and I would like to remember that there is a sentence from Europe, if I am not mistaken, that we have not the final solution, but there is also a problem in the Ossar. So the temporary rate that's given is much higher in reality, right? And public work offers don't even come in to fulfill the jobs of those who sit in the court. They don't get there. He doesn't want to face the provisional, or he doesn't want to face it, so Mr. Darpón will have to explain it to us. There's a huge debutation in the Osaean contraction, and I really don't know what the real situation is. In the former legislation, this chief department was engaged to destroy the model of contract for the accumulation, and it also expressed it at the beginning of legislation. He thus expressed, if I am not mistaken, in answer to one of our questions, but afterwards he introduced a supple and stable contract. This, too, is not connected to a code, founded on provisionalness and fraud, and, moreover, language criteria have nothing to do with it. Por cyto What about the contract models of "conditioning" and "to fulfill the needs of services"? Why are they based on fraud? In the same service, the same person works for years, but in order not to reveal that position, not to become stable, what does he do? Well, it stops. For example, from January to 27th, there's a contract, then for three days, a baja, a different job, or that person is hired to do the same job in three days in the same job. And so we keep this competition based on fraud, not to reveal jobs, not to stabilize them, and, in the end, to get to on the map slowly. Contracts by Curriculum. These, above all, are at week-ends. The principal contractation is from Monday to Friday, but these jobs are offered on week-ends to give a contract to what you want, and that's what happens. These contracts may perhaps be useful in a loose week, or in a single day, to prevent an exception; but unfortunately these contracts have been stabled, and have not been exceptions, and have become naturalised. So, Mr. Darpón, the question is, What's this department of health going to do to change this bad praxis and promote high-quality employment models and quality contracts? What contract will this chief of staff encourage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u98	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mrs. Ubera. Good morning, everyone. I also believe the woman raped in sanfermines and from here I add to the concentrations that will be occurring at these hours. 'Eunk' has shown a will and a firm engagement beyond the mere will and charming speeches you mention. He has shown the commitment to public employment, with exact measurements, Mrs. Ubera. Look, Mrs Ubera, apart from your obsessions, neither the Government nor the Department of Health nor Osakidetza has any model of fraud in the company that most jobs create in Euskadi. If you are aware of any post that has been amortized, I will be happy to receive you with the person who says that we have amortized your structural staffing position, at any time you want, at your full disposal. The Lehendakari Urkullu Government has and demonstrates a clear commitment to stable and high-quality public employment, despite the fact that some political groups who want to leave it are annoyed. In line with this, the Department of Health has since the beginning of the legislature, as we announced in the presentation of the department's general guidelines, made this commitment with regard to Osakidetza. This premise has led to the consideration of temporary recruitment, its causes, its status and the needs of the various service organizations, in order to improve the quality of recruitment. I have never committed myself to saying that the contract of accumulation of tasks can disappear, because it is not possible; I have committed myself to making general use of it only for the coverage of the short-term activities that take place in the organizations. And of course, over a month, the same person can have two contracts, because there can be a one-week break from a structural staff member and, therefore, is hired that week, and after the rest of the month there can be another break and you can re-hire the same person! I think it's easy to understand. I must say, Mrs Ubera, that eventuality has not become a chronic problem and that I do not share the figures you give because they are not real. Look, it's been asking me for the entire past legislature and what's going on with Osakidetza's recruitment figures for various formulas month by month and I'm making it easy for you, but I'm starting to have doubts as to whether you understand them. From a public body the size of Osakidetza, with the complexity it has and the administrative decentralization it is necessary and enjoys, to give a quality service... Of course, temporary recruitment and many other aspects can always be improved. We're not complacent. In fact, quality in employment is one of the goals of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. We know very well that it contributes on the one hand to the Government's employment objective and also to greater employee satisfaction and the quality of care provision. That's why we're engaged. That's why, Mrs. Ubera, we've been working to improve the quality of employment, we've been trying to make an agreement with the unions, and there have been so many settlements and progresses in this legislation. Here, as an example, is the offer to the public employment of 2016-7, a new kind of compact, stable, and flexible contract, a long term of intermediate denominations, and so forth. From Osakidetza, concrete measures have been promoted that, far from promoting precarious contracts, contribute to ensuring quality public employment. Public offers of employment are an essential instrument. You should know that Osakidetza is characterized by being one of the public administrations, both in Euskadi and in the rest of the state, which has made more regular and long-term public offers of employment. I already know that if it were for you – at least speaking – the replacement rates set by the state government would be missed, but, look, we defend the criterion of legal certainty, especially when it comes to such a large number of places as those offered by Osakidetza in the last OPEs and with the volume of people who oppose them. Since the responsibility of the Government, we cannot afford to demagogue on such serious issues as the job security of the thousands of people who come to each of the calls. This is a luxury reserved for those who do not have this responsibility. In any case, the OPEs carried out and those which are in operation have undoubtedly helped to consolidate stable and quality employment in Osakidetza. It should also be noted that such employment has a marked impact on the female population. In summary I will give you the data of public offers of employment of successive governments that have managed the department, before Health, now Health. In 1995 a public offer of employment with 1,000 places; in 1997 with 903; in 2002 with 1,859; in 2006 with 4,334; in 2008, 2,539; in 2011, 2,422; in 2014-2015, 1,014 places; in the current one 3,335, corresponding to 86 categories. What do you want me to say? The truth, Mrs. Ubera, is that there are many people who want to enter Osakidetza. And few, very few who want to get out of that precariousness you're talking about. For something it will be. The working conditions should not be as bad and precarious as you constantly repeat, but it seems that no one believes you. In this way, the 2016-2017 OPE is there, the reviews are going to take place in the coming weeks, fulfilling the government's commitments. A OPE that represents an achievement not only of Osakidetza or the Department of Health, but also of the unions, which have decided to bet on stable employment by reaching agreements, trade union organizations that have seen the value of the offer made and that have been able to reach agreements. And it is also a reflection of those other trade union organizations that have not signed and that speak for themselves of their commitment to employment. An agreement reached at the sectoral table held on June 23, 2017, which includes a commitment to a new public offer of employment with the vacancies of 2018 and 2019, of those retirements that you were talking about before. An agreement which builds on the desire to improve the quality of employment and reflects Osakidetza's commitment that 95% of the structural staff should be fixed. And when you ask me what the structural template is. For, Mrs Ubera, the structural staff by law approves it once a year by the Basque Government, you have it permanently at your disposal. An agreement that also includes the carrying out of a pilot study on temporality, in which we are, for the purpose of analysing the feasibility of converting certain temporary posts into fixed staffing, which, when it happens, which will be this legislature, you will also criticise. Another step has been to promote the allocation of interim appointments rather than eventual appointments where circumstances permit. Furthermore, as I have already mentioned, the possible appointment of a stable and flexible nature has been launched, as you have said, whose characteristics seem to be of concern to you. Perhaps you should know that the characteristics of this contract were negotiated with the trade unions and agreed with one of the trade unions represented at the sectoral table. So, Mrs. Ubera, there have been so many measures in favour of the public employment in Osax. On the other hand, I want you to know that in this course we will continue to work in order to ensure the rights of the language of all people and the facility of making our workers useful language. For this purpose we have a proper instrument: In order to normalize the use of the Basque Use in the Part II. The plan. To conclude, and to answer your question, I think it has been evident what kind of contract the Medical Department inspires: stable and quality, like the one they're gonna get from 335 people at the OPEan Square now in power. And don't let it fall into a broken sack... I'm waiting for you with the person who tells me we've amortized the square. I'll wait for her. Find it and, if not, correct it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u99	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u100	You cheat, Mr. Darpón, you cheat. You're constantly talking about the structure of the planet in Boltina, and what we want to do is to accept that face of the b in one day's ivory, and to exist in those ghostly jobs that don't officially exist in the diary, to become officers and to publish it on the ivory. And to do this, upon the basis of which the public offering is based, is to make the plan of the eucature, of language, etc., which is a fraud. How can those people complain if their jobs don't have any alibis? Because you don't put them on purpose, but the job is. They're working, they have functions. And why did Europe pull you out of the ears? Then there's no scam here. What are we talking about? The crematorium is chronized here, it's permanently established. And you know that, it's not my personal experience. I still think I'm still here to understand the information you're sending me. And here, some unions have even made reports, not all. And it's a shame that some unions reject the rights of the people and use negotiations so they don't guarantee the rights of the people. It's a shame because all the unions should fulfill it just like the organizations have to do, and they're all gonna do it. Some people have done this in the ultimate public offer, and this other kind of contract, which is stable and flexible, is accepted. So we want that b face to surface and become A face. And we want all this opposition to end. If I have data, we'll sit down whenever you like, and I'll show you all the data with names and jobs and functions, and I'll show you all the details. But you have to do that job, and we want to ask you. What you have to do is shake, investigate, see how many jobs there are, in what circumstances, on what conditions, with what criteria they are given, and so on. Look, check it out, sort the house out. You must set up the house of Osacides; order and criterions; for you, public institutions, must be models of example in the model of precedent, of criteria, which must be negligible, objective, and of all the criteria of a person who does not belong to, with all the associations of contract which I have now alluded to, based on the fraud, upon all the provisionalness of which you are pushing. And this is an objective data, which everyone knows, and which happens with the complicity of certain unions. Yes, sir, and so it is. And it seems to us that we're at the right time for an investigation, for a face and a face, with shells, to compare them, because at this moment we have to give a change of generation in the Osata, a change of generation must be given. Let's get things sorted out, to determine criteria, to determine the jobs we have to have. And the only plan... for that, too, which is received at the RPT, functional, RPT, and no one knows what it is, but it is not in numbers; Well, these jobs are ridiculous, they're ridiculous to see in the everyday, with the mass of jobs that actually belong to Osa, all the people who work, not just the ones they get at the RPT. So, klaro, we'll talk about the health service later. We are going to discuss that people should be placed in the centre, but how do we offer a quality health service, if it isn't the kind of job that is fostered? How do we say we have people in the centre when we don't count? And what will the workers say? Workers want to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u102	Ubera andrera. As I said before, there are several Osarides and Medical Departments in order to promote the quality and stability of public employment. The public offer of 2016-2010 is a precise example of that. More than $960,000 people are registered in this public offer. It's almost the biggest thing that's ever been done for the number of squares we've offered, with 335 Squares, almost all the profession category and all the medical specialities. You've forgotten that I had amortized squares. Look, a contract that has a start and an end is not a depreciation, it's a contract termination. It seemed to me to understand that you looked ridiculously 3,335 places in a public job offer. It does not look like the 96,000 people who have presented themselves, 20% who are not residents of this Community. You criticise the trade unions for negotiating. Well, you're dividing the unions between good and bad, that is, those who support you and others. Not for me, all those who have representation at the sectoral table are welcome, we are open to agreements with them, and we are reaching agreements; not with all, but with those who really care about workers' problems. Let us see, the quality and stability of employment in Osakidetza have undoubtedly been strengthened this legislature through the public offer of employment and through the other measures that we have taken. As I said earlier, we have launched the eventual appointment of a stable and flexible nature, a positive, necessary and negotiated measure with the trade unions, which had the opportunity to make as many considerations as they considered appropriate. The duration of the contract is fixed for one year, with the possibility of extension and, where appropriate, consolidation for structural staffing purposes. Frankly, I do not understand what glue you see that today more than a hundred family doctors have linked to Osakidetza through this stable and flexible appointment, under which they have improved the stability and quality of their jobs. It is also the case that, look, a third of these contracts accredits euskera profile. Osakidetza progressively increases the language training in Basque of professionals, given its special characteristics in terms of permanence and destination in the preferred units, according to the criteria of the current Euskera Plan of Osakidetza, which, by the way, is also the work of the Government. This Second Euskera Plan in Osakidetza establishes the need to take measures to ensure the care in the language of preference of the users. As I have already mentioned, over the past year 2017 Osakidetza has prioritized recruitment through interim appointments, so that only last year 2,385 interim appointments have been awarded. Data: 679 doctors and doctors, 562 nurses and nurses, 468 technicians specialists and health assistants, 309 interinities in administration, management and general services and 367 colerators and operators. Realities, Mrs. Ubera. Each of them has a stable contract of quality in the public administration, with frankly good conditions, Mrs Ubera. At present, 92% of the total structural staff has stable employment, far away from the precariousness and instability that you intend to preach without objective data or arguments. Where do you see the chronic problem of Osakidetza? Where do you see job insecurity? Which squares have been amortized? Does this sound like an excuse to you? It's reality, data. What's the chronic problem of membership? Where's the integrity? What are the jobs that have been annoyed? When you ruled the administration of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council or some of the municipalities, what employment have you generated, compared to what is generating Osakidetza? A little serious!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörrr of the Popula team made to the head of the health department, the eucalyptus on the valuation of the Osalist." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, let's talk about OPE again in Osakidetza. We see that this issue is of interest to the parliamentary groups; in this case, Mr Councilman, for something absolutely predictable that has been raised by the People's Party and which you know repeatedly. As you say, 3,335 places have been convened in the OPE, practically in all professional categories and medical specialties. 96,000 people, 18,000 from outside (approximately 20%) have been presented, and apart from the places that have a certain linguistic profile, the Basque is valued as merit, and is valued quite as merit, up to 10% in relation to the rest of the merits, and this makes the Basque become a determining factor in accessing a place in Osakidetza. I don't know what chances that 20% of people who have signed up from outside will be able to get a job in this public call. I ask you for the view that you once again deserve the excessive assessment given to the Basque woman in this public offer of employment. He will tell me that he is delighted, he will tell me that he is delighted to celebrate again the euskaldunization in the public administration, in this case in Osakidetza, and he will tell me that we are moving forward, but, of course, how are we not going to move forward if those who enter Osakidetza know Basque because precisely they enter because they know Basque? I imagine you will tell me this – obviously, then I will answer you – but you know that in the end Basque is decisive and discriminatory for those people who cannot believe the demand of Basque at the corresponding level and much more for those who do not know Basque.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u105	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u106	President andrea, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuok, Garrido andrea. I read the question you asked me. This question, apparently, shows one thing: You haven't read specific principles that have been put on for jobs that provide memberships. If you'd read it, you'd have seen that there was no distraction around the cradle. I suppose you have asked me the question because you have no choice but to do it, because the assessment we give to the Basque woman is exactly the same as that of the OPE which the Government of the lehendakari López very rightly drew in Osakidetza and which you supported. So, if you didn't feel bad about the assessment given to the language, which I share, then I understand that you shouldn't ask me this today, but I answer you. Euskera is not a discriminatory element; certainly not in Osakidetza. I will briefly explain to you the mechanics of the public offers of employment in Osakidetza, to make it clear that in no way can euskera be considered a discriminatory element. Any person seeking access to a job in Osakidetza must meet the requirements for the job. After enrolling and taking part in the opposition phase, in the opposition phase, only if it is approved will it go to the competitive phase, where it is valued, with the merits, the euskera. Then, first, the knowledge is demonstrated and the opposition phase is approved and then we will arrive at the competitive phase. Therefore, all people pass under identical conditions. For those approved it is time to accredit the merits on the basis of what is laid down in the specific bases, and thus, up to a maximum of 60 points, professional experience in the merit phase is valued; up to a maximum of 20 points training, teaching and research; and up to a maximum of 18 points euskera for those who accredit the PL2 and 9 points for those who accredit the PL1. Where's the scales? Where's the delusion discrimination? I don't see it, because it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u107	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u108	Well, yes, Mr. Counselor, gai beri bera aurkezten dugu. I will give you a nuance, if you will allow me: but we were not in the Patxi López government and we, being Patxi López in the government, Mr Bengoa as advisor, criticized this public offer of employment. And if not, go to the hemerotheque and you can also review the initiatives we are presenting in this House. We criticize that OPE because it is true that in that OPE, instead of going to a list in the opposition phase of questions, they were open agendas and questions to develop, and the euskera did become less determinant than if they were test-type answers. And that, yes, we applaud it, but, of course, we do not applaud the demand or excessive demand that was being given to the Basque woman, that she be given to the Basque woman, in fact, and that this Government, Mr Urkullu's governments in the successive OPEs that are being convened, obviously, as a nationalist government and that wants to impose the Basque woman and that has the linguistic policy of imposition that it has, apart from the sociolinguistic reality and the reality itself of each place, so it continues along that path. Look, we presented an initiative, the same one that we approved with the Socialist Party when it released the video criticizing – which you will remember – all the nationalist politics of the Basques, in which we remained alone – and that was the same initiative that the Socialist Party supported last parliamentary term. But, look, if we go to the merit phase, professional experience, 60 points; doctor cum laude, You come here by taking breasts out of the 19,000 or 18,000 people who present themselves from the outside. What real opportunities do these people have to have a place in Osakidetza if they don't know Basque? You know that, in addition, the euskera serves to then choose destinations in which precisely no euskera is required. Well, counselor, we're still the same, and the People's Party will continue to put this reality on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u109	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u110	Garrido andrea, you're talking about... I think you used the term "imposition." Look, in Euskadi we have two official languages, the legislation recognizes linguistic rights for all people and this government has a clear commitment to progress in the normalization of the use of Basque and to guarantee to all people health care in the language of their preference. He has repeated in the first intervention round and in the second intervention round that people coming from outside have no chance. Look, in the 86 categories and the three thousand three hundred and small places being a doctor will be worth for the medical and nursing category, where there is not most places. And, of course, of course, it's worth being a doctor! I am convinced that people who come from outside – whom we will welcome, who get a place in Osakidetza – do not think they come to waste time, and, of course, I have no doubt that they do not pay the fees and make the trip to do sports. See, in the area of the accreditation of language profiles, strictly applies the provisions of Decree 67/2003 on the Standardization of the Use of Euskera in Osakidetza, a decree which in turn strictly complies with the provisions of Law 10/82 on the Standardization of the Use of Euskera and Law 6/89 on Basque Public Service, laws adopted by this Parliament. We strictly comply, Mrs. Garrido. And I insist, I assume that you and I have not come here today to discuss whether the laws emanating from this Parliament should be complied with or not, or whether they are discriminatory or not. I have no doubt. Mrs Garrido, the nerve doesn't distract. It's what makes a lot of fun that you can't have the language you want in the NCO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u111	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpologium, the parliamentary members of the Basque Team of Carmelo Barrius Barroja, made for Cultura and the chief of the political departments of Language, about the Etnographic Museum of Archiènesa." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u112	Egun on. Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors. Recently (on Friday, April 20), a delegation from the Parliament's Committee on Culture visited this unique and exemplary museum in the Ayala Valley. Mrs Betolaza, Mrs Molina, Mr Estarrona, Mrs Agirre and a servant were once again able to check the value of that jewel of our culture, of our traditions, of that social culture very close and connected to the citizen, and enjoy a few hours of Arceniega and the surroundings of the Ayala Valley. It was not the first time that the Basque Parliament's Committee on Culture was related to the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega; on 20 February 2012 also a delegation of the Committee on Culture, with Mr Benjamín Atutxa (of the Basque Socialist Party) at the head and with Mrs Berriozabal, Mr Basabe, the lawyer Mancisidor and a servant also were with them, in the foreground of what was then the people who run and manage the Museum, the Artea association, a appearance that took place a few days later, almost ten days later, in this Parliament on 29 February 2012. And recently, last week, we were able to check the cultural, social, center and association work that manages it, and we were also able to check one thing clearly, which is perhaps what it brings us here at the moment, to check the economic difficulties and the lack of institutional support that this cultural, artistic infrastructure suffers. And that is why it is necessary for the Basque Government – we understand this because among the cultural, political or public structures it is the most powerful of the administrations that can have something to say in the safeguarding and continuation of that museum, and, moreover, in compliance with the Basque Museums Act of 2006 – to carry out this function of institutional coordination that we are seeing and have been able to verify that other institutions seem not to be able to carry out, and neither does the association itself. That is the reason for this inquiry. The Museum of Artziniega, of course, qualified it before it was exemplary and singular, but it has a very authentic human dimension, a very interesting human dimension, and of course to its lordships who have not visited the museum I strongly advise it, because they are going to be surprised, precisely, by that human and authentic dimension that has this ethnographic museum. It is also a unique museum because it interacts with the citizens and people of the Ayala Valley and those who visit it, and with students of different ages, and I think that is the fundamental element. It is also a cultural center, of those centers that we call art or cultural centers that interact with citizens. This is a very palpable and graphic example of what it is to interact with citizens and with the groups involved, such as students, with a whole range of elements that are linked to agricultural or urban activity, forges, bread making, traditional food, apart from many other issues that are easy to see on the spot. This museum created in 1984 was expanded in 2004 (1,700 square meters, 17 rooms, an important exhibition and museum area). In other words, it is a museum where the way of life of the inhabitants of the region (the Ayala Valley), of Artziniega, of that urban core, of the businesses, of the baserri And, moreover, all this has been the result of that popular collaboration, that is, we are, Mr. Counsellor, facing a center of popular culture and popular art and life of the people of the Ayala Valley, of Álava and of the Basque Country, because they are very similar to those we all shared and all of us and our ancestors. In other words, it is a centre of popular art where competitions, such as painting, temporary exhibitions, the outdoor auditorium, are stimulated, where certain manifestations that have to do with nature and the times of the year are also held, that is, it is in that sense a museum and a centre of popular art, living and authentic. And it also has a value, which does not focus on what is the usual and normal effort that all these centers of culture and art are usually in the big cores, in the cities, because usually there are more people and more people participate in it, but this is an example that the efforts not only have to focus on the cities; that cultural effort also has to be directed to our peoples, to our regions, in this case to our gangs, and that is the situation. That is to say, we also know that there was a parliamentary question, some of the questions that were raised were already answered at the time, which had to do with agreements to be signed or with economic situations, with contributions and subsidies from the Basque Government; well, there is the parliamentary question and the answer. But, in any case, it has already been a while, about a year, we are able, after this visit, also to work to see what can be done in relation to that museum, which is going through some small difficulties – I say again – but which has a very important value and cultural burden. In this sense, we ask you about the purposes of your department in relation to the maintenance and sustainability of the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega. We do understand that it will be a response that we will properly appreciate and then try to seek a parliamentary agreement through a motion that we hope will lead to a future that is clear from this cultural infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u114	Mr. President, Congressman, chief officers, Mr. Barrio, good morning. First of all – and I really say this to you – I think it is interesting that you bring this issue to this House, because apart from what we are talking about and discussing today, and apart from the motion that you will certainly raise as a result of this inquiry, I think that we are facing a good opportunity to review, in the field of culture, the model of governance that we have given ourselves in our Community, and also to review the responsibility that each institution has, or should have, in the public policies that we promote from each one of them, because in the background I believe that this is the subject underlying the inquiry that you put to me about the Museum of Artiniega. I begin my response, therefore, by referring to the governance model. It is a complex and unique model that we have given ourselves in the Basque Autonomous Community, and precisely in the subject that brings us here today, which is the competence relating to the management of culture – and in it the museum policy fits – this competence is a shared responsibility between our three institutional levels (the Basque Government, the outlaws and the local governments), and intervenes in it and intersects and combines two models of ownership (one, management, and the other, private or social). The fact that Basque competition in the field of culture is a shared competence, in any case, in which there is competition between different institutions, should not justify the existence of duplication. It is a model in which each institution must take responsibility and assume the consequences or demands of its sphere, and public policies must be complementary and not coincidental. In this regard, and with reference to public policies in the field of museums, it is good to recall that the Basque Autonomous Community has recognized in the Statute exclusive competence in the field of museums, but, despite this, the Government does not have any museum, nor has it founded or created any museum and so far has not been directly involved in the management of any museum of private or social ownership. They are, therefore, the outlaws and the municipalities the owners of the public-owned facilities and collections of our Community, and the parliaments and municipalities assume responsibility for providing coverage and support for the maintenance of the public or private museum facilities that exist in their respective fields. In any case, this Autonomous Community has the ambition to develop and promote a competitive, competent and advanced museum system, and this imposes on many of these museum facilities and collections, whether public or private, a number of requirements that they themselves would not be able to secure. And in this complex system of governance, the Basque Government has the responsibility to promote programmes that enable museum owners, whether public or private, to develop projects aimed at strengthening the importance and value of the collections and at promoting educational or public programmes that facilitate the participation of citizens in their enjoyment and knowledge. This is the role that the Basque Government has assumed and awarded, and its policies are being developed in this area. This model of governance has very few exceptions, and those that are exceptions are motivated by their unique characteristics. This is the case with the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum, the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao, the Artium Museum of Vitoria, the Balenciaga Museum of Getaria and the Fundación del Valle Salado de Añana. The Government, through the Department of Culture, intervenes differently in each of them, although in all cases it participates in the foundations that are responsible for their management and contributes to their financing. To these must be added the Museum San Telmo, the International Topic Centre of Toulouse, the Museum of Mining of the Basque Country and the Fundación Catedral Santa María. The Government does not participate in the direct management of these entities, but contributes to their operation with special funding. As you can see, there are very few exceptions, they are very specific cases and I do not think anyone will question their relevance because of their ability to drag on other activities of all kinds and because of the large number of visitors they receive. This scheme has two exceptions in the 2018 budget, and both exceptions respond to two amendments submitted by its parliamentary group, and are the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega and the Maritime Museum of Bilbao's Ría. They are the only two exceptions that break the rule, and in my opinion they do nothing to help give coherence to the national system of museums that we have organized, but, finally, as an opposition group that accepted budget negotiation, you are in your right and you have managed to get them incorporated into our budget. The rest of the Basque museums, up to a total of 45, receive from the municipalities and municipalities or from the different private and social entities that support them the resources they need to ensure their current expenses and their functioning. In any case, the Government, over and above the ownership and character of these museums, has aid programmes aimed at them, but which have very specific objectives, and are set out in the Museums Act, such as: managing collections and improving access to knowledge of them, renewing permanent exhibition, making temporary exhibitions, promoting the educational, recreational and cultural role in their field of action, generating knowledge related to their theme and field of action and improving management and promoting innovation in them. The call for 2018 will be approved by the Governing Council next Tuesday and will grow by 17% compared to 2017, from 600,000 to 700,000 euros, and each of the museums will be able to apply for grants for two projects with a maximum funding of 45,000 euros for each of them. At the 2017 call, 38 projects organized or directed by 23 museums were presented. Returning to the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega, in the years between 2003 and 2013 he presented himself to the call for public aid of the Government in eight of the 11 calls made. In the period from 2014 to 2018, as a result of the different budgetary negotiations, he was unable to access these calls and received nominative grants in the budget amounting to EUR 30,000 per year. I also visited the Artziniega Museum and held several meetings with the representatives of the Artea Association and also with the mayor of the municipality whose town hall is the owner of the facility in which the museum is housed. I agree with you that it is a very interesting museum. It is interesting because, first of all, it responds to the disinterested work of a group of citizens and to the disinterested contributions of many of the inhabitants of the municipality and the Aiara area. It is also important and highlighted by the objects it contains, and it seems to me also very original how to present them, placing them in specific contexts that make their knowledge and interpretation more plausible, and, in many cases, they are tools that still work today and put them into operation every fine time, so that citizens who come closer have a knowledge of how life was developing in that area. Now, given the interest in the Artziniega Museum, in no case would I doubt the interest of other institutions. I would not question the interest of the Ethnographic Museum of Zalduondo, I would not question the interest of the Ethnographic Museum of Larraul, I would not question the interest of the Museum of Salt of Leintz-Gatzaga, nor of the Photo Museum of Zarautz, the Museum of the Ría of Bilbao, Albaola, or the Zumalakarregi Museum of Ormaiztegi, none of them – and I have chosen them with intent – but one thing is my opinion and another is the interest of each of them and the governance model that must govern the organization of our system. The Artziniega Museum is located in a municipally owned building, and the owner of the collection and its philosophy is a social or private association, as you said, Artea. It would be logical for the Municipality of Artziniega and the Artea Ethnographic Association to reach an agreement to ensure operating expenses and also to obtain the economic support of the parliament and finally to present themselves to the public calls of the Government for the development of its programmes for the dissemination, education and improvement of its collection. I believe that the museum has sufficient technical capacity to take part in these competitions and to obtain the assistance requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u115	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u116	Thank you, Madam President, and I would like to thank Mr Zupiria, Mr de Cultura, for his explanations and to note that we share the interest, of course. We share the interest in the Artziniega Museum and also those other museums, some of which – not all of them – I also know. And I also thank him for his reflection and his intervention on the model of governance in relation to museums. Therefore, in supporting this concrete initiative in relation to a museum we base ourselves on what the law itself says in relation to promotion, with the preservation of our museum infrastructures. Article 1 of the Euskadi Museums Act 2006 is very clear in relation to this. And that is why, since we are here and we read the law, which belongs to this Parliament, we ask you, who is the adviser. And, indeed, that of governance is a complex and unique issue, you have said, the management of culture, but the Basque Government has a role, by its power or capacity in economic promotion and also in the promotion of historical artistic heritage, leadership in relation to these issues, and coordination. And in addition, in fact, what is not in culture are duplicates. And there are no duplicities because also article 1 of the Museums Act in its point three speaks of the principle of collaboration. And that is the fundamental element that we understand so that these infrastructures (in this case, this Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega, or other museums such as that of Zalduondo or those that you have been detailing) can have a security in time, institutional collaboration and the public-private with all these institutions, foundations and altruistic associations, and in that sense we must also guarantee that model of governance there. Indeed, the Government has not founded or created any of the museums, but there are special cases, there are also special situations, special moments that require particular support and collaboration, or leadership in this principle of collaboration mentioned in the Basque Museums Act. And of course we're not talking about exceptions. I believe that we are asking for a realistic implication in relation to what you have also said about governance, but also in relation to what the Museums Act itself says. The Museums Act states in its article 1.1(c) and (d) as a fundamental element that they are its object "The defense and promotion of the museum heritage as a guarantee of citizenship of access to culture and education...", elements that entangle with the needs of a museum like this, or "The defense and promotion of the museum heritage as a witness to our history...", nothing that entangles better with this type of initiative like the one I have presented to you and with many others. The Artziniega Museum is our social history, cultural history, closer, linked to customs, linked to the earth. Those are the issues that we want to highlight. And it is also that we value it because the Basque Government has also been involved, has been involved with the rest of the institutions, has been involved in its development. We have to remember on March 25, 2004, at the beginning of the second stage, of the second walk of the museum, how the lehendakari Ibarretxe was there, Councilwoman Azkarate too, at the head of what was also the implication. I guess Mr. Ibarretxe, like Ayals, was there defending a museum from his land. And in 2005 also the lehendakari Ibarretxe himself, on 24 February, also returned there, that is that the implication in relation to the need and interest that we have both shared in relation to that museum is there. What are we going to ask or what can we ask? Well, let's see how we negotiate, or how we negotiate a motion, or how we plan or raise it with the help of the parliamentary groups, but we believe that the work of the Basque Government must also be done. That is, we are talking about museums that have to hold with very cheap entrances and with contributions from very small or relatively small institutions a number of guides, a maintenance of buildings, a program of activities, well, that passes to the Ethnographic Museum of Artziniega and many others. We will try to reach an agreement so that that alert that the association gave in 2016, of course, does not end in bad port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u118	Mr Barrio, it is a pity that this interest in the Artzinega Museum is now in its ranks, because, if this same interest had been expressed by the People's Party when it was ruling in the Álava Diputation and would not have reduced the aid to the museum to a minimum – I believe that it fell from 20,000 euros in 2011 to 5,000 euros in 2012, 13, 14 and 15 – surely the situation of drowning and suffocation that this museum has would not have occurred. And the same could be said of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, in which you had something to do with the governability of the government and there were no funds from the Basque Executive for this museum either. But, well, it's okay for us to look forward. And I have no doubt about the conception you have of this country and that you believe in collaboration between the different institutional levels, and I believe that you and I agree that we should not repeat the operations or actions we do, and that these should be complementary. You tell me about the law. I believe that the law in this sense is very clear. In that article 3 you have read to me, it says that "The Administration will collaborate with the other institutions and administrations in order to promote and improve the museum infrastructure of Euskadi and its funds". He does not say that he has to bear the running costs of a museum. And in this complex system of governance is where the annual calls for aid to museums that I have previously commented on and which set out very concrete actions that the Government must support financially, such as the documentation of the collection, the updating of the permanent exhibition, temporary exhibitions, educational and cultural activities, research, editing and translation of scientific content...; that is where the law establishes an area for developing the government's public policies, and I think that is where we should move. You have the freedom – which I cannot deny, of course – to put forward the appropriate reflection on this issue and to put forward the relevant political decisions, but I would invite you not to create discriminatory precedents. I think that trying to help a museum like Artziniega at a time like this and forgetting everyone else does nothing but create situations of difference that in no way help or order the museum institutions or be able to coordinate this area with some care. And it seems to me very good that I raise a motion for funding the Artziniega Museum, and I will try that the groups that support the Government assume the orientations that I have explained to you here and do not pose in the terms that you have asked me to, but, if you do, I will only ask you not to forget Rialia Museo de la Industria, the Ibarraundi Museum, the Roman Oiasso Museum of Irun, Zerain Cultural landscape, the Cementos Rezola Museum, the diocesan sacred art museums of Bilbao and Vitoria, the Museum of Orozko, the Sagardo Etxea of Astigarraga, the Museum History of Medicine, Luberri, Soinuene, the Museum of Mining, the Museum of Armera Industry, etc., etc., up to 45. Whatever we have to do, let's do it right and we don't create discriminatory situations that I believe are in no way conducive to anyone, beyond a very concrete and short-term interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Appeal, the High Court of Jone, Member of the Combats of the Combats, to the Chief of Work and Justice, concerning the Duty of the Department of Work and Justice." Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u120	Good noon, everyone. In 2016, September, elections. In 2017, in January, in order to explain what has to be done in the legislature, Madam, you appeared at the Office of Work and Justice in order to explain that your objectives, your priorities, were the things you thought necessary to do. And what I'm gonna do is go over what you said and see until now what you said and what you've done. And you, among other things, talked about the penance of the transfer, what things would be done about youth justice, about violence, you spoke about the profanity of the genus. You talked about it, about the persistence of the letter, about the locale, about the free justice. You talked about forensic doctors, the infrascations, the Basque, the Restaural Justice... Here are some examples. Hence it has been more than a year since this parliament and this commission have been made. For instance, a decision was made on the business shift in May 2017, and in this it was said that this Parliament represented all its protection in relation to this turn and to the free justice. Baita ere, 2017ko ekainean meeting point And we asked you, we wrote down the questions, we asked you and we also received answers. And the first question was the question about penance, and the question was the first question when you talked about the transfer, how many prisoners are in prison, and how many degrees of treatment they had, or what sort of penance. Your answer was you didn't know, but you'd ask. We asked it in writing and the answer was that you don't know it yet. From the first question to the second question, you said, "I don't know, I'll try to make a meeting and then I'll tell you what and how." Our question had a direct connection with the transfer: How are you going to make a plan, if you don't know who to do it for? Gehiago egin dugu, a gallbladder. We have asked many times about free justice and the decree of free justice, also in writing, because it is a fundamental question, because we have to change the way we access that, because the forms are impossible to carry out, because there are complaints, because the decree is not doing... You told us in writing "In January 2018". This is April 2018. The decree still doesn't work. We don't know what the delay is for. Yesterday I heard you say it will be in effect in July. Well, I don't know. I'll have to believe him. I know, because the school deans have spoken to you and commented to us, which seems to be already there. But that decree has not even been drafted by you, because it has been done by the law schools. I mean, they've needed more time and they haven't done what they say either, and we're still waiting to see what happens to a primordial issue. On the gender-based violence courts, questions were raised that you have answered in the report that bring us about the implementation of those plans; on this issue, that you continue to look at what you are going to do and that you continue to analyse and see what you are going to do. And there were issues in that proposal as simple as putting a water machine in at a time. Yesterday I went to see if he was, and he's not. I mean, normal and simple things are still not done. I am no longer talking to you about a larger turn of lawyers; I am no longer talking to you about a number of other issues, because the easier ones are not made either. He also spoke to us and we asked him about issues relating to Basque, and you answered us in a resolution that you sent us in writing that today it is impossible, impossible in the short and medium term, to make a judgment in Basque. That's what you told us in writing. But then he told us he was primordial and he tells us about the money he's going to spend on that issue. We have also asked you how the meeting points are going to look, and you have also told us that you have set one in motion and that you are still talking about the others. This is what we see. We waited. We didn't want you to come to you at the first moment and say, "Well, you don't do this, you have to do it differently... "I don't know. We've waited, but while we wait, we don't see the results. The time passed from 2016 to 2018, we think it's enough time to have anything on the table about all these things, and we don't have it yet. And the only thing we hear is that we're looking at, that we're watching, that we're gonna try and we're stuck with it. At his moment, in that scene, we said one thing: It was a consequence of your interference that you planned things without ambition. You didn't answer. Then, too, in another moment and another act, we thought of it, and you told us also that your work was perfectly consistent. And, yes, it's true that in a particular sense, because you follow the examinations, the meetings, the thoughts of things, but all that doesn't come to pass. It doesn't work. We don't see the thing. We don't see him. That's why you made us ask this question. What are you going to do about all these things, the essentials, the important ones? How will you treat them? What do you plan? Of other things, because we want another justice, because we don't want it, because we see that things go on as they are, because we see that deep and important changes are indispensable. Otherwise, what happened yesterday at Iruña may have happened, and I want to take advantage that I have a word and that we are talking about justice to say something clear: We stopped here for a few days and couldn't go to concentration. But what I want to say clearly is that there is not our word, the word of women, that will judge. We clearly see that what happened was something else, that it wasn't abuse and we really believed it. And I want to end this part of my first interference. Thank you, and wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u121	Thank you, signor. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Mrs Goirizelaia, I will be blunt in the answer to your question. My intentions to fulfil the functions of the Department of Labour and Justice are absolute. Besides, I think we're showing it on a day-to-day basis. And I'm going to tell you more: it's not about intentions, it's about facts, and I hope that in the light of the arguments I'm going to give you that you understand it too. With regard to the functioning of the courts of violence against women, I have to tell you, as I will repeat to you later, that this is one of the most dedicated issues for the department in terms of fulfilling its competences, which, as you know, are to provide material and personal means to the Administration of Justice. We are well aware of the problems that arise in this area. One of the most prominent is the adequacy of the buildings in the courthouses to preserve the safety of victims and the appropriate separation between victims and victims, as well as comprehensive care for victims. In this regard, I can tell you that each and every courthouse in the 14 judicial parties in our Autonomous Community has been reviewed to analyse the units of all the courts in order to take steps to ensure, as far as possible, that the parties are separated and that the victims and workers of the court are protected. As a result of this review, a number of actions are being considered, mainly related to the possible use of the multi-purpose rooms, the procedural units of direct support to judges and judges, the restructuring of waiting rooms and witnesses, and the transformation of some possible units into restricted areas of the direct support units themselves and others. I must also say that we are calling for the support of the legal operators (presidents, presidents of the Court, judges, dean judges, judge of violence, legal directors or, where appropriate, coordinators, security officers and staff) to enable the required functional programmes. As a result of this analysis and also of the collaboration, as it cannot otherwise be, of the legal operators, the works have been carried out, in the Palace of Justice of Vitoria, of the court of violence, which are pending the inauguration. I don't have enough time to tell you thoroughly about the contents of the works, but I am at your disposal to expand it whenever you want. This work, we want to extend to the rest of the judicial buildings, and a working group of judicial buildings has been set up consisting of judges, magistrates, members appointed by the Chamber of Government of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and representatives of the Vice-Council of Justice. They are all appreciating the development of a comprehensive plan on the adequacy of the spaces of all judicial buildings, with priority being given to the reception of persons who come as victims, victims, with special attention to those of gender-based violence. Of course, in this work we encounter difficulties arising from the lack of space and others we are trying to overcome, with the desire to meet not only physical needs, but also personal needs. The Victim Care Service is offering a therapeutic, psychosocial, support service to the victim in contact with the judicial authorities, which is carried out in the period prior to the trial, in the preparatory phase and in the follow-up to judicial proceedings and in the trial. We intend to comply with the commitment that the victim should be accompanied at all times. To give you a data, the number of such attentions during 2017 has been 300 among the different types of accompaniment. I insist, Mrs Goirizelaia: the aim is to establish a new comprehensive support service for women victims of gender-based violence. With regard to the points of family encounter by judicial referral, I must also point out that since the beginning of the current legislature of the Department of Labour and Justice we have seen and made clear the need to decentralise and expand the network of points of family encounter and to equip them with all the human, technical and material means necessary for their functioning, as I have made known to this Parliament on time. In the first weeks of 2017, contacts were initiated with municipal representatives of the Commonwealth of Durangaldea Lea-Artibai, Busturialdea and Toulouse, whom I would like to thank for their collaboration. Today all of them are already a reality. In January 2018 the new premises of Bilbao were inaugurated, which have substantially improved the service and which had the opportunity to visit. Last April 20th the family meeting point of Durango was inaugurated, which will give service from May to the Commonwealth of Durangaldea Lea-Artibai, and on the other hand they are already in different administrative phases the one of Toulouse and the one that will give service to the Commonwealth of Busturialdea in the coming months. In order to improve the functioning of this service, in 2017, the rules of operation of the family meeting points by judicial referral in its sections of schedules, users, standards of cohabitation and care of minors, amendments of agreements or compliance, in case of existence, with orders of protection, removal and communication, as well as cancellation or suspension of visits were unified by means of circular 1/2017 of the Department of Justice. To conclude this section, I will inform you that the evaluation report of the service for 2017 will soon be completed, and I hope that the data it reflects will offer a very precise idea of the value of the family meeting points by judicial referral. I now turn to the situation of another of the issues that we have been dealing with from the very beginning, both to myself and to the people directly responsible for the area of justice, as is the elaboration and publication of the Decree of Free Justice. First of all, I would like to express to you a matter of principle, and it is that the office shift and free legal aid are for us an essential public service, which we guarantee with more than EUR 15 million, for people in vulnerable situations to access the administration of justice free of charge. As you know, this new decree is in the final phase of its processing and is the development of a text that has its beginning in 2014, following a proposal of the Basque Council of Law. During the years 2015 and 2016 we work on a text agreed with the professional schools, which – it will agree with me – constitutes the basis of a system that allows access to justice for all citizens, regardless of whether they can pay it or not. This decree incorporates the legislative changes that have taken place in the recent state reforms, both in the area of civil prosecution and in the system of fees in the field of the administration of justice, and corrects the practical dysfunctions detected, simplifying and reducing the burden of management, both for citizens and for the bar associations and prosecutors and for the commissions of free legal aid, which are responsible for the administrative management of the procedures. The decree seeks maximum agility and effectiveness in the management of the free justice system. The following key steps have been taken since the agreement was reached: in September 2016, the public administration and justice adviser signed the opening order. With the new structure of the Basque Government, it was up to the Department of Labour and Justice to continue its work, requiring the various mandatory reports such as gender impact reports or economic memory. At the end of June 2017 I signed the pre-approval order, and from then on the various reports have been requested from the General Council of the Judiciary, the Basque Council of the Bar, the Council of Prosecutors of the Basque Country and the official schools of social graduates. These reports were received in September 2017, have been revised and mandatory reports have been requested from DACIMA, Emakunde and Linguistic Standardization, and the report was subsequently requested from the Office of Economic Control, which is about to be received, with the remaining report from the Legal Advisory Commission. Your Honor, I understand that an extremely lengthy procedure may prove to you, but if we are to provide legal guarantees for the procedures we initiate, we must strictly comply with the provisions of the laws. However, I can tell you, Mrs Goirizelaia, that we expect that in the first days of July the expected decree will be published in the Official Gazette of the Autonomous Community. With regard to the issues you have raised (penitentiary transfers, Basque...), all these issues, of course, are in our daily work and in our daily attention. We do not abandon our functions but, precisely, respond to them; well, there are times when certain issues require decisions that are not unilateral but cover a much broader scenario. And, of course, we are trying to coordinate and reach consensus with all those who have to make decisions on issues that affect us or issues that fall within our functions and competences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u123	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u124	Counselor, make it clear that, if I thought you were leaving your duties, I would not be questioning you, I would be asking for your resignation. That's why I'm asking you, because I think something does. And because my job is to make it better. And if I can help you with that, I'll ask you questions and propose things. And I hope you take them into consideration and carry them forward. You, look, in the first four minutes of intervention you have repeated the word 'possible', 'possible', 'possible' ("We're doing what we can", "We're going to do what we can", "We want to do what we can", "We're going to do what we can"), because, I don't know, I haven't counted them, but maybe ten, twelve times. I mean, it's the reflection of what I'm telling you. You keep doing meetings and doing things and talking to people, but "We're doing our best." But the question is, when is it possible to make reality and concrete? "We keep getting reports," "We keep talking" to one another, to another, but things are still there, as they were. You tell me, "I'm not going to tell you about the works." No, no, if I don't tell you to tell me about the works; I, what I ask you is what it was decided here that it was going to be done and that it was moved to you, how is it? There was talk of the creation of new courts, there was talk of extending the office shift, there was talk of adapting from the first moment concrete and determined things in gender-based violence courts, and all these are not works, they are other things. And you tell me about the works of Gasteiz; for welcome the works, which will surely be better than as they were, I hope, because, as they are like the UPAD, they will surely be a disaster, too. But if they're any other way, we even have to tell her she's okay. Because what you do right we're going to tell you; what happens is that we're here to tell you what you don't do. And then don't tell me what you're doing right, the accompaniment thing. If we haven't talked about the victims' accompaniment! We are talking about other very concrete and very definite things to which you do not respond. And, look, he tells me about the meeting points and he says, "In 2017 we started talking to Lea-Artibai and made contacts." April 2018. And then he tells me, "We made contacts in 2017 and we made a meeting point in 2018 in Bilbao." Do we continue to make contacts to resolve this important, very important, obvious issue, approved here, elsewhere? He doesn't tell me what he's done, he says, "No, it takes a long time." Well, then, let's see if that time can fix it, too. You tell me from the Free Justice Decree that we had to change the rules of operation and that it seems to you that this is a very important task. Indeed, I agree, I am "of the utmost agreement" that the shift of office and all these issues that have to do with free legal aid are very important issues. But look what you told me, they started talking about this issue in 2014 and it's April 2018. I've seen trials faster than these, and look how justice goes. Four years to report and do things that were found to be wrong and needed modification? And since you told me that it's going to be done – January 2018 was the last thing you told me – in April, and we're still missing reports. And then you tell me that all this has to do with the legal guarantee? Well, the best legal guarantee in the world is no delay. The delays go against legal guarantees, and here, what there is is a total and absolute delay in what has to be done quickly to solve all that you have said, in what I also agree with you. But, of course, if it takes us four years to do this, then, look, we're still as we are and we're still waiting for that decree. Because you tell me that it will come out in July; for, we will see, we will see, in June it comes out and in July it comes into force. Just like in September, I have to ask you, or in October, to see where the decree is. Look, what you tell me, do you know what you remind me of – and with this I'm going to end –? It reminds me of what we do practically most people in January every year. We make a list and we say, "I'm going to quit smoking, I'm going to quit eating, I'm going to exercise, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do the other," and we say, "What good intentions I have, I'm going to do all these things!". And it's been a year and the next year we're doing the same list again, because it turns out we haven't done anything. And this is what happens here, counselor: we make a list of the things we have to do, we all agree that that is what we have to do and time passes and we have done nothing. And that's the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u125	Thank you, signor. Time is up. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u126	Well, with regard to what I mentioned in my previous speech, our competence in the administration of justice is the administration of the administration of justice, which is the provision of personal and material resources to judicial bodies. I also say to you that the complex framework of the transfer with regard to how many decision-making powers are within the sphere that affects our competences is important to take account of it in view of any action we are trying to take. That means that everyone has to have an opinion and, of course, has to report. I will tell you, as a fact, that the works at the Justice Palace in Vitoria to separate the victims and the victims have involved 10 projects. I must also acknowledge that I would like some or almost all of them to be implemented much more quickly, but that does not limit our will, of course, to continuous improvement and to respond to all the proposals that are made to improve our services. I will try, in the time I have, to continue to give you more data than we are doing and what we are putting into practice. With regard to the care of victims of gender-based violence, we are talking about training, and apart from specific training programmes and mentoring for officials, which are usually carried out during the past month, two meetings have been held with the Secretariat and technical staff in Emakunde, at the request of the Directorate of Administration of Justice, with the aim of seeking advice on the possible content and development of a training activity, aimed at officials of violence judges on women, with the aim of giving them an integral view of gender-based violence, understanding the cycle of violence, its mechanisms, awareness-raising and masculinities, etc. Advice has also been sought on individuals and companies to carry it out. In the reference proposal, we were also asked to strengthen the courts dealing with gender-based violence by personal means. Well, between October 2017 and April, the different bodies of management, processing and assistance, the so-called reinforcements, have been restructured and increased in four places. I must point out to you that this increase in staff has been the response to the request made by the various courts. The courts that requested these reinforcements were those of Bilbao, Azpeitia and Durango. At present, there are 103 people in the gender-based violence courts. Also, and with the intention of working to improve assistance to women victims of gender-based violence, I can tell you that we will soon have a meeting with the Basque Bar Council to review the convention on legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, gender-based violence and sexual assault, signed in February 2007, whose updating is a shared commitment. Finally, I would like to point out that the works of the Palace of Justice will be an example which we intend to extend, as far as circumstances permit, to the rest of our Community's palaces. Finally, I would like to reiterate to you, as I have been demonstrating to you in my time as head of the Department of Labour and Justice, my complete willingness to cooperate and take into account your initiatives, as I have already said, to improve the service of justice to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u127	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadectation by Jon Hernández Hidedez, a member of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, the present state of the Persistent Organ of the Society." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u128	Sí. First of all, I would like to use the rostrum to express the profound shame that I feel as a man for the fact that there are men capable of committing rapes, because we all know that the sentence that we met yesterday, handed down by men's judges, is an unfair sentence before what we all know is a rape. I am sure that Councilwoman San José also shares this view. Mrs San José, since the signing of the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for this parliamentary term, we have been listening to you, and in particular to you as a Labour Counsellor, the importance that social dialogue supposedly has for the government, and yet it has been you, the government, who have just dynamized that social dialogue. Social dialogue which, on the other hand, had also failed to make it the best example of good understanding between the parties, with the exception of good understanding between the Government and the employer, as has again been shown these days. Once again we find a Government that fills the roles with good intentions in labour relations, but which then, in its daily practice, shows that it does the opposite, as has been shown these days. Among the guiding principles of the government agreement that led you to lead the department is the impetus for social dialogue in employment and economic recovery policies and the consolidation of a permanent framework for negotiation between economic and social actors. This Government has acted on successive occasions in an open manner against that principle which was reflected in its government agreement, disregarding different positions of the social partners to the point of blaming them for having an opinion on different issues which you do not think they should have an opinion on. Against these principles, this Government has also been acting every time it places all responsibility on the back of trade unions for the lack of social dialogue or for the lack of agreements where they do not exist. 28 October 2017: the trade unions Workers' Commissions, UGT and LAB, with ELA and ESK, who excused their lack of assistance for not being able to come that day, appeared in this Parliament at the request of Elkarrekin Podemos to expose their vision of industrial policy, and on that occasion criticized the management of the government and denounced that the Basque Government did not give them a voice within the last industrial plan. You, in your government programme, have made a commitment to promote social dialogue as the best instrument for the conclusion of public policies on socio-occupational matters. To this end, they committed themselves to a permanent body for the development of the institutional participation of social partners, comprising the Basque Government, trade union organizations and business. Among the main trade unions, some decided to participate in the Social Dialogue Bureau because they understood that the Social Dialogue Bureau could indeed be a space to resolve differences with the employer and to address issues related to public, social and labour policies, also with the Government. Others of the major unions understood that this table did not meet the criteria necessary to be an effective tool, and were therefore not in the same. The Department of Labour and the Government of which you are a party have never considered what to do in order to achieve an effective social dialogue table where all parties would consider it appropriate to be, and yet have done so. Charged. The existing Bureau of Social Dialogue has been charged with acting side by side again; they have negotiated unilaterally with the employer, ignoring all trade unions in the country, all those who participated in the Bureau and those who did not. They have negotiated with the employer by marginalising the trade union centres and have reached an agreement only with Confebask, which gives the employer free access to training for workers and unemployed persons, taking into account solely and exclusively the training needs raised by the employer. Trade unions, all trade unions, denounce the content of the agreement reached between their Government and the employer for the following reasons: part of a part-diagnosis, an unconsensual diagnosis with no one, nothing more than the employer, and which only responds to the needs of the employer; the Government confines itself to accepting the demands of the employers; it puts on a tray companies to be able to dispose of free workers on an almost permanent basis. On 16 April, this agreement between the Basque Government and the employer, called the Framework Agreement for Partnership for Employment and Qualification, was published in Euskadi 2018-2020. In its elaboration and signature the Government has participated at the highest level, the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu, accompanied by the Employment Councillor, the Economic Development Councillor and the Education Councillor, precisely the advisers who were with you when the agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau was signed. Beyond the fact that today the lehendakari recognizes the error, we do not share what he said this morning. This is not an open agreement, as the lehendakari has said. In no democracy in the world is there an agreement between government and employers to then tell the unions, simply, to join. The position of the agreement has already been marked by the employer, and therefore exercises a right of veto and imposes its position, and you encourage, tolerate and permit it. You bilaterally agree to an agreement extending until 2020 with the employer. You intend to deal with a number of issues that your Government has already agreed with the employer. That is not serious and it is a democratic shame. The unions cannot be told to join in something you have already signed with the employer. Is this the case or not, Counselor? This has happened. What explains, if not, the reaction of the unions these days? Mrs San José, I ask you in another way: does this disloyalty with all the unions come from only a part of your government? At the signing of the agreement you were not as a work counselor. As a socialist adviser, do you agree with the contents of that agreement? And, above all, do you agree with the ways in which it has been carried out? Do you agree that this agreement should be signed behind the backs of the trade union centres and not only with them, but also with the Bureau of Dialogue? Social that you say push and defend constantly? In order to achieve this agreement, the Government has not had any of the main trade unions in Euskadi, and the Permanent Body for Social Dialogue has been denied, as I say. In view of what has happened, one of your department's main stakes in the field of labour relations (debate and shared decision-making of public policies with social actors) is proving to be a stupendous failure, and I understand that you are the most responsible for that failure. Today we want to know whether you intend to acknowledge the responsibility of your department and the Basque Government to which you are a party in the breakup of the Permanent Body for Social Dialogue. And we think that there are only two options, Mrs. San José: either you are the ultimate responsible for that breakdown of the table, giving a blank letter to the government-patronal agreement that has energized it, or, otherwise, you have been betrayed by your own government colleagues, in which case I wonder how you can stand at the head of the department in a government that betrays it, if so. And, if not, you would be the most responsible for this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u130	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernández, you are asking me about the breakup of the Permanent Body for Social Dialogue and about its responsibilities. I must admit, Your Honor, that my answer is very simple, and I will answer you with facts and skills that both I and my department have maintained and maintain with respect to social dialogue. Furthermore, I believe that this position can be extended to the whole of this Basque Government. First of all, allow me to answer you immediately. The decision of the Workers' Committees and the UGT to leave the Social Dialogue Bureau is a decision of both unions which, as you know from what I have said publicly, I do not share. These are decisions that I do not share, and therefore from the very beginning I have asked you to return to the Social Dialogue Bureau, and believe me that I will do everything in my power to do so. The Department of Labour and Justice is indeed responsible for social dialogue, and I can assure you that this is a work that we are absolutely convinced of the need for its development and consolidation. We see social consultation as an essential element for the advancement of society as a whole. My department believes in tripartism, Mr Hernández, an idea, that of establishing agreements between social actors and governments, which has been driven by an international organization that next year will celebrate its centenary, the International Labour Organization (ILO), which is the only agency dependent on the United Nations Organization whose participants represent governments, workers and employers. We believe more than ever that there are no answers that can meet the great challenges that Euskadi has, that we have Basques and Basques, without the commitment of the social partners and the Government, without agreements that make possible a real economic and social transformation. And to show you that what I am saying is not the result of chance, I will refer to facts and agreements that endorse it, references and commitments on social dialogue that are embodied in the most important documents that underpin the current Basque Government. The second of the six guiding principles of the political agreement between my party (the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra) and the Basque Nationalist Party says: "Public policy on employment and reactivation must be accompanied and promoted through dialogue strengthening a permanent negotiating framework between economic and social actors and strengthening the Basque system of labour relations." What is ratified in the fourth commitment of the same agreement, which is called "Social Dialogue and Participation" and in which we said: "Promoting social dialogue and the participation of workers in enterprises, strengthening economic support programmes and fiscal incentives geared towards this objective. Social dialogue is the best instrument for the coordination of public policies on socio-laboral issues between the Government and social agents. To this end, a permanent body will be set up for the development of the institutional participation of the social partners, consisting of representatives of the Basque Government and of the most representative trade union and business organizations that express their willingness to participate institutionally in the same". As it could not be otherwise, these ideas and commitments were moved to the document "Euskadi 2020, Government Programme for the XI Legislature", a government programme which has a section, "For social dialogue, the social economy and security at work", with a sixth commitment to six initiatives relating to the Basque system of labour relations, the promotion of social dialogue and the promotion of collective bargaining. But I will tell you more: on all the occasions that the Department of Labour and Justice has had to ratify our commitment to social dialogue, we have done so, and as a demonstration I will refer to the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, in which operational scope 8 for improving the quality of employment was incorporated at our request. Its first two priority lines of action establish institutional participation in social dialogue and the promotion of social dialogue and enterprise participation. Your Honor, have no doubt that this is a practice that we will not forget throughout the entire legislature. We have assumed with absolute loyalty and conviction the agreements reached in the last legislature, the agreements of 22 July 2016, and that we wanted to ratify at the meeting that I myself convened on 18 July 2017. From there we have worked to find agreements, we have set up working groups which have met in the Labour Relations Council, with the guarantee that they will participate in these working groups. I must admit to you, Mr Hernández, that there are issues that, because of their complexity, require time and, of course, a lot of negotiation. For many, surely, too slow, but they have always dealt with the will to agree. All this leads to the absence of the classics to disregard the table, but they must be reminded that the Interprofessional Agreement of 17 January would not have existed without the precedent of the agreements of the 2016 Social Dialogue Bureau. By the way, I hope there is no room for doubt about the firm and forceful defence that I made of that agreement the last plenary of control in this House. I am proud to have contributed, as I believe it has done, to the withdrawal by the applicant employer of the challenge to the Inter-Professional Agreement. I will read you some of the commitments made in the collective bargaining agreement, in those also bitterly attacked agreements – I repeat – of 2016. Paragraph for the protection of the Basque area of negotiation. It says: "In order to protect our collective sectoral negotiation it is necessary to give priority to what has been negotiated in the different territories of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, to give priority and to do so as widely as possible through an intersectoral structure agreement that gives application preference, compared to what has been negotiated in another higher area, to those contents that the different sectoral negotiating tables are able to freely agree on. "For this reason," he adds, "the trade union and business organisations that are members of the Social Dialogue Bureau are committed to an inter-professional structured agreement that allows for the real and effective implementation of the territorial agreements of general effectiveness that are signed in the Basque Autonomous Community." With this presentation I try to convince you of the importance it has, of why it is essential that we recover the Social Dialogue Bureau, that we recover Commissions and UGT. It is a good demonstration that the agreements reached in it can subsequently be transferred to other areas. In the Department of Labour and Justice we are not going to deviate from our line of action. We believe in the tripartite agreements and we will continue to push them forward, overcoming all the difficulties that can be encountered. And with regard to the question that you have asked me about the view that I have on the recent judgement for the trial of Pamplona, I do have to say that I respect the proceedings of justice, I respect the separation of powers, and that has been, is and will be a standard of conduct, of course, and of commitment to my institutional responsibility. But that said, from this affirmation and behavior, and also from my political responsibility to intervene in it politically and legislatively, I also have the determination and obligation to observe and act in those conducts and situations where I believe that the protection of the fundamental rights of people has flaws, shortcomings, and where events do not have the treatment that a modern society deserves from justice. A Criminal Code whose drafting – and, if necessary, amendment – depends on policy, in this case, I have no doubt that it is done with such consideration on the human race that in specific cases it could be overwhelmed by the barbarities and atrocities that some people may commit. When that happens, politics has to fulfil its role. Technically, I am not going to give an opinion on it, but I am going to give a political opinion on that judgment, and I can and do consider that our rule of law, whether in higher guarantees or in the legislative initiative of the Government or the General Courts, is in place to review it and to provide cover and guarantees for offences for which there is a lack of concreteness or inadequate treatment. In my opinion – political, of course – Pamplona's multiple rape demands this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u131	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u132	Well, I want to make it clear that I was just trying to share a reflection about Pamplona's sentence that I'm sure, in addition, that any woman – I'm sure – feels outraged at what's going on, and any man should, of course. Mrs San José, in fact, it seems quite serious to me that having dynamized that Social Dialogue Bureau, having expelled the trade unions, there is also the defachability on the part of the department, by the government and also by the groups that support it, who have expressed it, of telling the trade unions that they are the ones who have left and have to return, and that you also reiterate your loyalty to agreements with which they have been absolutely disloyal, with the signing of that agreement bilaterally with the employer. And I believe that you have closed ranks with your government today. He has closed ranks with his Government and, therefore, there is an absolute dissonance between what he constantly says he defends – and what he has again said today that he defends, in terms of the necessity and importance you attach to social dialogue – and the real practice of the Government with regard to social dialogue and labour relations. And the proof of that is the signature of that document with the employer. That document is a document that affects labour relations, and you cannot say that you believe in the tripartite formula when you sign an agreement of these characteristics bipartitely between you, the Government, and curiously, but not casually, the employer. Because he has not signed it bipartitely with the unions ignoring the employer, they have signed it with the employer, and it is more than understandable the goat of the unions. And I think that today there was also a further reason why there were also other trade unions who decided not to participate in that table. I believe that a work department that really believes in social dialogue, when a part of the unions do not participate in it, before holding them responsible for non-participation should also ask itself why they do not participate and what it can do that is in their hands, what needs to be changed so that all parties can feel comfortable and can sit down and talk. Because it is not true that there are unions of any kind that close in on any approach, because, if not, in the reality of companies we see it: all unions, whatever their hair, talk, negotiate and reach agreements with their bosses on many occasions, and, therefore, at the union level that is not acceptable. And a work department that really believes in that formula that you say you believe, first of all, has to ask itself why that isn't working and why we're not all there. But you have also loaded a table at which you were also some of the country's leading trade unions. A table that they claim to defend constantly and that, indeed, is in the papers, but that is also something we have been saying constantly from our group, is a contradiction: it is in the papers, but it is not in practice. And that's why, as I believe in your goodwill, I was wondering if you share that agreement, because even some union leader has dropped like, "Well, this is a part of the government thing," and maybe you're not very comfortable with that. And, if that is so, it seems particularly serious to me, because, of course, I, if I were a Councillor for Labour and Justice and were to be in that situation, would have resigned one minute from knowing the signing of that agreement, I do not know if behind your back, but, of course, behind the backs of the unions and the dialogue table that you claim to be defending. And I want to end up telling you that the recovery from that table is not going to happen by asking the unions to come back to it, I think that's insulting them. The recovery of that table, in any case, must be done in the first place by withdrawing that agreement which they have signed, by nullifying that agreement which they have signed with the employer and, in the second place, by regaining confidence, by sitting down and talking with all the trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u134	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernández, I cannot say anything else – and believe me when I tell you – that my department and the government as a whole wants the meetings of the Social Dialogue Bureau to be restored as soon as possible. For our part, we will continue to work in two directions: one, trying to reintegrate Commissions and UGT into the table; and the other, advancing in the fulfillment of the commitments we have made. One of them is the elaboration of the rule to be established by the permanent body of the Bureau for Social Dialogue. We will present as soon as possible the project that can make it a reality. We therefore want to fulfil the Government's commitment to the social partners as reflected in the 2016 agreements. From the Department of Labour and Justice, any of its officials will continue to insist before the Commissions and UGT that we must all value social dialogue. I know that these representative unions are aware of this. I sincerely hope that the reasons for their departure can be overcome. I have told both unions in public and in private, that I do not share their decision to leave the Social Dialogue Bureau, mainly for a reason, as it is that for us there is no explanation that can be above the need for our society to have social consultation and collective bargaining. Euskadik ezin du aurrera egin trading kolektibo eta elkar-hartze sozialik gabe. Euskadi cannot move forward without collective bargaining and social consultation. Euskadi aims at social and socio-occupational well-being. Euskadi aims at quality employment. Euskadi aims at the best vocational training. Euskadi aims to guarantee the best occupational health and safety. Euskadi aims to meet the challenges of the Euskadi of Industry 4.0 and many others; ultimately, to support and enlarge the welfare state. I am convinced that all this must be addressed with the involvement of the social partners in their role as essential actors for the democratic functioning of our society, with their capacity and obligation to agree; on the part of the Government, by strengthening the commitment to ensure that there is the appropriate instrument for such social consultation, and this is no other than the Social Dialogue Bureau. Let me therefore reiterate our call to the Commissions and UGT for social dialogue, for I acknowledge that they have demonstrated their commitment to it; of the absent, let me also not speak. For my part and that of the rest of the heads of the Department of Labour and Justice, I do not fail the social dialogue; I hope that the difficulties that have arisen will be overcome. And you have heard today, here, the lehendakari first and me now, and we have both reiterated our unequivocal commitment to social dialogue. We'll get it back, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u135	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Barllio Group, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, the application of an Inclusive and Participulative model for the company." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u136	Gracias, president. To conclude the question session, Commissioner, this question, rather than between questions, is how to request an opinion, i.e. recently the representatives of the Arizmendiarrieta Foundation. – already for a while they have had contacts with the parliamentary groups – they have offered a proposal that has been very well received by the parliamentary groups and by the various economic and social actors in the country. That's what we know, too. The Basque dimension of the social economy..., well, you know that I am not one of the commissions in which you participate, but the social economy does unite us in some way, because this initiative that we are talking about connects the social economy with the commercial enterprise in a clear and new way, and that has its novel character. And that Basque dimension of the social economy, the search for new forms of business organization, always has to be observed with interest, and we do, because we are supporting it. That is, an initiative that comes from a forum linked to the social economy, but that wants a different economic translation in relation to the role of the economy and an agreement between different entities. The promoters of this initiative also brought before them a law on private civil society, limited liability with the participation of workers, but it was difficult to articulate, according to the opinion of the government itself, and finally, after analyzing the texts on the participation of workers in the company, all the parliamentary groups – at the moment, right? – we have given a approval to a non-law proposal on the Basque inclusive-participative model of enterprise. An initiative, moreover, which is also accepted by Confebask and other social organizations, that is, in this framework in which it seems, after some interventions, that Confebask is posed as "the evil of the economic situation of the country or of the economic approaches, absolutely far from society" "I say all this, of course, in quotes, don't we?" we understand that it has also had a positive reception – we have been able to consult it – in relation to this type of initiative. For this reason and for the knowledge and for having that opinion before this parliamentary agreement we ask how your department appreciates the feasibility of the proposal of the said foundation in relation to the promotion of an inclusive-participative Basque model of enterprise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u137	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u138	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, you ask me for an assessment of the feasibility of this proposal by the Arizmendiarrieta Foundation in relation to the promotion of an inclusive-participatory business model. I would like to begin by expressing my positive appreciation of the social interest of the initiative to which it refers. This assertion is directly related to the two competencies of the Department of Labour and Justice, which are social economy and corporate social responsibility. I am not going to go into the aspects that are extensively and exhaustively reported in the justification for the non-legislative proposal that was presented by all the parliamentary groups in this House and which has then been withdrawn, I hope or understand that to be improved. Without further delay, because time is short, I will go on to respond to what you pose to me, and I will do so by focusing on the points I consider most relevant. With regard to the one part of the proposal, which calls on the Basque Government to draw up and implement an action plan for the promotion of an inclusive-participative Basque business model for its development in the current legislature, we agree with and agree with a principle we share, such as the realization of an effort for the democratization of the economy that allows for a higher level of social cohesion, giving the person the economic protagonist. This, from the ideological or programmatic point of view, but I would also like to make some clarifications as to what the practical formulation of the proposal might be. With regard to point 1 (e) on legislative policy, as you have also said, this proposal has been analysed from a legal point of view, and this analysis shows that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country does not have the powers to legislate this activity. This circumstance and the possible conflictivity that might arise would not favour the achievement of the objective being pursued. The content of subparagraph (f) has its logical legal framework in the development of chapter III of Law 44/2015 of 14 October of Labour and Participating Societies. This provision makes it possible for public administrations other than the State, and within the scope of their powers, to take measures to promote and encourage the participation of workers in enterprises. However, setting up a register of participating companies, including those with a capital participation percentage above the minimum limit, may be counterproductive for the intended purpose of providing legal certainty vis-à-vis third parties as to the measures to be taken in their promotion. I would propose that this point be put into practice in a development of the current Law on Working and Participating Societies. With regard to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d), relating to the promotion policy of the companies involved, I can tell you that we are working together with the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure and with SPRI in drawing up an order supplementing the order of aid published by SPRI. With regard to points (g), (h), (i) and (j) relating to the measurement, training and dissemination policy of the undertakings involved, we believe that it is perfectly feasible to include those paragraphs in the proposed plan. Point two refers to a competition which is found in other public administrations, such as the outlaws, and on which I prefer not to rule. Mr Barrio, as I see I have almost run out of time, I hope you have responded to what you have given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u139	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u140	Gracias, president. And thank you, Counselor, because, indeed, the work possibilities of the Basque Government on this subject have been brought into play in relation to the assessment and what can be done. Because, of course, this non-legislative proposal that we present, withdraw and we will have to re-submit because there are some nuances to adapt, in fact, gives enough work to the Basque Government – that is why I asked for this assessment –: implement and implement this action plan, normative formulas, registration of participating companies, recently also provide budgetaryly some resources necessary for the dissemination of the model and the implementation of the indicated action plans, some series of awareness campaigns..., that is, it is an important element. And why? Because a new model is being established, a new business model. It's very interesting. It has been functioning for a long time, rather a bit hanging from labour societies and now within this framework of the social economy, and in this sense it has been in reflection and possibilities. It seems that it is now beginning to take value and cohabit, in addition, with social economy enterprises, cooperatives or labour societies and commercial enterprises. Of course, I hope that the result of that reflection that has made us will clear up some doubts so that we can continue to lay the solid foundations for an agreement that I believe is important, above all, that is why I am telling you, because it coexists with the social economy and with the commercial economy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u141	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u142	Okay. I just want to say that when we have the initiative, of course, we will study it, analyse it and share the issues that we will, of course, have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-04-27.u143	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Next, I'll read two institutions of expression. Incremental expression for UNRWA's work: "The U.S. Actor of the Eus declares his protection as the indispensable work which the UNRWA leaves for the refuge of the refugees of Palestine in Gaza and Cyjordian and in the refugees which unite this population. "The US Congress demands that the international community respect for political and economic commitments taken with the UNRWA, and also, in front of the non-fillments of one of the main donors, the United States, calls this community to increase the fund assigned to it, so that the organization can continue its work. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Cooperation Agency to continue and increase, where appropriate, collaboration with UNRWA. "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of the State to maintain its contribution to UNRWA and to consider making an extraordinary contribution in the 2018 financial year, in response to the exceptional situation facing the United Nations Agency, through the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation, and to establish a strategic partnership framework defining the lines of support for the Agency, as well as a multi-annual budgetary support framework. "The American law will send this statement to the Basque and the Spanish State, and to the UNRWA and the European Committee." The institutional expression of the Basque Parliament: "See that the judge of the province of Navarre, the judge of the province of Navarre, regards the scene of the day of July, July 7, 2016, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact. "One. The Eusgarchian makes the victim, his relatives, and his fellow-citizens, entire support and support. "Two. The Basque Parliament shows from respect that he is not agreed with the verdict given, especially because he considers the fact as a continued crime of sex. In that sense, it means that he unites with what the government of Navarre has predicted. It also indicates that the prosecution agrees with the application of resource against the sentence mentioned. "Hiru. The Basque Parliament shows understanding with the disappointment and indignation of women and of all citizens as a result of this ruling. "Four. The Basque Parliament reaffirms that all institutions must act within the framework of the right of every woman to full freedom, and we therefore declare our absolute rejection of any kind of sexist and other aggression against women's freedoms. "Five. The Basque parliament confirms the commitment to continue to work again, in order to maintain true and true equality, in defence of the rights of women, and in order to wrest from women all sorts of violence which are committed towards women and women." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and fifteen in the afternoon.
