ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I inform you that the fourth point has been left for another. Let's start with the previous question: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munaniain, a member of the laws of the Popula team to provide Zuia and Urkabusta with constructions." We're going to start with a vote, the half-correction given by Podemos and Euskal Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u1	So there's been a trap. We vote again. We can vote. Wait a minute, we'll vote again. Now? [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u2	Well, since it's soup, we'll drop it off for the next round meeting. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced together by Jon Hernández Hidaldo, a member of the Podemos, in the present state of the permanent organ of society. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal, Mr. Hernandez, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u3	Yes, good morning. Good morning, everyone. From our coalition we present this motion as a result of an inquiry that we made to him in the last full of control to the Counsellor, Mrs. San José, Counsellor of Labour and Justice...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u4	Quiet, please. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u5	A motion that is the result of that inquiry that we have already said, which is motivated by a matter that we believe is quite, quite serious: the signing of an agreement by the Basque Government with the confebask employer and the territorial employers integrated in Confebask. An agreement signed by the Basque Government with the employers, behind the backs of the trade unions, to deal with and agree on matters which also concern trade unions and thus to boost the existing social dialogue table, which had been one of the Government's leading measures on the issue of labour relations and therefore seems to us to be a particularly serious matter. The answers given to us by the counselor made us ask our group to introduce this motion, because, while the situation we thought was serious, the answers seem to us to be even more serious. The signing of this agreement, as I also explained in the interpellation, involved the breaking of the social dialogue, which is one of the elements from which this Government has breast-feeded and, in particular, the Department of Labour and Justice has tried to breast-feed and has said that it is a very important matter for the Government and to which it says it devotes a great deal of attention. And we have seen with the signing of this agreement that what has happened is that that social dialogue has been disregarded, knowing, moreover, that we have a situation in which this very social dialogue was not being done properly. We believe that an agreement has been signed at the service of the employer, which shows something that we too have been saying in different interventions on different matters, that this Government is a government that in the employer relations, it is a government that places itself on the side, is constantly placed on the part of the employers. And, therefore, it stands against the workers constantly. And the signing of this agreement we think was the drop that filled the glass. And it shows us, that it has been the element that has overwhelmed the patience of the unions, that they had considered it opportune to be at that social dialogue table, trade unions that had decided to be at that social dialogue table, even though they knew that this could have a cost to them, because that table was born, because two other unions, of the four majority unions in the country, had considered that the table did not meet the requirements to be able to participate. And yet, Workers' Commissions and UGT were at the social dialogue table and have met with none of the government with the signing of this agreement. We believe that the answer given to us by the Counsellor is an unacceptable answer. It is unacceptable because it once again placed on the part of the Government the responsibility for disagreements on the trade union side. We asked the government to see if it was capable of self-criticizing. We asked him to see if he was capable of self-criticizing that two of the country's leading trade unions were not at the social dialogue table, to see what the Government had responsibility for this and to see what the Government was capable of doing to resolve this situation. And we asked him for self-criticism as to the fact that the two unions, Commissions and UGT, which did participate in the table, would have had to leave it. And we find ourselves with zero self-criticism on the part of the government and, on the contrary, we find ourselves again with the government putting all responsibility on the trade union side, and he just told us that he did not agree with the trade unions' decision to leave the table and that they should come back. I already said that our opinion was to insult the unions, when we had already heard the well-argued reasons why they were forced to leave the table. Of course, from the government no withdrawal of the agreement, which is one of the requests we made and which is one of the requests also made by the unions. And the only answer given to us is that the Government intends to make regulations to regulate the social dialogue table, before which we wonder what social dialogue table? The one that's been dynamized? In which right now are not the representatives of the workers? We are often constantly accused and, in particular, I am often accused in this Parliament of getting involved in matters which some consider to be exclusive dialogue between employers and trade unions. And today we are told to present a regulation to regulate social dialogue. That should have been done by the Government with the trade unions. A long time ago. If he thought that it was necessary to regulate the negotiating tables with trade unions and employers, he should have put it to them. That is not a solution to the misconception that this Government has carried out. For this reason, we are tabling a motion today which has three points. These are three very specific points. We do not intend to challenge the general policies of the Government again with this motion, because that is something we will continue to do on a constant basis, with all those elements that we do not agree with. But these are three elements that we think are fundamental at the moment and, of course, fundamental if this Government wants to have some sort of credibility in what it says to attach importance to social dialogue and the involvement of social actors in public policies. We want, we say, that the Government must aim to involve trade unions in this social dialogue, but that cannot be done with the positions maintained by the Government and the groups that support it, that must be done by taking firm steps. And, therefore, the first of these steps is the withdrawal of that agreement, an agreement that should never have existed and should be criticized by this Parliament, but not only by the forms, but also by the contents, because this agreement – as I said – has been the drop that has filled the glass and that shows something that we have been saying, this government's policy is an anti-union policy. We have also said, on the occasion of the interpellation, that the anti-union policy of the Government has been constantly being demonstrated and, therefore, the trade unions, all of them, are constantly on the warpath and with constant conflicts in different fields; in the civil service, in different Public service sectors where the government's modus operandi is to present drafts and not negotiate. In the private sector, with a government incapable of reaching agreements between the social partners, a government incapable of facilitating social partners to reach agreements to fill in the framework agreements that the trade unions, all the trade unions, say they are willing to reach. An anti-union policy in public employment policies. We have already said that, with regard to industrial policy, all trade unions have complained that this Government has had nothing to do with them. We called for all trade unions to appear in this House, to put forward their views on industrial policy, and they did, but they also took the opportunity to complain about that precisely, that the government does not have trade unions in developing public policies. And neither do employment policies, where employment plans also have the criticisms of trade unions, despite the fact that the Government is constantly trying to convince others that what they approve, and what they bring to Parliament and what they approve in the Basque Government, has the approval of trade unions, which is a lie and is constantly demonstrated. That is why we believe that the government's policy is erratic but, above all, contradictory. It cannot be that we are constantly told from the Department of Labour and Justice that social dialogue and tripartite agreements are an absolute priority and, constantly, we are faced with a bipartisan modus operandi between the Government and the employer, and that what the Government's policies do is dictate them to the employer. Normally this is not done in the public eye and the policies of the Government, dictated by the employer, are dictated in dark rooms; but this time the Government has made the mistake of signing an agreement with the employer that we all know and that has filled the patience of the unions. That is why it seems to us that the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government is an amendment which brings nothing and which, above all, and this seems to us to be serious, is an amendment which once again places the responsibility for the lack of social dialogue on the union side. It is an amendment that responds again to the needs of the employer, in order to justify and not to reverse an agreement, which not only because of its forms, but also because of its contents, is an agreement against the workers. An agreement that leaves in the hands of companies all the decisions that have to do with qualification, training and the employability of workers. These are issues that cannot be dealt with without the opinion of the trade unions: the qualification of workers, training of workers, recruitment of workers and workers. Cannot be treated Only with the employer. That is what this Government has done and that is what the Commission is proposing. Amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. That is why we deeply regret what is happening and the position of the Socialist Party seems to us to be particularly serious. Because I told the lady advisor in the interpellation that I believed in her goodwill, and the truth is that I'm increasingly less and less believing in this. Because I think there is an absolutely obvious contradiction. We do not accept, it seems to us, an insult that is constantly being appealed by the Councilwoman, who is the Government, to the importance of social dialogue, to the importance of social actors and trade unions participating in the elaboration of public policies, and not only does the Government elaborate public policies without trade unions, elaborates them with the employer, but also, in the star element that had been raised from the Department, that it was to have a stable social dialogue table where the unions participated, that the bureau is kicked, that no one is kicked and that "the policies of the Government are closed with the employer and then, if you want, come and talk about what we have already closed". The agreement with the employer is a closed agreement. The unions cannot now be told to come to their opinions on an agreement that has already been concluded with the employer. What will the government say to the employer if the unions in the end were to sit at that table to deal with an already closed agreement and put on the tables their demands, and put on the table all the elements with which they disagree with that agreement signed with Confebask, which are many elements for what we have known so far about what the unions have already expressed? What is the government going to say to the employer? What we have signed with you now must be reversed? Should we push it back? I don't think this government is going to do that. So it's not the forms, but it's not the content either. What has been done is a huge misconception, a misconception that comes to show that the government's policy is constantly looking at the interests of the employer. A government that renounces the country's economic policy as directed by the government itself, and is directed by entrepreneurs, and is done without the workers. We cannot accept this, and we cannot accept this at the same time as we are told by the workers from the government itself that social dialogue is very important and that for this government the trade union centres have to participate in public policy. They are not being allowed to participate in public policy...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u6	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u7	... Neither those who are more demanding with what these tables have to be, nor those who were willing and participating in those tables. One thing has been done that is not just a form error, as the lehendakari acknowledged. What has been evidenced is the general policies of the Government, at the service of the employer and against the workers. And this is only reversed by withdrawing that agreement and starting from scratch, talking to the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u9	Hello, good morning, everyone. I'm going to start by telling a joke, although I don't have the grace of my partner Otero, but, even if it's a serious issue, I think it's an illustrative joke about the issue we're talking about. The boss buys a new car, a cochazo, and shows up with him at the company and some workers stare and admire that cochazo. He gets off and in front of one of the most admirable workers I asked him, "You like the car, don't you?" And he says, "Yes, boss." "Well, look, if you work hard, but if you work hard, very hard, very hard, the next car I'm going to buy will be even better." That is the philosophy of the employer we have in this country. They say it's a tractal company and everybody's going the same way in the same boat. We told the president last week that there could be a tratine where the government and the Confebask are composed, a tract in which the patronala carries the titimi and the government paddles. But the unions and those who know the world of euscal, buy the metaphor for the ship, but think that the present state of business, as the patriarch has designed it, is not a transnique, but a loss. A galley in which some go comfortably into the captain's cabin, others tied up and rowed, while the Government, in this case, beats the drum and shakes the whip. Patronal's work model, as we have recently known, is the model that has been punished in the DHL firm to reject the unions and impose restrictions on them. They're telling us that we're in recovery, that the economy is better, that we're on our way. And it's true, if we see the macronomic data, we see how the Gorde product of Interior grows and besides, in our community, the slow growth of our community. Growing around 3% in historical parameters would be a very good news next door. But the question we have to ask is whether the first question is to be asked in the pictures of thieves and police or in the investigations of corruption: Where's the money? Where's the money? Where is the growth? Historically, we have been told that economy is a pie, and that if the cake grows, the share of them will increase in proportion. But that's not the case, that's not what's happening right now. Where's the money? He's not in jail. We have suffered a long time to be bribed to our advantage. The last date we have recently known, is in the form of Aecco, which is said to have been lost in this community at 2017 at the rate of the purchase power, which is added to the percentage that has been lost in the last few years. There's no recovery at all. Even in pensions there is no recovery, and I will not prolong it, as the pensioners are in the street, proclaim and accuse what has been suffered. Even in order to improve public services, there's no more money on the table, and in the budgets of 2018, if the amount counts to pay and pay TAV, we conclude that there's less public funds than in 2011 to have strong public services. So, where's the money? He's not in retirement, he's not in pensions, he's not in public service. A short time ago we were told where the money was: In the Spanish state, 15,000 million more in the dividends, this year, if we compare it with the situation of 10 years ago. For those who receive such separations, there is a passivity. If we compare the divisional distribution to the first year than the crisis, if we compare it with 2008, it is sharing one third more in the dividends. It was a growth. 33%. So there's the money. There's growth, but all the profits of this growth are being distributed. And he's in the service of those corporations. Instead of placing it for a new balance, for a direct balance, for the free demand of the workers, it's either on the side of the patronal or on the side of the patronal. And we have seen this last chapter, in this union or in this alliance, recently after we have seen what has happened with the table of social conversation. A table that was very weak from the beginning of the government, a table that had been born lame. But he's been dead from being lame. The Basque employer aligns itself with the more conservative approaches of the Spanish employer. The Basque employer does well that said of Warren Buffett, who is not precisely an advocate of the workers, but one of the richest people in the world, who said that there is, in fact, class war, but that war is making it my class, the class of the rich, and we are also winning it. And Confebask, the class war, is winning it in this country with the help of the government. Confebask says that raising taxes on entrepreneurs is bad, because a tax reform that raises taxes on them can harm the country's recovery. So, what's the government doing? Lower taxes on entrepreneurs. Confebask says it's good to lower the layoff. Confebask says reducing dismissal would help the economy. Confebask says that public employment is bad and that massive OPEs discourage entrepreneurship. Confebask doesn't want strong public services. Confebask does want budgets agreed between the PNV and the People's Party and says it's good that there are budgets. Confebask is aligned in the most orthodox, more intransigent and more right-wing positions of the employer. Because we think the duty of any government is the best contact with corporations. We don't think that the government has to break up with the patricians, we must always try to get along with the corporations, and the government has to try to help, to encourage, to encourage, to encourage, to encourage, to encourage. We don't deny that, but with the position we have today on the patronal, we believe that the government's attitude must be quite different, and that it's time for the government to plan. This we say in a rhetorical tone, because we believe that the Government really has a very access to Confebask, and that what has happened with the table is not a coincidence. Important things don't forget. The reflection of a mentality, that employment policies ought to be decided with the patricians, and the government has forgotten, Ostras, a table of interviews, we might perhaps be able to pass this plan on the business from that table. Don't even think about it! Then they say that there was perhaps a mistake, but this defect has been very significant. It has been a mistake that forms have been lost, but we believe that the government follows, and that the most important things must either be concluded with Confebask, or worse, must be done in Confebask's dictate. If we see the main columns of economic policy, if we go through them one by one in this country, we'll see how the governments and the patricians do all the same. The industrial policy is what the patrician wants, and it has often appeared in the press in public to applaud the government industry as long as all the unions say that it's not a real and effective policy. The legal instruments we have in touch are the imposed by the patricians in Madrid, but if they have been introduced in Madrid, the patricians have applied their heads to their ears and taken advantage of their profit and the conditions of laboring and laboring. What to say about the state of the public prosecutor, what to say about the tragedy which we have lived in this country, from which it began to say that the more taxes were required to promote public services, and even to promote the economy, and finally to stop the patricians, and finally to reduce the taxes to the corporations. And the last chapter, as I said, besides the industrial policy, the work relations, and the prosecution, which happened with the job. On the part of the Euskal Herria Bildu there is no will to make a policy of denying bread and salt to the government. On the next item on today's agenda, we will have an important agreement on employment policies. Nor do we believe that trade unions are – even the most belligerent or the most combative – closed at all to reaching agreements, and it has been seen that when proposals are put on the table, agreements can be reached. But it is imperative that this Government abandons the attitude of complete alignment and would say more, of complete submission to the dictates of the employer, so that it can regain the necessary confidence so that a real social dialogue can be given. Of course, the first point in that direction would be to finalize the current Social Dialogue Bureau and start a dialogue that starts from the self-criticism of the Government to try to convince the social actors that a social dialogue can be given on an equal footing, and that not all the contents that would then be passed to a table to fulfil a formalism are written in advance. They're going to make a bad way to convince those unions that the Social Dialogue Bureau was a trick to stage a supposed dialogue, when things were coming together somewhere else with events like the one we've been living around the employment agreement. Rectify, start from scratch, the truth is that in the face of society and in the face of some unions they do not start from scratch but start from under 20, but try because this community deserves a social dialogue that bets to overcome the real problems of wages, precariousness, deterioration of the labour market, employability, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u11	Good morning, everyone. We are debating today a motion tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos after the inquiry, as his proposer has quite rightly said, which was made to the Counsellor of Labour and Justice, concerning the situation of the social dialogue table. And I want to start my speech, Mr Hernández, recalling that since the decision in the mandate of the socialist government of the lehendakari Patxi López, to recover the table of social dialogue as a forum for channelling agreements between social agents, the socialists have never abandoned this path, neither being in the opposition nor being in the government. It was clearly told by the councilwoman Saint Joseph in the past full of control, she tried it in all her interpellation, and I intend to reiterate it today from this rostrum. For the Socialists, Mr Hernández, public policy on employment and reactivation must be accompanied and promoted through social dialogue, thereby consolidating a permanent framework for negotiation between economic and social actors, and strengthening the Basque system of labour relations. This is our determination, Mr Hernández, that in this matter we have incorporated into the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and it has its reflection in the government programme to be developed during this parliamentary term. And that's the bet that was made from the beginning, and I'm telling you more, that's the bet that's going to be made to the end, that's done and that's going to continue to be done by the Department of Labour and Justice with Councilwoman San José at the front, because we firmly believe that social dialogue is the best instrument for the concertation of public policies on social work between the Government and the social partners. And it's not a position, Mr. Hernandez, as you think, just to write a paper, you're lately unbelieving, and neither is it that I believe you have to do an act of faith with what we tell you from this rostrum, no, it's just, Mr Hernandez, the facts are also with us. The Socialists have assumed with absolute loyalty and conviction the agreements that have been reached at the social dialogue table, both in the last legislature and in this one. I remind you of the agreements of 22 July 2016, the interprofessional agreement of January 2017, the meeting of 18 July 2017 and the working groups set up within the Basque Council for Labour Relations. I think you were asking that why regulate the table, because look at it, regulate it – you asked the question in your first round – I ask you: I will say why, in order to comply with the agreement with the parties agreed in July 2017, in which, by the way, the government, the department, has already presented the basic lines with which such regulation has to be made, in order to reach agreement with whom It must be agreed, which is with the social partners. Therefore, the Socialists are working hard and we will continue to work on the search for agreements and on the conclusion of agreements as a working method. We will continue to devote all our efforts and take advantage of all the tools that our self-government provides for it. We want to do this with the help of the social partners, with the help of the trade unions, because we believe that in the design of public employment policies and in labour rights we must have the help of the organisations that represent precisely workers, because this was also agreed in the Basque Employment Strategy. We want to count on everyone, without exception, despite the fact that the absent classics and some of their spokesmen despise the social dialogue table as a valid body, because, although not all trade unions have so far shown the same will, it is never too late to demonstrate the capacity for dialogue, something that would surely be good if they were to take note. Of course, we believe that both the Workers' Committees and the UGT have shown plenty of willingness to contribute to these public policies and so, once the lehendakari has acknowledged the error of having dispensed with them in the way of addressing initiatives for the creation of quality employment, we from Parliament also want to call on all parties to recover the social dialogue table as the best opportunity for concertation. And we do so because we share with them, with Workers' Commissions and with UGT, the commitment to social dialogue as a valid tool to defend the interests of workers, as they have stated very recently. And because, as they say, we too believe that the battle must be fought to return to the path that has to be turned and that it is no more than that of the scope of the concerted social dialogue. That is why we insist on the need to resume dialogue at the social dialogue table. That is why, today, from this Parliament, what we want is to work with the Government and the social partners to overcome the reasons that have led to their march, because I fully share with the Council that there is no explanation, no explanation, that can be beyond the need for our society to have social consultation and collective bargaining that will facilitate agreements for the advancement, protection and coverage of those who need it most, who are the workers and the workers. That is why, although I believe that I have, in our amendment we ask for three simple but clear and concise things: that the necessary measures be taken to ensure that trade union organisations consider their participation in the debate and decision-making spaces on public policies to be timely; that the Department of Justice and Labour agrees and approves the drafting of the rule governing the permanent body of the social dialogue table; and that the Government forward, as it has committed itself to this social dialogue table, the content of the framework agreement for cooperation on employment and qualifications in Euskadi 2018-2020. For what? They also told you here in the full past, which happens that I don't know if you sometimes want to listen. They told them: for their contrast, for their improvement, for their Enrichment, for development and for follow-up. An amendment, Mr Hernández, from our point of view, which is both a proposal and a positive one, with a clear and concise aim: the recovery of understanding at the social dialogue table, the recovery of confidence. Confidence does not recover by finishing the bodies or by finishing the relations, but by making efforts and in that you will always find the socialists, in order to recover an organ in which the parties can agree in a consensual way between them the policies necessary for the incorporation – do not forget – of the workers into the labour market. And to do that, we need the agreement and the agreement of the two parties involved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u13	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. As has already been mentioned, we have discussed a motion following Mr Hernández's appeal to the Councillor for Labour and Justice in the last plenary session. We all know that in that plenary Mr Casanova also asked questions on the same question, in this case addressed and answered by the lehendakari. I would like to start by recalling two quotes from those two answers. Chief San José: "He can't go on without collective negotiations and social intercourse." The President said: "Our end is clear and precise, creating more and better employment." That is, an essential tool to achieve a vital goal for our community. I would also like to review some basic ideas on the issue: who, what, where, when and, of course, how. What? What are labor relations? Moving away from the more institutional or legal level, we could say that labor relations are the sum of interactions, formal and informal, between subjects or collective actors, and that they consist of obligations, rights and powers assumed between them around work. Labour relations are a shared area between sociology, economics, law, politics, psychology... I mean, as the counselor told us, a complex reality. To its intrinsic complexity we must unite a change of scenarios that involve them: technological progress, progress in management techniques... More complexity. Who? Better, who? Who are these actors? Labour relations are based on the joint action of three main actors: the workers and their representatives, the employers and their representatives and the Government. The specific weight of each of the actors and the relationships between them is not identical in all models, nor has it remained invariable over time, and it is not expected that this evolution will stop, it is essentially dynamic and changing; complex, the counselor told us, and also changing inside and also in a changing, more complex environment. Where and when? In many places and moments. Today, without us being the main actors, Mr Hernández, we are making labor relations. And no one tells you not to do it. Well, the government does, the government is a major actor. With our function of impulse today, we make those relations, Mr Hernández. How? This is the question of our debate today, how, how we do labour relations or how we can do them, or rather how we should do them in order to be of quality. We must do so with a formula of cooperation between the three actors in a broad sense: the formula of social dialogue. The counselor emphasized, the idea of tripartism told us. In the face of the challenges posed today by the globalized world and with the aim of reconciling the imperatives of social justice with the competitiveness of enterprises and economic development, social dialogue is necessarily required. Social dialogue, collective decision-making based on a broad inclusion of the three actors affected by them, because it must be based on negotiation, cooperation and consensus. I mean, everyone's responsibility. From these premises, I would like to respond to two questions focused on the subject of this debate. First of all, you tell us, Mr Hernández – and I quote you – "the supposed importance for the government of social dialogue and, however, it has been you, the government, who have just boosted that social dialogue." Today too, he said so today too. He said it in his interpellation, he says it today. Mr Hernandez, this is a repeated unjust statement. Besides, it's not true. And I use the argument of his own interpellation, in which he spends all his intervention talking about dynamite, charging him, even kicking him today, so I tell him that it is a repeated and unjust statement. And yet, he ends up telling us – and I quote again – "in the reality of companies we see him; all unions, whatever their hair is, talk, negotiate, come to agreements on many occasions." Be clear, Mr. Hernandez. Is the social dialogue finished, dynamized, finished? Or are you talking, negotiating and reaching agreements on many occasions? Clear up, clear up. I agree with the second of your personalities. Social dialogue, union participation in consultation bodies and negotiation between workers' and companies' representatives has existed, exists today and will continue to exist. Don't overdo it. Don't overdo it, because that overdoing leads you to contradict yourself. I could give you many examples of that healthy existence, with its tensions, indeed, with its tensions, tensions arising from its complexity. Examples of negotiations that take place on a regular basis in areas of collective bargaining, both at sectoral and enterprise level. Examples of instruments and bodies in which trade union participation takes place: Labour Relations Council, Economic and Social Council, Lanbide Board of Directors, Osalan General Council, Basque Vocational Training Council. Examples in the field of public administration are still being negotiated. Negotiation continues in the open public administration, at all tables, both in the general administration, at the education tables or at the negotiating table of the Department of Safety and Security, continues. You over act, and contradict yourself in your speech, as today. He also overacts in the texts he writes. In the face of these overruns of his initiative, we have tabled an amendment in its entirety. As a parliamentary group, it has already been explained, but from our point of view, we have a strong commitment to dialogue and social consultation. That's why we make that exhortation, everyone. It is also very important for us the table tool; therefore we are looking for an agreement to agree and approve the regulations governing the functions, contents and methodology of your work. We also ask the Government to refer to the social dialogue table the content of the framework agreement for its assessment, contrast and enrichment, because it is an open instrument, as well as for the follow-up of how many actions are being taken, and we do so without overacting, Mr Hernández. We do so with the basic premises of social dialogue itself and with a clear and simple text. The second question, and linked to the third point of our amendment, Mr Casanova, who has been very monologue today, was asking a question already in his day, which today has also again transferred the same concept to the lehendakari: has the Basque Government left the orientation of public policies in the hands of Confebask? Mr Casanova, the question is answered on its own. This government rules. This government rules. It complies with the policies set out in its programme and this Government decides on public employment and training policies, although it weighs on you. And these policies have a clear and defined objective: to create more and better jobs. Basque companies in their 2018 report state that they will need to hire 100,000 people on the horizon, on a horizon close to 2020. They also add the identification of the job profiles and professionals they will need. The obligation of this Government, the responsibility of this Government, is to respond to these employment needs and to adapt the programmes of action as best as possible so that there is not a single job left unfilled. That is that obligation, that is that responsibility, and it is the best response that can be offered to the job seekers in Lanbide and those who are completing their training now and who are going to join the labour market in the coming years. You to this responsible action of the government call you to put yourself in the service of Confebask. I call him to serve people with exciting life projects. You call this responsible government action submission attitude today too, today too. Many people – not just me – call it having a future in capital letters. He initially said that labor relations are a sum of interactions, i.e. reciprocal actions between different actors. In an interaction with such specific actors as this, such as labor relations, observers, citizens, he immediately observes, they immediately observe those observers who add up and who remains. You, you, even if you are not the main actors, with this you present us today, you remain; today you remain. However, this Government, with its action, continues to join forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. It's your call, Mr. Arbulus, that's your call.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Hernández, on behalf of Elkarrekin We can now ask us to reject as Parliament the framework agreement for cooperation on employment and qualifications in Euskadi, and to urge Mr Lehendakari and his Government to cancel this agreement in their part, signed with the representatives of the business sector of the autonomous community. We, Mr Hernández, cannot accept this proposal from you, and I will try to explain briefly why we do not share it. We do not share it because we do not feel it is welcome to call for the breaking of an agreement that has been signed between the Administration, the Government and the employer, an agreement that is aimed at the welfare and improvement of the working conditions of the workers of this community, because there is a defect in form, by the fact, not that the agreement is bad. Because you have not come here to criticize little by little, step by step, program that agreement or the objectives you pursue, but you have just come to tell us that we have to break that agreement because the trade union organisations have not been consulted, they have not been counted on. Therefore, let's say that for a problem or an error of form or procedure. I share with you, logically, the importance of social dialogue, the importance that the representation of workers must have at the tables of social dialogue. I do not share with you that you have to be present in the preparation of all the debates and in all the decisions of public policies, because precisely I believe that one of the problems we have here is the character or the direction that the trade union organisations are taking. That is to say, it is curious that if the political parties represent the citizens, the citizens have a very wide spectrum of different solutions to the problems of the citizens, but when we find ourselves in very specific problems of the workers of this country, it turns out that the spectrum of solutions that the unions give us is completely different, for a simple reason, because their objectives are also not precisely the defence of the rights or interests of the workers, but other different interests, generally political interests that go beyond the purposes that they should defend. That is why I do not share your first or first part of the non-law proposal that brings us to debate today. I do not say that it is that absence of social dialogue which is the exclusive fault of trade unions, nor much less, but I do say that I believe that for a long time now the absence of dialogue is due, among other things, to the fact that the interests of trade union organisations are of course going beyond or beyond the true interests of workers. Because on this occasion, all the trade unions have left this Social Dialogue Bureau, they have all left, but what would happen – you could imagine that scenario perfectly – if the last two trade union centres had remained? We are on the basis that the agreement without the majority trade union centre would not make much sense either and, of course, many would criticise it and say that the agreements that will be made at that table without that majority nationalist union does not make sense. But when, at the beginning of the year, the other big union of nationalist unions also left the table, what sense does it make, what credibility would those agreements have with two minority unions? And what would happen – I don't want to think about it – if only one had stayed, for it would have been a disaster. And we have seen this in many companies, when negotiations are being carried out in large companies within the committees on which all the trade union forces are effectively represented, when one stays and a signature with the employers, the others come out with a knife, not in defense of the workers but in the internal wars of power that trade union organizations have. That is why, I say, we reject that first point of your initiative. Secondly, we cannot, of course, reject this agreement because of a procedural error, when we do not even begin to analyse whether it is good or bad for job creation and the training of workers, for the future of the Basque workers. And, of course, in the last case, at the last point, we cannot ask the Government to cancel an agreement, because it would completely lose credibility. I am also critical, and I believe that the Lehendakari has acknowledged that a mistake has been made, and I am critical that this agreement has indeed been reached without the workers. What I don't know, from my humble knowledge, if there was any chance of reaching an agreement or there was any chance of reaching some... I don't know, open some door even inside a table where the interests of each of the unions outweigh the workers they represent. In the end, to congratulate this annulment, I understand that it is a blow to the credibility of the Government as well as to the interests of the citizens. Nor do we share, Mr Casanova, your position and the amendment that you have tabled, but I do share the simile that you have given us. I think the Social Dialogue Bureau really looks a lot like a trainer. I don't know who the boss is or who the rowers are. In particular, I think that there are, indeed, the business organizations, there are the representatives of the workers, there is the Administration, there is the Government, but I do not know if the bosses are the bosses, as you have said, or is the Government or there is no boss. The reality is that everyone rows in their air and that's our problem. And this isn't a training, this is a real regatta, this is a real regatta in which the solution for some seems to be to pull out of the trainer. There have been rowers who have already thrown themselves into the water, and that's all he gets is to leave us in an inequality of forces in front of the others who are competing with us who are actually throwing hard. And I am not talking about other areas or other business organisations or other social dialogue tables, I am simply talking about the development of the economy of other countries. Here we're getting mad at ourselves and the data is on top of the table. If everyone keeps rowing at their own pace and others throw themselves into the water directly to stop rowing, the result will be bad and we will end up losing the race. And that ultimately goes against the well-being of all citizens. Perhaps, and I said at the beginning, the problem is not exclusively with workers' representatives, perhaps the problem is not with trade union organisations, perhaps the Government is also to blame in this absence of dialogue. Here we have heard the unanimous criticisms of all trade union organizations, either when they tell us about public employment in which the Government is the largest employer in the Autonomous Community, or when they, these trade unions, call for government intervention to reach agreements at the tables of dialogue aimed at employment, to the workers of private companies. Such a lack of attitude for dialogue should lead or lead to some reflection. This is a clear example of how things are not really doing all the good that should be done. And that is why, in the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, I believe that there is a lack of self-criticism in this regard, and I also think that the solution is not the regulation of the social dialogue table, what needs to be done is to change the attitude, start from scratch and get to work immediately. A regulation of that table will serve absolutely nothing, especially with the theories that we are seeing lately that they are placed on the table, that for what the laws serve, for what the normative frameworks serve when we skip them, because we are eager and because we are the first. Regulating that table may not be bad, but of course, I don't think it's the solution. And sending that text to an empty table because it doesn't make much sense either, because for what? So the government can see it? So that business organizations can see it? I think you've seen it, you've studied it, you've discussed it, you've negotiated it and you've signed it. What needs to be done is to call those who have left that table and ask them to sit down, and for that what I think is needed is simply a change of attitude that is already late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, Mr. Hérnandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u17	I have a slight difference of appreciation with Mr. Casanova. I think it's not that the Basque employer aligns with the Spanish employer, I think that the employer aligns with its class and the Basque employer and the Spanish employer, as well as other employers in other parts of the capitalist world in which we live, align with its class. Because labor relations, we like them more or we like them less, Mr Aiartza, has made a definition of what labor relations are somewhat extensive and I don't know if academic, but labor relations dictate the interests of two groups, interests that are not only different, but are conflicting interests. And therefore, and therefore, in public policies and governments, it is very important that in the face of conflicting interests of two social classes in our society, it is not placed on one side of the balance. I would have no problem with a socialist government positioning itself on the side of the working class balance, but the general arguments of this government and other governments are that there has to be a balance. And what we have come to say is that this Government has constantly broken that balance, in addition to constantly putting itself on the side of which is stronger in itself and which in itself the labour reforms have already placed it in a position of strength. And no, it's not just a question of forms, I've talked about it's not a question of forms, it's a question of forms because it just breaks that social dialogue, where in a democratic way the social actors can resolve those differences of interests. But it is also a matter of content, and I have not developed all the content here, because there will be occasion, but because first, first, the unions will have to make the profound criticism of the content of that agreement, but they have already made some criticism of it, an agreement that has been signed without them and is now being asked to make their assessments and contributions. The problem of agreement is also of substance, and I have said this in my previous speech, and I said it more briefly the other day in the inquiry, because it puts at the service of employers political questions relating to qualifications, concerning vocational training, concerning employability, it puts it only from the point of view of the interests and needs of employers. So, of course it's an agreement, of course it's a content problem too, so I wonder, we have it clear, for us it's a content problem, but we We have come here to say that this has broken the social dialogue and the social partners are already going to be asked to say the content problems that exist in that agreement. But I wonder, is the Socialist Party in agreement with the content of that agreement with Confebask? Because today we listen again to Mrs Castelo making a speech in the same line that is being maintained by the Department of Labour and Justice, which is a speech that if we did outside the context that surrounds it, of course, it is a speech that my group would agree with, but it is a speech that is contradictory to the practice of the Government, which is what we are constantly saying. And I am convinced that the Socialist Party, if it were not bound by that government agreement, would not swallow an agreement like this, for its content and for what it has assumed. We are alluded to again to the absent, I have already said it, to me it seems unacceptable when we are talking about the existing social dialogue table, re-burdening the blame or justifying that there are other unions that with their legitimate decisions have decided not to participate. And what about Workers' Commissions and UGT? If they were at that table, with their goodwill and knowing that, moreover, it could have a cost to them, and the Government has kicked them, therefore, do not be justified again in the absent. And self-criticism from the zero government. The Government does not consider whether it has any kind of responsibility in which there were not two of the country's main trade unions in advance, nor is it self-criticizing that the other two main trade unions in the country have been expelled from the table. Therefore, this situation seems to us serious, and to reverse that agreement, I do not know, to Mr Ruiz de Arbulo it seems to him that it would be a question – I do not know exactly what expression he has used – to us it seems absolutely necessary, because that agreement means – and yes, I will say it – it has kicked the unions that were participating in that table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u18	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u19	And they cannot be asked now to contribute on an agreement that is already signed. That is to make them play with the cards marked, because it is an agreement signed with the employer for the needs of the employer. And now they are told, come here and say something, and I repeat again: What if the unions say: "We totally oppose the agreement; it is an agreement with whose contents we do not agree at all, we must modify it in a powerful way". What is the government going to do? Are you going to tell the employer that this deal is no longer working, that you're going to withdraw it? I want you to take it out now and start from scratch. Yeah, starting from scratch...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u20	Please finish, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u21	That that's not ninging the existing table. Let it start from scratch, because the contents of that agreement have to start working with the government with trade unions and business agents. From scratch, from that tripartite formula that you praise. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u23	They say that a brilliant professor of economics, after finishing a master class, sees a student raise his hand and says, "Hey, in the real world things don't happen like you told us." And he says, "Yes, but it's that the real world is a particular case and we here don't study particular cases, we talk about science." And listening to you talk about relations between agents, about social dialogue, about labour relations... It gives me the impression that they come from a world of abstraction, which does not take into account what has happened in this country in recent years. It is here that we know each other's positions perfectly. You said, Mr Aiartza, that our proposal is coming to a halt. No, no. Who has remained, not in metaphorical terms, but in mathematical terms, who has reduced money to wages, who has reduced money to pensions and who has reduced money to public budgets is the attitude and policies of the right wing of this country, backed by the employers and supported by the governments of Rajoy and Urkullu. And the result is that he said before: Workers have lost purchasing power by means of wages, pensions and by way of lower public services. And that's what's going on. And it's just that we all know each other here and we know who did what to make that happen. And now the Government cannot take a position of false neutrality, because the Government has backed employers' policies in that direction. You asked yourself what labour relations are about and you have given us a fairly academic answer as well. If instead of you asking us Confebask what labor relations are, I would have answered like Bécquer: "labour relations are you", because it is Confebask, it is the CEO, it is the employer who has dictated the policies that determine labor relations, policies that allow him to have the skillet by the handle and put the collective bargaining up. That's what's going on. That's why I was saying that we can't talk about abstractions, but about realities. The reality is that, to this day, there are 27% agreements in force in this community, 20% are in decline, and 53% are in extension. And that's because the employer has the skillet for the handle and can decide when to renew an agreement and, if not, because there is no proactivity, the agreements will decline and if it doesn't interest you, don't renew it. And also, as a result of this policy, it is increasing its percentage of profit, while the wages of workers are falling. That's what's going on. That's no abstraction, that's a reality. And the government, instead of aligning itself with the weaker side, and instead of aligning itself with the interests of the majority, what it is doing is, one day yes and another too, applauding Confebask and Confebask applauding the government, because in the end they are developing the same policies. And he said, the clebrón of taxation in this country, is that it has been obvious what has happened. We have all attended for a year the fraud that has been done to this society, because Confebask has not allowed progressive taxation. It's just that it's on the table. The deterioration of purchasing power is objective data. The fact that labour relations have been imposed by legislation from Madrid, written to the CEO's dictate, is that this is something objective and what has happened with the employment agreement is that it is something objective. Look, you're not going to sign a strategic employment agreement and on the way you say, "There you go! The doughnuts!" "Here goes the unions; I've forgotten!". An employment agreement and I've forgotten the unions. It's just that that's not a protocol error. She also forgets the work counselor. "Here goes the unions and the work counselor." Sign the PNV with Confebask. That is the reflection of a mentality, of a mentality that does not match the role of trade unions and workers, and that thinks that in reality there is the PNV and Confebask. If Urkullu verbalized it a couple of years ago: "In reality we are only entrepreneurs and the PNV – or the Basque government, he said at the time –". And some unions are off the grid. It is that trade unions are not forgotten when someone is going to make an employment agreement, if they had a minimal awareness of the role of trade unions and the role of workers. And so, beyond the formal error on which apologies have been made, the problem of this issue is not in form, but is the background and mentality that is reflected in this attitude. Therefore, what we say to them: "put the counter to zero." And I know it's hard, because there are precedents and there's a loss of confidence that's very solid already. And, of course, if you are not only not able to convince the absent to go to that table, but to convince the present to continue, of course, the ballot that you have to lift is very complicated. Autn así, como decía anteriatorente, I believe a government has to make an effort to get along with the patricians, and to help corporations, and to promote corporations, because they are necessary, but then it has to do with an effort to influence the company in the whole society. We are of no use to an increase that impoverishes us. It's no use trying to do business well, but the profit that comes out of it won't be distributed properly. And the government has to be in that second part of it. It's not enough first. We can get poor on the first day of Porque, and the majority may be impoverished and impoverished, which is what is happening. And you, instead of accepting it, remain absorbed in an abstract discourse. Please start again, where the priority, the welfare of the people, and the welfare of the majority, and do things differently, I do not say that you are dependent on Confebask. Your daily practice shows that's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u25	We were asked by Mr Hernández that, in the face of conflicting interests, what needs to be done. In the face of conflicting interests, a Government must defend the rights of all citizens and seek public services, the redistribution of wealth, and that means that it must agree with all parties, being very clear what its objective is, right. That's the first thing. And that we take the heart out of social dialogue, and we think about continuing to take it out, but because we are convinced of it, and we will continue to strive. And it says, "The ballot they have is difficult," yes. But we have never been afraid of complicated issues. Others prefer, when things get complicated, and so they say, "I'd leave in minute one." Well, you never have to retire, either in minute 1, or in minute 21. Because dialogue, and in a complex situation like the one we are, is not easy, and you know it. And when someone asks us from here in the rostrum to reflect on the situation of costing agreements, just like someone else we should reflect on when he says so, because of what he has been talking about, or why there has been a weakening of collective bargaining, truth, and what has been the cause of the break in the balance between the parties, even so, some have doubts. Not the Socialists, of course. And we believe that its origin was very clear. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, should also have it, because that is called a modification of the Workers' Statute. And when you tell us that there is a need for a change of attitude, for it is true, there is a need for a change of attitude, but a change of attitude in the Government of Spain. A change of attitude that is already late, too late, to rebalance and change the current situation, and to re-empower trade unions to be able to represent workers' rights. Because that economic recovery that you tell me, you know perfectly well that we have the redistribution part. Therefore, when someone tells us that alongside whom we stand, we have it very clear; the agreement that has to be reached has to be an agreement that benefits the workers, and what they seek or the objective of the agreement signed, at least in its objective, is precisely to connect those job needs that the companies are going to have, with the people who are in unemployment. And I already know why you don't go in, "and we better start from scratch, the deal is rejected," and you don't go into concrete content. Because I'm going to read you a paragraph, see if you agree or disagree, or believe you That some union headquarters would disagree with this. It says the agreement, in one of its sections: "Incentivize and promote the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite ones, as well as develop measures aimed at promoting the reduction of the rates of temporaryity and unintended partiality in Basque enterprises, measures for the development of equality plans in Basque enterprises and for the incorporation of women in the sectors where they are underrepresented". Well, there will be parts of the agreement, there will be parts of the agreement, and that is why you want to take it to the social dialogue table, because once you recognize the error, what you cannot ask is flogging. Nor can you think that the recovery of trust is done through the delivery of a finiquito. Normally, when a company gives you a little finish, that's also very clear, right, there's no longer a chance of trust anymore. We must therefore try not to end any issue at all, but to try to try to recover the dialogue. And it is likely that when it is offered, and once a mistake is acknowledged, no one is going to flog, there is simply a way to go, and the way that has been offered to go is that this agreement is taken to the social dialogue table, where the unions have to be who say "there is a cost to them". Look, I don't know if there's going to be a cost to the unions involved. What I know is that they are the ones who have to agree and they are the ones who represent the workers and, therefore, they have to make every effort, as the government has to do and they have to do the trade union centres. Because this is not cost-effective, it is going to bring benefits, benefits for those we represent, us in Parliament and them in collective bargaining, where they are the main actors. I therefore believe that the Government does what it has to do when it is an employer, and that is demonstrated when it negotiates in public service, when wage increases are made, when contributions to pension schemes are recovered, when public job offers are called, say what the private sector employer says. Therefore, it is true that some over-action is sometimes on this issue, and when we do not go into details, because there are details that are positive and others that could possibly be improved, modified, driven and controlled in their execution. But for that it is true that what is to be desired is, as I say, not to end up, but to regain confidence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u27	Mr. Casanova, there are times, there are places, there are situations in which jokes do not bring. And some metaphors, too. You have systematically brought us a metaphor that is that of the trainer, insists with the metaphor. Now you have a new adept who is Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo. I don't like it, I don't like the metaphor of the trainer and I don't like it. Why? Not because it represents rowing together, but because you pose that metaphor with a war on the helm, and labor relations should not be that, and they are not that, from my point of view. Social dialogue should not be that, and it is not that. Which I'd say, "Man, you do whatever you want, keep on with the trainer." He said the ones that add up and the ones that subtract. I'd rather add, do, even making some mistake, because the one who does it can make some mistake, I'd rather not do that, than go. And that is self-criticism, Mr Hernández, and that is self-criticism, when in addition something is recognized, a mistake is recognized. Mr. Casanova told us the world of abstraction. We or many live, you live in the world of abstraction and it is we who touch the street and touch reality. I don't think I live in the world of abstraction, I live, I believe, more or less in a world like you, with other visions perhaps, but I don't think I live in the world of abstraction. And those who don't live in abstraction are 100,000 people, those who don't live in the world of abstraction are 100,000 people who have opportunities with tools like this. Those don't live in the world of abstraction, for nothing. Balance, balance, neutrality, alignment. See, in labor relations, there is such interaction and there is an interaction of rights, there are rights, there are obligations, there are powers. That is obvious, there are powers and each one legitimately poses his or her positions and the position of the Government is one and it is clear, and I have already explained it to him, I have explained it, it is very clear, it is to govern, to mark public policies, to mark public employment policies, that is. That is the position of the Government. That is the balance of the Government and that is what it is doing. If what we are talking about is the rudder, not the rudder of labour relations, the rudder of public policy, don't have the slightest doubt what it is doing. To finish, I'd like to... Well, I would also ask for some question about, you know, forms, contents... Man, there are ways we can also come to agreements in some ways. Mr Hernandez, expel, if you look at the definition of expelling is not to leave, to rise and to leave, that is not to expel. Expulsion is something else. Get up and go, I get up and go somewhere, it has to do with my will. Expulsion is something else. I think there's also that kind of images that constantly bring us, expel, anti-union politics, dark rooms... Man, man, we could start there, too. That counter to zero we could also start putting it from there. The counselor told us that she does not fail the social dialogue. There is social dialogue but there can be better social dialogue, and it does not fail to materialize the social dialogue that is the table. Neither do I, counselor. I bet, along with the lehendakari, you would advise, for that ever-widening exercise of social dialogue, for that exercise of that quality social dialogue. Me, too, I bet for that too. And you trusted to overcome the difficulties, you trusted to overcome the difficulties, and you said, "We will overcome these difficulties," and you said, "Believe me." I believe you, counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Finally, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Hair tomato, Mr. Hernandez. That is the term I have used to define your request for the annulment of that agreement. Harnessing of the hair not logically to the members of the House, not at all; it is a harbinger of the hair to all the workers and to all the companies. That's my point of view and I'll explain why. It is a mess because you have come up here again in the second round to insist that this agreement must be annulled because trade unions have been kicked and those are not the forms, and that that has to improve, and that that has to change and that therefore, as a sign of goodwill, the agreement must be annulled. Look, look, that agreement is for people who don't have a job to find it, and for people who do have a job to improve their training conditions to improve in that job. Then, that ship must be mounted to add, not to subtract; the ship must not be sunk directly because some have not wanted or could not be in that agreement. It's that simple. I believe that we are back to the first part of the debate. You are confusing the interests of the unions as such, their own interests, above the interests of the workers; just as Mr. Casanova said that if you don't join the Labour Counsellor, because it's not in the agreement, but it's the Employment one, we said at the beginning of the legislature that we understood – and I think you said so too – that employment and work had to be together. Well, that's a decision of the lehendakari, decided to divide the powers between the two. The important thing is not that she is the Labour Counsellor or that she is the Employment Adviser; the important thing is that she is the Government and that the Government works together in a certain direction. That is what I think is really important, not who is leading it, considering that they are from political groups, or designated by different political groups. The important thing is that the Government is there and that the agreements can be implemented and that this agreement can be implemented. And in the execution of that agreement is where all the social partners will have to be, there will have to be workers' representatives. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Hernández's motion in Hidalgo. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 46; white, 0; abstain, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u31	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 46; white, 0; abstaines, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u32	So it's not accepted. Finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the whole corrections of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 28; white, 0; Abstations 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u33	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the equivalent of the parlamental team for the recovery of 2017-20 of the World Extras. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the proposed team, the lady of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u34	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, good day to you all. 2017-2020. The chairman of the Beatriz Artolaz on February 23rd. He explained that this report of the 2014-2016 Plan Plan for employment creation and support, and in order to respond to the recent challenges of the Basque Society, is answerable to the need of development of the strategic and quantum measures of development. For as it appears in the notice of the evaluation of Plan 2014-2016, the need for a market where there is more quality. To do this we must reduce provisionalness and partial performances, and protect the relations of works based on agreement and co-worker. And for this purpose he ought to combine new plans from the strategic and quantum point of view, and, on the other hand, the exact measures in the field of employment which will enable him to advance in three respects: A trade that allows more employment, better employment, and all persons. It was clear, therefore, that the course was given, and not by us, because the evaluation of the previous plan has been recorded. It's just that this harvesting job isn't in the light on that new planetal Plant that's been introduced to us. As far as the strategic field of the Bureau is concerned, it is said that our society is involved in the complex and changing economy of society. I think that we have discussed this very much lately, and that it is essential to make a thorough acquaintance and analysis of it in order to make decisions in public policies in the field of employment. This is recorded in the report, too. Where we shall go in this way to define what we can find in these new scenes, and to examine the future hypotheses and projections, and to open the means which are based on them, is essential. On the same strategy we are referred to some very important factors and data which have a decisive influence on our context, as far as the predicting of jobs is concerned, with the predictive and definite changes of economic sectors, about the pure change of professions, and important indications belonging to their jobs and their situation in the genus. It's obvious what kind of work is to be produced in the next few years, and from that you can see how it can be. This also gives us some clear information about the formation we will need. It is clear that in the next few years there is an opportunity to represent a lot of jobs in this country, some of which are said to be 100,000, others say that it's only 300,000. Some. In any case, it is clear there will be many. We have, therefore, enough elements to create these future hypotheses, where we want to define them, to identify them clearly, and to bring together all the information we have for the future hypothesis. And this harvesting was a work to be done at the Operating Plant, here is one of the most effective means of arriving at high-quality jobs and ending with the Precerat. But in this sense the plan which has been presented to us has some important defect and weakness. We do not see that this future information in your hands has been used to neutralize all these elements, and to open new ways of the future, change the direction, and make use of opportunity. In strategy, for example, we do not see clearly what is the precise plan of this government, which is to be given in the community, in a ordered manner, and in order to do the exercise of quality. And we already reminded him at the appearance to Mrs. Artolazabal who said Seneca that no There's a favorable wind for the boat that doesn't know where it's going. Of course, the government later made it clear that the ship was in the hands of Confebask, in that galley that Mr. Casanova told us. All these strategic areas of employment, all those relating to young people, the gaps, all the inequalities that are now taking place in the labour market, remain in Confebask's hands and that seems to us to be quite important and worrying. On the other hand, in the object of creating employment, it seems to us to be a plan of very little ambition, unless, in the development of the economy, at the expense of the market, and in the demographics, accidental changes occur. And besides marking very conservative targets, there is no connection between a job that wants to be kept and kept around the quality of that job. For example, it is said that 45,000 jobs are intended to be produced, but it is not said what kind of jobs are meant to be produced. Or 20,000 young people want to work, but they don't say in what condition they're willing to put up with what duration they're going to offer. In these respects, they will show an extra dimension of employment, which ought to be the direction of the new employment policies, because there are difficulties in their development, is there not? In words, you can see one desire to recognize these quantum dimensions, but then few innovations can be seen in this concretion very little new. Because I'd like to know what this new item of plan is just about to introduce to us, because we haven't found it. And we see, indeed, that those parts which ought to be the most potent, which are connected with the quality of employment, and which have been obtained with the improvement of the employment system, are precisely the parts of this plan of want and weakness. This is paradox, and is equally disturbing. Lastly, in this way of obtaining a trade, which allows all men to do, the same plan makes the least possible employments, not to bring true chances for the present, but also to the few who are left behind, among the weakest that are to be surpassed. It is certain that these dangers and weaknesses do not afterwards conform to the strategic ends, and that the planning which is made even in the case of the various activities which are defined is founded on a strategy which has already been established that it is not actually effective. All of them in the same bag, the persons who are very different in need of being in the same sack, supposes many and many of them to stand behind it, and if they do not correct it, it would remain behind. It is also worth a special quotation not to be identified as weakness by women, and then the plan takes place in general terms of equality between men and women. In this sense it must be said that, though not recorded in the employment strategy, the chief body of the Artola wide range had remarked the necessity of ending it with the cracks of a genus, yet this was not contained in the plan. It has been added later that something has been added with the initiative of this legislature, because, as to the grafting of the genus view, the plan has a remarkable blankness. And on the other hand, of course, we said at first that the necessity of working for a market where there is more quality; and that is the necessity of protecting the relations of the agreement and co-workers. That's just what's been said about the plan. And I think Mr. Casanova has also talked about it at the very first point before: but we have spoken of the necessity of protecting the work, and we know how it is at the previous point, and we know how it is. When the plan was introduced, we were strongly criticized for having built this employment strategy on the back of the unional majority of this people, and we criticized it, too, not to give the extreme importance to the state of business relations, in the absence of the majority of this people's conversation and in the state of locking conversation. The things that have followed have been very clear to us, that this vast part of the part mentioned in the document has not been given in the construction of this strategy. That this division and that continent have not been cultivated, and that, in fact, all the chances of participation and consensuation have been dynamited by the Government recently signed by the Confebask. And this, verily, puts all the guarantees of being able to carry a permanent strategy forward, participation and consensual, if there are elements in which a permanent strategy can be carried forward; the participation, the consensus, the dialogue, and the leadership, is one of those other clabe elements of which the public, the strategy, the strategy, the strategy, the strategy of such a strategy should be carried forward. So we are faced with a plan, and, in short, with an interesting concept of position. This plan receives a certain approval of the necessity of changing, but we are confronted by a strategy which offers us too much of the eternal practice, and which offers us but little innovations. The point is that we have already repeated many times that we cannot continue to do the usual. The evolution of employment and the labour market place us in a new reality, which conditions the projects of life and happiness of Basques and Basques. The economy is recovering, but our society is being ritualized. The economy recovers, while phenomena such as the precariousness of installing in our lives. And we need to change the course of this situation and that's a lot of importance to this planet of the Eplea Plant that we're talking about here. If this be so, and it is thought to be urgent to do this harvesting of all these elements which we have spoken of, we directed the direction of the strategy, and presented this initiative which we have here brought to the discussion. As a matter of fact, it occurred to us at first to cancel the strategy, or so we thought. But, considering the importance of the subject in the life of men, and this slow and complicated procedure, which, if such a demand should be advanced, would certainly be supposed to proceed. a strategy that would be effective led us to the front. And that's why we've decided, in a way, to ask for this strategy and to complete it. And so, we'd be asking if you'd like to. Let 2017-20 to build up the Plant Extras, to reach the highest object of quality employment, and to anticipate future inclinations and scenarios, and to make two main foundations of the new strategy. And we required that certain parts of this strategy should be strengthened and completed, whether of prosparation or of the genus view. The truth is that we were very pleased to note that not only Elkarrekin We can share this approach, but also that the groups that support the Government, probably for other reasons, were in addition to the need to put the magnifying glass on a number of very concrete elements, on which it should be turned. And there surely we will have very different perspectives on why each puts the magnifying glass where it puts it. But, somehow, it does seem that there was an agreement, that there is an agreement on where this employment strategy should be developed, and I think that is no small thing. I did think about it when I read the amendment from the groups supporting the Government, which somehow came to recognize those absences or, as Mr Aiartza told us the other day, those points of improvement that the strategy could have. And the truth is that I found it very interesting that, coming out of that usual formula that the Government continues to do what it is doing, that magnifying glass, that magnifying glass that I thought was very interesting and that also allowed, or I intuited or thought I could allow us to reach an agreement in this regard. And bearing in mind that, since the presentation of the strategy, there has been a milestone of great importance, and that, as we said earlier, it can stagger everything that has been raised in this strategy, such as the Confebask agreement and the break-up of the dialogue table, because we are very pleased with the agreement that has been reached today, which we have reached today. I think we've all given in. We have also understood that perhaps the most practical and effective thing could be that those complementing needs that we observed in the strategy could be developed, as suggested by the groups of the Government, through the annual plans; that there is also a commitment that those annual plans should be presented annually and the evaluations should be presented annually; and it seemed to us very interesting that, in addition, we could coincide with those elements on which the strategy had to revolve. And we also found it interesting that in those elements on which the strategy had to revolve we had achieved a very broad consensus because, in some way, it also offers some guarantee that the vision is shared and that that strategy will have greater prospects of moving forward. But, above all, the initiative we were discussing today also seeks, in the context in which we are discussing, to recover that public leadership that must have employment policies, because these employment policies are the key tools that a Government has to address the good living and happiness of the members of a society, and we understand that this cannot be left in the hands of others. Por lo drop, because I'm grateful to the will that's been to the agreement. I think that we have tried it easily, because every one of us, by leaving things in the way, seems to me to be a very competent arrangement to-day, especially in looking at the future, and looking at those challenges which this people has, puts us in a common way, because it puts us about some elements, which, in the eyes of the people, is always very interesting. So to thank all the teams, especially for the attempt on Mrs. Argrei and simply to thank the chief physician because I know he's taken part in this agreement. And to congratulate all of you on the agreement that you made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u36	Good morning again. From our coalition, the truth is that, when we saw the original initiative, we saw it with good eyes, because it pointed out some of the issues that different groups, including our own, criticized when the Employment Plan was presented in Parliament. And, therefore, because it seems to us to be a timely initiative, because beyond the fact that the opposition groups, in this case, of course, our parliamentary group, have had a critical position with the Employment Plan, and so we also told the counsellor at the hearing, that we have a critical position, but also a constructive position, because the criticism can be perfectly hard and perfectly constructive at the same time. And that is why we, since we made our own considerations, which I believe were not generally very pleased with, the counsellor, but which to a large extent were also reflected in the initiative presented by EH Bildu and which we took the opportunity, above all to make an amendment to the whole, not so much to amend the plan to the original initiative, but to include the elements that we lacked from those that we put forward on that occasion, and then to reach the possible agreements and to include the maximum elements that we had talked about when the Employment Plan was presented. We think that the transaction to which it has been arrived is a pragmatic transaction, it is a transaction that you seek, logically, to come forward and to be agreed and that, therefore, it can affect the direction and rectification of how the Employment Plan will have to be implemented, in this case, through the concrete annual plans. And well, we, for this seems to us positive, because, I repeat, we have a critical position with the Employment Plan, but a constructive position, then, in everything we can influence, of course, we will do it and we will not stay out. I will point out the elements that are important to my group, both of what is agreed today, and some elements that are not collected and that are part of the position that we have maintained since we started to express our opinion on the employment plan. As important elements, of course, the role that we believe should be given to Lanbide, we also said in Mrs Artolazabal's appearance, we believe that today's transaction is also going in that direction, although we are concerned that this is going to create a contradiction with something that is happening at the moment, which is how the Government proposes the reform of Lanbide, which at the moment is causing a general rejection of all trade unions. Let us return a little to the same thing and to the debate before us. We think that this is included in this transaction today, also in order to be coherent, because it will need an extra effort from the government in the work that it has to do also with the unions in view of the reform of Lanbide and that we think that it is not being done in a timely way, the proof is that today all the unions are on strike, I do not know whether the absent or the present or not, but all the unions are on strike today. In Lanbide, they are on strike on this issue. Another important element of the compromise is that it contains elements which are intended to improve the employment plan in some of the objectives that we are told it has, and that we tend to say that it has them on paper but that we do not see them in practice or that we find them insufficient in practice or as you wish, which are those which have to do with the quality of employment, beyond the headings to which I usually refer. And, in particular, an element which is very important to us and which is fundamental and which has been essential for us to sign the transaction, which is that we should talk about monitoring and monitoring, because it seems to us that one of the main shortcomings that we find, not only in this employment plan but in general, and not only with this Government, but in general, with public employment policies, is that the results of these employment policies actually result in quality jobs and that there is quality in employment. Another element, of course, is that it reflects what has to do with the sectors, and with the sectors of particular vulnerability, and what has to do with the feminized sectors. We believe that this is well-received, we believe that it was not or is not in the employment plan, and we believe that this transactional initiative is well-received, and I believe that this can be implemented in a much better way than if this transaction had not been approved. We have therefore signed the compromise, we are going to vote on it, we are doing it by maintaining our critical position with what it has been or with what the employment plan is, but we believe that with this constructive position, as I said, which is perfectly consistent with that criticism of the employment plan, we believe that we are contributing to a better direction for the policies that the Government wants to implement. Yeah, yeah, I don't know, Mrs. Castelo laughs, I don't know exactly why, then she'll probably explain it to me. I believe that it is perfectly compatible to be critical of the employment plan, to have said what we do not like about the employment plan, and then to come to this House to focus on the issues that that employment plan will then develop. The opposite would be to say that, as the employment plan does not like us, we are closing down in a band and we are not going to talk about employment issues anymore until another employment plan is presented. Don't you? I don't know if you guys are laughing because you might prefer us to have that position. If I get very critical they accuse me of overacting, if I get pragmatic they accuse me of something else, I don't know. I don't know, you guys don't care what we say, whatever it is, it seems to be. Anyway, well, I'm going to tell you, because I said I'm going to indicate also the things that we think are also missing and that could have been. Measures aimed at the sharing of employment. It seems to us that this is one of the issues that are not covered in the employment plans and in the employment plan, and that we think, we think, that they are necessary and that we think that they must be among the true objectives of employment policies, the sharing of employment. And to us this, because we also miss it, finally, in the transaction, all that has to do with the objectives being also to rationalize the days, etc., that goes beyond the fulfillment of legality. When we speak in our 35-hour amendment as an objective in employment policies, it is because we believe that a government can consider in its employment plan objective that in the private sector companies apply 35-hour days, it is an objective like any other, but it is an objective that we explain because we think that this division of labour can be guaranteed through this type of measures, which are also a historical claim, no longer only of the unions but of the left in general. Therefore, we came here today a little to reinforce the approaches that we are doing in what we believe must be the objectives of employment policies, which is that the results of these policies do not just have to do with creating jobs, which do not just have to do, as I have said on many occasions too, with lowering the unemployment rate to 10% or the percentage proposed by the Government, which is 10%, but which has to do primarily with quality in employment and, therefore, all that we can do to enable those employment policies to do what they are saying under the headings that they want to do, that jobs are of quality and that employment policy affects the quality of jobs, we are going to do it. And when we have raised some questions about quality in employment or what we think needs to be done to improve quality in employment from public employment policies, we have often been told, and we were also told when the Employment Plan was presented, we were referred to the Labour Inspectorate and referred to the Department of Labour and Justice. And I want to say, once again, that the subject of quality in employment should not be referred only to the Department of Labour and Justice and to the Labour Inspectorate, it is a matter of the Department of Employment at this time too, because with the current legality the employment can be absolutely precarious, as we are seeing. There are thousands of jobs right now that strictly comply with legality, strictly with legality and are precarious jobs. And, therefore, it seems to us that the fundamental element is that employment policies that promote and encourage employment do not allow jobs that are promoted or promoted by these policies to have these characteristics, that being legal they are precarious jobs and that do not have quality. That is the leitmotiv of our group with employment policies and that is why, it is true, we believe, and we said it also in its day, that it has been a mistake to separate in two departments employment and work, it has been said before in the previous debate. We too are happy, we think it is a positive agreement, that this does not rectify the critical positions that the opposition groups may have on employment plans, and we believe that it will improve the government's employment policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u37	Finish up, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u38	Therefore, that is the position by which we support this transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u40	Mr. Hernandez, you made me nervous, I had just smiled. Maybe they're not used to him smiling in the House. But you said you're going to influence and you're not going to stay out, and I say, hey, it's just that it seems great to me, to see if it's true that that's the direction that Elkarrekin We can start to take in this House already, to want to influence and not to want to stay out. We are debating on this second point, as you have quite rightly said, a non-legislative proposal which concerns the Strategic Employment Plan. Part of the proposer's justification for the evaluation of the 2014-2016 Employment Plan, which identifies the need to provide a labour market that offers higher quality employment, is why the strategic plan – the proposer says – should combine on the one hand a strategic point of view, which calls it qualitative, and on the other hand, concrete measures in the field of employment. But we believe that this is precisely what the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, which was presented two months ago by the government, responds to. It is a plan that with respect to the previous one, and specifically mentions it, introduces as the main novelty the incorporation of objectives linked to the improvement of the quality of employment and to the improvement of Lanbide, in order to complement the objectives of job creation or of more employment, truth, which was what had focused the previous plan in a different economic situation. And all this, logically, to respond to this new context in which the Basque market finds itself with more favourable prospects for job creation, and which were not questioned by any group in the committee in which it presented the plan. It is the plan itself that states that the incorporation of these objectives, linked to the quality of employment, to the improvement of the quality of employment, responds to the detection of these risks of temporality and unintended partiality, and to the need to create real opportunities for those people who have the greatest difficulties of integration, in order to really create real opportunities for these people, and therefore it must be focused on a series of incentives to place these groups in conditions more favourable to their access to the market. The proposer acknowledges this strategic plan – you say this in your broad justification of your non-legislative proposal – an interesting conceptual location, as you say. But it goes on to question the setting of objectives, sometimes because they are concrete, sometimes because they are generic, or to look for what they think is clear that there are no areas of operation linked to strategic objectives mentioned, or to the lack of more appropriate measures to deal with the future. Measures that you summarize in your proposed part in the following: use of prospective work, measures of monitoring and control of the actions, gender vision, differentiation of actions for groups with greater difficulties of employment insertion or Lanbide as an application tool. And to undertake this initiative I recommended a comment that had made to us not long ago in a plenary Mr Aiartza, right, on that subject of the rereading of the strategic plan, but now from a point of view as equally more critical and more revisionist with the approach you made in that proposal. And I have done that exercise, and the truth is that the conclusion I have come to is that the plan covers each and every one of the issues raised in the initiative, in a more concrete, less concrete way, but all of them. As a novelty no one is incorporated and I will degregate you briefly what is the journey I have made. In the first of the points, forward-looking work, I am faced with operational area 9.2, which states that progress in the concept of anticipation is essential in order to be able to design and plan the appropriate responses to the changes and needs that occur in the labour market. It says: "Observation and foresight are basic elements for this, so it is proposed as an action measure the consolidation of Future Lan as an integrated information and prospecting system, that develops methodologies to identify trends, opportunities and needs of the labour market, thus providing early information on the imbalances that can occur between the respondent and the existing." Therefore, prospective work, the plan already contemplates it. Secondly, you are talking about control measures, field 9.3, which sets out what is called advanced public management, with improved systems of evaluation of all services, of all programmes, in order to improve efficiency and efficiency and to identify risk or success factors and thus to be able to redesign policies, programmes or actions. Therefore, the plan incorporates it. Third, gender vision. This was a matter of debate in the committee. There is a cross-cutting area, we talk about the cross-cutting nature of equality measures, in order to incorporate this gender perspective into the package of measures of the plan, both in the diagnosis of needs, in the definition and planning of measures, as well as in monitoring and evaluation. Therefore, the plan includes it. It will then be possible, as I say, to establish more or less, but the direction they want to mark us, that different direction, for the moment I have not found it. Fourth, differentiation of actions for groups with greater difficulties. Areas 3.1 to 3.9 for the youth employment group, which goes from the educational transition, that go through the theme of support to entrepreneurship, young talent, training... I'm not going to explain them all, because we've all had a chance to read the strategic plan a couple of times. And then we have the scope 5 that goes for other types of collectives, right, for work activation, for groups of special vulnerability, and there we talk about long-term unemployed, we talk about over 45 years of age, we talk about people with disabilities, among other collectives, who also appear and collect 15 measures for these differentiated collectives as well, they do not all go in the same lines of action. Therefore, the plan also collects it. Fifthly, we are talking about Lanbide as an effective tool, and then we are going to field 9.1, improvement of the current public employment system in order to obtain an operational instrument of Basque employment policy that offers services more oriented to the needs of people and businesses, with a design of the model of care, intervention and orientation from a networked work. Therefore, this is already included in the Plan. Can it be improved? Well, yeah, like everything in life. Everything is always improveable, there is always room for improvement, but we cannot say that nothing proposed is not at the basis of this Plan. Therefore, it is difficult, when you tell me that the ship knows where it is going, you know it perfectly, that is, I understand your work that you have to do, no, and in that opposition work you have to establish elements of criticism, well. And it is true, it can be improved, for of course, there is always scope for improvement, but you know perfectly well that with the proposal today what we are doing is going in the same direction, in the same direction that already marks the Strategic Plan, because do not forget that this is the case, the Basque Employment Strategy also, agreed, true, with the social actors. This is what I am telling you that the direction we are going to take is the same and that the new, new, there are no new, but we can go to concrete or certain major indicators or so, in what has made it possible for the different groups, as you very well said, to reach a majority agreement if it is not unanimous. For what? For to urge the government – you have said this – that in the annual plans to develop this Strategic Plan, as certain actions are detailed that are already at the basis of the Plan, but that we believe that they can have an added virtuality and that, in addition to those actions that we are currently setting as priorities to the government, and that they have collected as strategic axes, they raise an issue that is important today in the development of public policies, and more in the employment ones. It is that they involve the consensus of almost the entire parliamentary arc of this House, therefore, to place Lanbide's prospective work as the main tool, to establish objectives on the quality of employment, to develop lines of support and incentive to, in line with what these prospective studies tell us, to add control and monitoring measures, to define gender-differentiated objectives, or to define strategies and objectives for each group, as well as to evaluate their results, we believe that it is something – as I say – in the direction of what is marked, true, according to everyone, and in an action plan in which the strategy, which starts from a agreed origin, can continue to develop. Therefore, I too will show my satisfaction here, the satisfaction of the Socialists in reaching such a broad agreement on such an important policy, and we say this because, and in the committee it was also said, employment is the first concern of the citizens, and welcome, indeed, that we should devote ourselves to this and not to other things. politics, wanting to start wetting and not staying out. Therefore, to welcome the agreement reached in which, as everyone knows, when one wants to reach an agreement, Mr Hernández, one must always leave starting positions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u42	Yes, ma'am, thank you, chief of Parliaments, members of the legislature, all good days. We've got another question about 2017-20 Maple Plan Extras. The plan has but little ambition in view, that the eternal planning is made, that there is nothing new, the conservative aim, as has been said to-day, and that, in fact, my head is in the mouth of an eucalyptic phrase, "the fool comes to the crow with a black ass." These arguments are eternal, always using oppositions to criticize the roles of fun. The chief physician of the artillery department explained to us the circumstances of the planet's plan at the committee, as has been said here, which we wish to bring here today. The approximation with the Extra Plan is specified more target and guidelines set in the 2020 Employment Strategy EEEEE. The Diagnostic received EE is still valid in the Basque Office as well as in the field of analysis and processing. These weaknesses, which must be given a necessary answer to the diagnosis, are perceived; the low rate of activity, the high stability of time, and the provisional employment, the lack of faction, the unemployment of young people, the chronification of long and long-term unemployment, the state of people who have disabilities, the assistance of the profession to work on personal services, and service for corporations, as a matter of quantity and quality for the defence of constant learning... It is based on a thorough diagnosis of the real situation we have in the workplace and it is visible the groups that are going through the worst, – as can be people with disabilities, young people, long and very long unemployed. duration...–, to give them an ad hoc and effective response, based on their uniqueness or characteristics as a collective, and also in different sections as explained by Mrs Castelo. The fourth and fifth points of the primary initiative of the event are in this line, and the same plan has precise measures for turning this situation around. The diagnosis is accompanied by a work of prospecting that allows us to obtain the following data among which we distinguish three categories: clear opportunities, as can be those generated by generational relief; elements of doubt, as can be the rhythm of economic growth; and some elements of danger or threat, among which we highlight the demographic deficit and ageing of the population, which Mrs Kortajarena has also mentioned. The chief physician clearly stated that this plan was published after a profound diagnosis and projection, and that it had been shared and agreed with different agents, as Mrs. Castelo said here. At the first point of the legal proposal, the idea of proscription is undertaken. The 41 strategic guidelines are structured into six axes: activation, skills and competences, generation of opportunities, equal opportunities, quality employment, and effective and efficient Basque employment system. In addition, it establishes five principles fully aligned with the Basque employment strategy: equity, efficiency, territorial balance, participation and consensus, and transparency. The strategy must perform the following tasks: In reference to the mass of society, bring the most suitable field for the development of production system, and enables the encounter of social and economics around common targets and policy for the action of politics, of society, of industry, education, and of company. Compared to the previous 2014-2010-Epleugue Plan, Mrs. d'Artalge, also mentioned by Mrs. d'A. d'A. The quality of the employment that is generated is a constant concern and occupation, both of the Government and of the groups in this House and of the agents related to employment. The GNP affects this aspect, which is taken into account in the plan. The Basque Government has promoted various initiatives aimed at improving the quality of employment, e.g. by prioritising the continuity of the young person hired under the Lehen Aukera programme in the company, or by encouraging the indefinite recruitment of young people for relay contracts. These are some concrete examples, since they are often accused of not being concrete. In order to improve the quality of the Euskal job service, I'd like to have my suggestion announced in the parliament and we'll have a chance to discuss it for next few weeks and we'll have it. Professional managers are working badly in order to improve management and repair service. This is demanded at the seventh point of the initiative, although we know that the procedure is in progress. The key objectives of the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020 are as follows, as already outlined by the Counsellor and which I will only mention: promoting quality employment, promoting job integration through local and regional plans, promoting training, deepening education so that it is more connected with the needs of the company, facilitating entrepreneurship, building employment generation capacity from sustainable tourism, consolidating local trade and modernising the primary sector, developing the social economy and the public sector, reviving the Renove programme linked to the rehabilitation of housing and public equipment, ensuring and generating the necessary provisions and conditions to improve the quality of employment, and improving Lanbide's value contribution as the main instrument of Basque employment policy. The layout, containing an application monitoring and a tracking system. This will give us a chance to know the development of the planned ends and the results, and to know the great achievements that have been achieved. Monitoring, tracking, and evaluation are performed by indicators. There are three sorts of indicators: the indicators associated with the context, associated with the activity, and related to the impact. It is a recurring question of the need to establish indicators in order to be able to carry out the corresponding assessments of the plans that the Basque Government assumes and envisages, and it also seems appropriate to us. As explained above, it is clear that the majority, if not all the points requested by Bildu on his initiative and also some of those included in his amendment to the whole are already covered in the strategic plan, although the proposers are insufficient, vague, lacking in concrete terms. We believe, and it seems important to us, that it is true that we are rowing in the same direction. We believe that the starting positions are close, that we must also be effective ourselves and that the Strategic Employment Plan continues to develop all the actions envisaged in it. In our view, and it has also been explained here, including aspects such as those proposed by Bildu and Podemos in the Strategic Plan, would achieve just the opposite effect of what Mrs Kortajarena wanted with her original initiative, which could be the paralysis and slowing down and could also be to the detriment of people, of citizenship. Since we have no problem in specifying and influencing and improving the aspects requested by both Bildu and Podemos, we are ready to collect them in the annual plans, annual plans that will develop the Strategic Plan and which the Government has also committed to submit annually, as well as the assessment and results that will be derived from them, also on an annual basis. Therefore, we will have the opportunity to examine them and see which way and where, if that were to happen, we can focus on further improvement. This, however, has not been difficult to reach a middle course, where the ideas of all are united, because we have the same end: We ask you to create a job, a job of quality, and then, in the year's jobs, start the exact measurements, and you can settle them. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. It's your call, Mr Ruiz de Abulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. When Mrs Artolazabal presented us with the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, from the group we made small criticisms, we were not overly critical in her presentation, because we understood that it was a plan, I remember I told her that it was unambitious, simply, and that it was improveable. That it had very broad, too general general policies, which made little concrete and that, above all, the objectives that were being pursued seemed to us to be unambitious, because we understood that the Government had the capacity to lower that rate below 10%, that unemployment rate well below 10%, and that the number of members of social security increased considerably. That is why when Mrs Kortajarena told us that she was going to present this initiative, and then we could see it and study it, because we shared that, in fact, this plan was completed in some way, in order to be able to put measurable indicators, to be seen, seeing throughout the implementation of the praxis of it, whether it was actually working, or not working, or what had to be corrected. In other words, it was a collaborative effort with the Government, not an exclusively opposition effort. We told him that if the economy continued as it was growing at the time, a few months ago, two months ago, I think it was, or three months, two and a half months, when you presented this plan to us, because the simple inertia of replacing the workers who went to retirement status by young people who joined the jobs, by that we were simply going to be able to maintain or achieve that goal of reducing unemployment below 10%, that if we also managed to get the young people out less to train and study outside, or to do so only when they actually wanted to train and learn languages outside our community and not if they had to go for lack of work, because then we had everything we had done and asked for more. And I believe that with this initiative this is achieved, if we are able to focus those concrete policies which must be the very information provided by the Lanbide Government on young people, on people with little or no training, on women's unemployment and on the long-term unemployed, because we have achieved the objective not only of lowering the unemployment rate, but also of greatly improving the quality of employment, because it is precisely those groups that are engaged in the most precarious jobs. I always say that the best way to combat job insecurity is to create jobs. In the end the worker will be able to choose where he wants to work and those who hire, the employers, will have to improve the working conditions a lot, precisely in order to make their jobs attractive to those who are demanding employment. That is why I find it very interesting and very positive, and I think that, after the previous debate, I see that all the groups are going to support the same initiative, the joint text, indeed, where everyone has left some of their claims in order to be able to reach an agreement, because it is an example of what would have to happen in the socio-occupational field as we mentioned at the beginning of this morning's plenary session. The challenge you have, Mrs Artolazabal, the instrument is Lanbide. He has told us that he is going to reform Lanbide, just to achieve this goal he needs something more than a little bit of a revision of sheet and paint, just like he needs to disassemble the whole engine, reassemble it or adjust it to render it to the maximum of the necessary power. And on that path, and Mrs Garrido, my partner in these matters, has repeated, she will always find us to help and collaborate as much as possible for the improvement of conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, Madame of Kottaja, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u46	Yes, ma'am, members of the legislature, chief officer of the Artola generouss, I am now. For I too, Mrs Castelo, understand perfectly what role you have here, and I also understand perfectly that from that role that each one of you has, the readings that can be done as today of the strategies that we have in our hands can be different, I can also understand it. I have not said at any time that the strategy does not include measures, I have not said so, in fact it does because if not, I do not know what kind of strategy it is intended to be. It would be absurd for you to come here with something, which would not be the first time either, to make absolutely nothing concrete. I simply say that with regard to that approach, which is to overcome that framework of the 2014-2016 Strategic Plan, which was to create employment and sustain employment and to overcome that dimension and to address another new dimension, which is that of quality employment, in addition to those situations of caring for and protecting labour relations and of responding, let us say, to the trends that the market has for the coming years in this town, because I thought that in some cases very general things were raised. You have read us a number of points in that plan which are also general and which are not concrete in any particular way, which give us no clues as to the orientations they may have. And all that also happens in a very concrete context, and it is that in addition that concern has already been raised in the strategy itself for where the ship is going, it has already been raised in that strategy that there was a lot of elements or information that were gathered in that plan that we later did not see spilled into the strategy. And Mrs. Artolazabal was telling us, not that she had a plan, but that she was talking to Confebask, who was sharing that concern with Confebask. With this, there can be concrete measures, that there are concrete measures at the level of a strategy does not mean that they are not general or that they are not vague, which is what we interpret from the reading of this plan. And that is also what I would like to say to Mrs Arregi about what you were proposing. That's like a GPS, when a direction is very well defined everything goes fast, and the direction is very clear, and all the steps left there lead you to that direction. These added virtualities to which Mrs Castelo referred must be added when that strategy is still green or not clearly defined. For example, with regard to prospecting, I would like to know what elements, for example, this strategy poses to overcome situations of female insecurity that arise in a scenario where employment opportunities are to be created in very feminized and very precarious scenarios, what concrete strategy does this plan present us for example? She told us that Arreg made it from agreement. I don't know what sort of agreement it has come to, because when this strategy was proposed, the majority of this town was not at that table, and we saw afterwards what has happened with that consent. And the chief physician told us that the future was being discussed with Confebask, as we've seen it through Confebask. And Ms. Artoo used to tell us the usual arguments, the eternal practice of opposition, and the eternal argument, even from the group where the government supports it. This may be unusual, and in a great measure normal. You mentioned the quantum targets and the prospects around the job are the reformers. But, for example, with regard to the quantitative ends, no indications are defined about these qualiatory ends. It is not that the partiality, temporality, or the like, is suddenly said to come down; and I should say that the history of the profession is better to leave it for another; for if we were to begin here, we might perhaps arrive at other disputes and differences in the history of the profession. Edozein kasutan, iruditzen zait, that this is an initiative to add, that in fact what it does is to establish a series of directions that also marks a direction, a direction that also seems to be consensual, and that also marks priorities and responsibilities. And I believe that that, in a challenge such as the creation of a quality job that generates opportunities for all people living here, that overcomes those scenarios of precariousness and of lights and shadows – which I did not say, but that says Sara de la Rica – that are being generated in this environment, in an environment in which we have a precariousness installed, that brings with it futures of precariousness and lack of opportunities, because I sincerely believe that it is a very good agreement, that it is a very good agreement, and that it should be valued, and that nothing happens when it is accepted that from collaboration we can do analysis, we can improve actions and we can mark directions that allow this country to go where it has to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u48	I'll be brief, just a couple of things. As a curiosity, then, that has happened to me here today, it is that I have been welcomed to a place where I was already, to our group. Mrs Castelo, with very good intention, welcomed us, said she wanted to influence and not stay out. Well, our parliamentary group, composed of five women and men, that before this legislature, not because we did not want or because the institutions do not seem good to us, we had not held any institutional office, we had never been a public office, from the first day we said that we were going to be an opposition, because the votes had placed us in the opposition, and that we were going to be a constructive opposition. And I think we're proving it, that's what we've been doing since day one. And that is why you know that since the first day here my group has sometimes reached agreements with the groups that support the Government, and on another many occasions because we have not reached agreements. And neither when we reach agreements are we leaving critical positions, nor when we do not reach agreements we are doing – as we have been told in previous debates – overacting or playing a role. I do not know what role the groups are supposed to play, I do not know whether we should play a different role because we are in the opposition or because we are supporting the Government. I believe that the role of my group is primarily related to the attempt to defend the ideas it considers appropriate and in which it believes through the concrete content of the initiatives we are discussing here. And that is what we are trying to do here, and that is why when, as in the previous point, it seems to us that the content, it is not possible to agree with the groups that support the Government for the position they maintain, because we do not reach an agreement. And when it seems to us that the contents are negotiable and that we can defend our ideas by reaching an agreement, we do. That is the position of the parliamentary group of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, being in opposition, and I am sure it will also be how we will act when we are in the government, soon. But I wanted to point out one thing, because you have spoken about the participation of trade unions in the Basque employment strategy, but it is precisely in the employment plan here again that the government has sinned from a lack of negotiation and dialogue with trade unions. And they have said it, that I have not invented it, and they have said it, and those whom we have said before, and those who are present, have said it. Because, I remember that LAB expressed it, but I also heard it say to the Workers' Commissions, that the way it was done for them was very hasty and that they did not have a real opportunity to participate in the elaboration of that plan in an effective way before it was presented. Well, that's a criticism that's there, that I see the counselor who bothers her for the gestures she's doing, I hope to interpret them well, and if not, then she will tell me another time, but it seems to me that this also shows once again what we came to say before, that we didn't invent it, but that nevertheless our group certainly as she said, because in a constructive position that does not avoid being critical of what the government does, we agree with the transaction, and as she said we will support it. Above all on one point, we believe that it will allow better or that it should allow better or at least us to allow us to better control what the Government is going to do through that plan, worth redundancy, to the control that we think from the employment plans we have to do about the quality of the jobs that motivate, encourage or generate this kind of policies, which for us is the fundamental part. So, well, that's the position of our group. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u50	I'll be brief too. Page 38, Mr Hernández, read how the Strategic Employment Plan has been set up and there it appears, bodies with which it has collaborated, trade union centres. Yeah. That they didn't have time, that they would have liked it better? We're not talking about that. We're talking about participation. It was also said in the committee that, anyway, listen, if it cannot be in one place that they bring from another. Man, to participate, and they were told where it is called, at the table at which it is constituted, right. "No, but if I don't want to go to that table, somewhere else." Well, anyway, things have a way and a procedure. Check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, check it out, What I'm saying is that we have to decide and do, and when I say, hey, welcome... I already know that Elkarrekin Podemos when he comes to this parliamentary arch does, I imagine, that with the intention of influencing. What I am telling you is that you have had a lot of vertigo, many times, of leaving that seat and of influencing policies by reaching agreements with other political formations that currently support the Government. For the interests of all citizens? Well, I think sometimes I don't, and I have data, but, well, that's for the particular conversations that then if you want to do in the hallway, but welcome to that you want to influence the politics where the socialists have always been. I would also recommend reading point 8.4 to Mrs Kortajarena on the subject of action for women in women's fields. And I think it's true. Look, I'm going to close, because it's not worth it either, we've reached an agreement, you tell us that the measures can be general or concrete, right, but they have a direction and that when the GPS has a specific direction or at least wants to take you to the center of the village, then he'll look for you how it's getting there, right, the direction we know. And what has become clear here today is that the direction of the Strategic Plan is correct, and that what we are asking is to reach those goals in an equal way more directly or by inciting in some aspects that we consider in a consensual way among all priorities or preferences, right. But we haven't changed course. Okay, and we're also talking about some things being generic, but a lot of concreteness in the proposals because there isn't either. That is something I have been reiterating when we also talk about precariousness, about how we reverse precariousness, and we stay, and we stay and talk about precariousness, but we do not talk about concrete measures on some issues. So, I'm going to stick to what you've closed down your intervention, and it's just that you have to value it when you come to agreements. And when agreements are also reached on matters of interest and importance, and they are a priority concern of the citizens and not when we are engaged in other things. Look, when we put ourselves, as I say, with my hands in the flour on issues that really matter to the citizens, it is easy for us to leave maximalist positions and reach agreements among all. In other matters, when, as I say, they are more of other areas, more of political chimera, because it is more difficult for us to understand each other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u52	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Look, Signora Kortha's, you said that this plan has a good concept of position, but it's not practical or precise. And I'll admit that ever since he's from theory or writing, then it's difficult to take him to practice sometimes, isn't it? But you used the same idea to do the same with the sobre las Personas of Hogar and Society. Near the Basque Plan. That's why I've told you stupid bastards in the first round, black ass to the raven. Because klar, always the same. It's the same on every planet. Hombre, the truth is, we don't share it at all, o sera... If the conceptal position is good, and I think that today's arrangement is important, because we agree in concepts, and we are prepared to improve the government and the opposition that we maintain the government, but that reality and things are gradually acquired by degrees, and that we sometimes try to reach the goal as soon as possible, and sometimes we leave many things on our way, sometimes it is not the case to-day, but, if I think, by degrees, it is very important for us to go forward. On the subject of management the plan, the strategy is very clear what the direction is, and for that reason, studies have been made, agreements have been reached, talks have been made with the different agents, here the government does not draw the plans of a small machine for the art of birlibirloque. He talks, talks with many agents, with trade unions, with employers, with different political parties, and, as a result of that work, he presents plans that, conceptually, even you recognize that they are good and that I recognize that there may later be more difficulties in translating them or that these results can be translated into which we all aspire. The direction is clear and the plan, as Mrs Castelo said, contemplates all the aspects that you included in your original initiative. We recognize that in this effort to work on improvement, because, well, if they are to be specified in concrete terms, as we are doing today, through the annual plans and that the Government had already made a commitment to come forward and make the corresponding evaluations, because that direction and those indicators, mentioned by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, can be taken into account and, if necessary, some correction or improvement is needed, as they can also be implemented throughout the duration of these annual plans. And, man, that leadership is clear and that work is under way, so is the latest data on unemployment, because Euskadi closed April, closes the best April of the last three years, with 2,260 unemployed people less than the previous month. That there are few? What's to continue? Obviously. 124,904 persons registered as stops, the lowest number since September 2009. During the first quarter of 2018, 9,5 % of contracts were undefined, up 17.43 % from 2017. That there are few? That we must continue to improve? That we have to keep taking steps? Obviously. But they are doing things, and the government has a clear notion of what is their goals and their plans are, because that's also the government's jurisdiction, and the plan's being introduced. our work is to make sure that this plan meets us, and to accomplish our purpose. That's all. Thank you. And, yes, we're glad to agree, too, that in this important job, it'll be unanimously accepted today's initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Well, since we've finished the discussion, we're going to vote EH Collect, together with Podemos, Eucomas Socialists and Euzarian Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u54	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "As the Parlamental Society made by the Parlamentions of the People, "about the distributions of the Regregs, and of the openings, and of the openings, and of the eucalyptic Dreams, and of the openings of the World." Discipline and final resolution. On the proposed team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, representative of the Basque Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u55	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A year ago, from the People's Group we raised in this House the need to create an inter-institutional coordinating body for tourism, for the coordination of the public administrations of Euskadi that carry out activities that are directly related to tourism, taking into account the spirit of the Tourism Act, Law 13/2016, which in its article 4.10 calls for this essential coordination of the competent administrations in order to achieve effectively the objectives of the tourism policy. The Government did not consider this proposal, arguing that it was not appropriate to expand the administrative structure, and the following was approved: To set up on a permanent basis the MICE inter-institutional tourism coordination committee within the tourism table, which would be attended by deputies, municipalities, representatives, regional development agencies, to analyse and evaluate MICE tourism criteria in Euskadi. The initial proposal was significantly reduced and MICE tourism was limited exclusively to such coordination. Despite assuming the Government's proposal, the reality, after a year, is that we are where we were. The study that has been made of congresses and events held in the autonomous community in the years 2015-2016, there is another previous, a study of the years 2013 and 2014, that was presented this last study in December 2017, tries to know in depth the activity of congresses and other similar events that take place both in the metropolitan environment of Donostia-San Sebastián, as in Bilbao and Vitoria. And they carry out a comparative analysis between these cities and, for example, the events according to the territory of celebration, we can see that Alava during the years 2015-2016 has counted 639 events, 13.3%; Bizkaia, 2,585, 53.8%; Gipuzkoa, 32.9%. The congresses increase in 333, but the geographical distribution is similar to that observed by the events held in the years 2013-2014. If we go to the classification of events by number of attendees, we can see that in Álava those 639 congresses, which are 13%, have a number of attendees of 113.925, 7.9% of the total; Bizkaia, of those 2,585 congresses, have participated 647.133 participants, 45% of the total; and Gipuzkoa, in those 1,583 congresses, which are 33%, have participated 677.571, 47.1%. If we talk about headquarters linked to the Basque Government, Bizkaia has 47 %, Álava with 43 % and Gipuzkoa with 10 %. The reality is that, the analysis of these studies, each one does it to its own measure. We could hear the Mayor of San Sebastián, Mr Goia, again, it is clear that the situation, far from improving, has worsened, comparing this last report. 2015-2016 with that of 2013-2014, and it complained that the concentration of institutional headquarters of the Basque Government and government-dependent agencies in Bizkaia and Álava generate this situation, when we can see that this has not been the case and, as I told you, Gipuzkoa has had the largest number of attendees to congresses during these two years, 47.1%, and has 10% of the headquarters linked to the Basque Government. Therefore, this parameter is not binding when evaluating events and congresses. If we go to events of the Basque Government, organized or participated, here there are other data. Alava has developed 20%, Gipuzkoa 23% and Bizkaia 57%. Only the Basque Government organized in Bizkaia are 59.9%, in Álava 21.2% and in Gipuzkoa 19%. That is to say, if we go to all the congresses and events that are organized in the Basque Country, I think there is a proportionality, and if we go to those congresses and events that the Basque Government organizes, or in which it participates, the proportionality is completely different, and I believe that what we are trying with the initiative that we present is that the Government, in some way, assumes some responsibility in this area and allows these results to be more balanced. And as I said to them, the data show that there is disproportion in the events organized by the Basque Government, we would say a high disproportion between territories, and this distribution is similar to that observed by the events organized by the Basque Government in the years 2013 and 2014, that is, in the two years we have studied, the disproportion is very similar. It is curious to observe how in the study it is collected that when analyzing the information, there is a significant percentage of events for which there is no lack of data, which makes the study difficult, and that is typical of these last two years, 2015 and 2016, and that is seen in the data. That is to say, in 2013, in 2014, the data were provided for the study, and in 2015 and 2016, in some areas, the data were not provided, and especially in Álava, as reflected in the study itself; it also seems to me to be a factor to be taken into account. It is clear that a situation of imbalance has been created, especially in Gipuzkoa, and I refer to the events organized by the Government, and also in Álava. And so, on February 7, 2018, the Gipuzkoa General Councils urged the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council to increase institutional efforts within the framework of relations with the other historical territories and the Basque Government, the tools necessary to solve the existing differences, both in the location of the headquarters of the Basque Government and in the distribution of the congresses and events organized by the Basque Government through the debate and with the aim of achieving a real balance in the specific weight of each territory. While in Álava, as I said, there are 43% seats linked to the Basque Government, this does not help to improve the conference data, as I mentioned earlier. In Álava, the attendees, as I said, in 2015 and 2016 were 113,925 congressmen and have, as I said, 43% of the seats; therefore, we believe that this is not a parameter that determines. But also the City Council of Vitoria and the plenary of the City Council of Vitoria agreed in full to approve the following motion. "The plenary of the City Council of Vitoria calls on the Basque Government to share equitably in the preparation of the congresses in which it participates in the Autonomous Community, and to this end urges it to seek a binding scenario and involvement of all the departments of the Basque Executive, not only that of tourism." We believe that what is felt is that there is a need for coordination and joint work from the administrations that carry out activities around tourism and in this case MICE tourism and those events that are organized from the institutions especially from the government. Because they look, MICE tourism, the activities of the congresses, of exhibitions, of events, of meetings, is a tourist activity very well received by the cities, by the villages, because it is a tractor element, dynamism of the local economy, activates the hospitality, the accommodation, the bars, the restaurants, the commerce, the service companies, an economic activity that has a wide impact on all citizens, that there are some studies that amount to 868 euros of expenditure per participant in this type of events. In addition, in many cases they come or are accompanied, with which the expenditure usually increases by 30% of what one does alone, that is what the study says, increases by approximately 30%. Therefore, there is everyone's eagerness to host such events and it is also good because they deseasonalize a little, they are in periods of low tourist choice, and therefore what they do is give opportunity to all these activities of our urban cores. And in this spirit we present the initiative, because we understand that in this year we have not managed to generate that working table of institutional coordination, which is demanded as much as we have been able to see in the City of Vitoria or the Juntas de Gipuzkoa, because I believe that they are the two cores or the two territories most affected or that they feel most affected, and therefore, I think it is important that we work on this and that they have to lead it, although it is a cross-cutting policy, they have to lead the Department of Tourism of the Basque Government, at least at the time of organize and formalize this permanent table. We have reached an agreement and I would like to thank the speakers of the groups in this House for their willingness to reach a consensus on the basis of quite different positions and different approaches. And we have come to a text that I think is good, because it is interesting, which can also contribute a lot to that table and let us hope that they will get to work as soon as possible. The initiative states in the compromise amendment: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to take into account the territorial balance when organising its events and determining their headquarters, in addition to the criteria relating to economic savings, organisational issues and the accessibility and availability of the various infrastructures and to establish coordination between the various departments in order to achieve a balanced distribution in their activities and in their different headquarters". In the second point, we say: "The Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to set up on a permanent basis a working committee within the tourism table, composed of the out-of-town deputies, the municipalities of the three capitals and a representative of the regional development agencies for each historical territory, for the diagnosis, establishment and evaluation of the criteria for the development of MICE tourism in Euskadi". And in the third point we say: "The Basque Parliament maintains that in a small geographical area such as the Basque one, it is essential in the field of activity and promotion of the tourism MICE of Euskadi that it must be sustainable and bring added value, take into account synergies and seek complementarity between the different territories, rationalizing investments and seeking a balance in them". And, well, we congratulate ourselves on the agreement, which I believe is positive and which is a step forward to the agreement a year ago. And let's hope you get to work on this table as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Collect EH, Trouble, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all. We must say once more: what is not measured does not exist. And therefore to remember that when the EH Guild said that there was an independence in the City of Donostania when he said that there was a congregation and such events, he was not altogether believed to prove that there was such a remarkable disproportion, or that the first examinations had been made. They weren't that hard either. After all, gg date Finally, even in that sense, December the last year has been published, and the investigation continues to say that the unbalanced has been maintained. And rather than follow the facts, because I think Mrs. lópez has very well given several facts, I think it is necessary to reflect so much. Lehenengo eta behin, gure herria txikia da. Herri txikia nahiz gare eta bear anitza izan. We think we're a small town, even if it's very diverse. We have densely populated geographical areas and there are other areas with very low demographics; we have green areas, we have natural parks, we also have valleys absolutely paved by means of communication; we have areas of major industrial concentrations and other areas of reference wine industries. And these are the physical conditions, but we also have the economic conditions, the democratic ones, the cultural ones, which is the essence of this country. Because of course there is only one way in which EH Bildu faces this debate and it is from the Branding Nation There are countries that have a well-developed and solid brand, that associate with their evolution, with their history, with their contribution to it, as well as many other factors. They are also usually countries of great cultural influence, geographically also very broad. And ours is a small town, and our starting-point is another. We're still working to bring what we are or what we dream of being to reality. And that's why we still have a lot to do in positioning our country image. For example, last weekend our positioning as a country was not Vitoria-Bilbao-Donostia, it was for some Bertiz, but above all it was for the whole world, it was in Kanbo. Euskadi, Euskal Herria, Basque Country or Basque Country, different names for the same reality. And today we also come to talk about part of that positioning strategy and EH Bildu is clear that the development of our country brand has to be a planned and systematic process. In addition, with strategies that capitalize on our reputation. It is known throughout history different references, the famous Shakespeare's Bilbo, or when in the industrial world the reference the famous Bilbao blonde, that is, iron ore was the product that referenced us. On more recent dates too and in the industrial field has been the biennial machine tool the symbolic element that has positioned us at industrial level in front of many countries. For many that's why the fair is precisely that, MICE activities, for others, fair has another meaning. However, that's it. Another world leader is certainly also Zinemaldia. We therefore have important symbolic references, but we believe that we need much more. And of course, the key is the search for synergies and from complementarity between the different territories and zones. We understand that this Branding Nation However, it is also a criticism that it often seems that in tourism the attitude of the saver who can rather than that of cooperation and this mark of country has more primacy. Different types of tourism can also be considered, we have a very specific tourism that for example goes to Biarritz, which could be brought to the area of Donostia or to Rioja Alavesa, is a guy with very specific socio-economic characteristics and also seeks very different objectives. There is another tourism that can have as reference Bertiz or the Peñas de Aya or the Gorbea area. There are different ways of thinking about tourism. What we need is that vision and brand of country that has an impact and, of course, has an impact on MICE tourism. Because it is very different also how experience as a congressman arises when one goes to other countries. The usual also is that when you give a name at a congress, I say already as a user, let's say, there is usually a relationship directly proportional between the distance that separates you from the place and the possibility of extending your stay in that same area. But of course, you will, too, the extent of these stays is always made according to whether the destination country has the necessary appeal. That is why we believe that this too should be one of the fundamental indicators to be incorporated in the work plan, that is, the period in which the stays of these MICE tourists extend from these events. But in any case, this is a consequence, and we must foresee beforehand that MICE will be strengthened by the tourism, and we believe that he will come along with force as a people. At least we defend ours with an advanced country, and our planning will be in that direction. If we succeed as a country, for instance, in the area of watchers, in being newsers, in being inclusives, as in the country, to give rise to such measures as these, we know that he would also help to strengthen MICE himself, because in this case several performances, congregress, and people would come to see and help him. That's what I'm doing in technology. As far as we're on the technology, as we go on, the technical meetings with this subject, the course of course, will increase, congregation, or growth. The same in the research that is carried out at the university, all that we develop often also involves the attraction of interest and therefore, of different courses, congresses, all kinds of activities that promote this type of MICE events. Exactly the same as summer courses. In other words, to the extent that as a country we can offer different points of attraction in economic terms, in research, in technology, in the way that we have solved the problem of the health of our elderly, cultural references, that will be the basis for increasing MICE tourism itself. In other words, being a reference in different aspects will cause us to be an area of interest and help to promote them. That is why we understand that the future of MICE tourism has these two bases, one real, planning as a country that we are going to be, that we want to be and in the end is an interdepartmental or cross-sectoral concept. And a second one, which has to do with positioning, which will obviously fall far more on the responsibility or those responsible for tourism. Therefore, with regard to the proceedings, we raise these two aspects. And as far as the activities carried out by the Basque Government are concerned, for on the one hand to each department, public enterprise or agency we ask you to do so and therefore to be a reference, and from there also to distribute your events in a balanced way. And these control tasks would be that second aspect, which falls to the Department of Tourism which will be a little the guarantor that this which we are approving today is going forward. The last words will also be dedicated to this, because, on the one hand, we are glad that we have made a deal, but the agreements are also to be fulfilled. Two years ago, when we accepted the Tourism Act, we agreed that this would also be development, but two years later we find ourselves here again. For a year ago, we didn't understand the necessity of accepting it, we didn't understand, because we saw that there was no need for it, or we thought so. Unfortunately, the agreement of the two years ago, or what had been agreed on in another year, has not been carried on. Well, we want to give him a chance today, and that's why we think it's good, so we've accepted this. And we want him to move forward this time, but we'll add that we'll be listening and watching, because it's very important for us, and we hope he'll do it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u58	Thank you, Miss Trouble. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u59	Thank you, señora president, good morning, everyone. Today it is up to us to speak, as the spokesmen of the groups that have preceded me have already commented, about a proposal presented by Mrs López de Ocariz, concerning the territorial distribution of congresses and events organized or participated by the Basque Government and the public offices linked to it. This initiative of the People's Party highlights the territorial imbalance in the distribution of congresses and events organized by the Basque Government, as well as in the number of headquarters institutions and agencies under the Basque administration. In the justification presented to us, reference was made to a report commissioned by the Donosti City Council, in which the data clearly show that the current distribution is neither fair nor equitable. I am not going to repeat myself, because the data have already been very well explained by the proposer, but they indicated in these studies that the trend was clear, that it was also known that the situation, far from improving, had worsened for the territory of Gipuzcoano after having lost four percentage points. And this imbalance, which we understand from our parliamentary group, must be analysed in detail, could also be blamed for the greater concentration of the Basque Government's institutional headquarters and dependent agencies in Bizkaia, Álava, and, according to these studies, Bilbao concentrated 47% of the headquarters, Vitoria 43% and Gipuzkoa only 10%. The decompensation is obvious, and in order to solve this misadjustment and recompose the territorial balance, from Elkarrekin We proposed, in our initial amendment, that the necessary mechanisms be put in place to territorially diversify the holding of congresses, activities, meetings and other events, always within a sustainable and accessible tourist strategy. And also to collect new data, carry out new studies that provided us with a more accurate and real picture of the situation we currently have with MICE tourism in our community. To this end, as we have said before, it is essential to guide tourism policies in Euskadi by making a new model of greater economic added value, more diversified from the territorial point of view, compensating for existing misadjustments, but also by making a model more sustainable from the perspective of its social and environmental impact. The rise that has occurred in the business tourism sector, or MICE tourism, turning it into one of the axes of the tourism industry in recent years, must make us reflect and we would like to make a small reflection from here. In MICE tourism which, as has been explained, is a set of tourist flows whose reason for travel is linked to the carrying out of work, professional or associative activities, tourists are far from their place of work and residence, while they are being paid and working. From our parliamentary group we ask ourselves a series of questions, to what extent it can be considered touristic to someone who does not travel for pleasure, who has inescapable obligations and economic objectives, or if in some way we are not, on many occasions, hiding behind this denomination the colonization of all areas of our life by work, the extension, in some way, of labour exploitation to all areas and moments of our life. And even, following this reflection, from the point of view of the analysis of the sociocultural effects, it seems unlikely that this activity will produce in the host society the same effects as in leisure tourism. In any case, there is no alternative but to recognize that this is a branch of this industry, which we have come to call touristic, but which we could call travel, because it has more to do with travel than with leisure or pleasure. In this sense, so-called business tourism has become a priority objective of the tourism policies of many states, and especially of some of the most important cities in the world, because it is a generator of fundamental wealth and, as has been said here, helps to deseasonalize the sector and boost it. But also, as we have said on other occasions in this House, we have to consider for whom and at what price, we have already pointed out many times in this House that excessive growth and quantitative aspects are not everything. Often these trips to meetings and activities can only be made by people of high purchasing power, who spend on high-end services in the city to which they come, and it is important to analyze all the factors in order to be able to talk about sustainability and accessible tourism for all. We must bear in mind that it is virtually impossible for an event not to have a negative environmental impact, but we cannot forget the other two fundamental pillars of sustainability, such as social or economic aspects. Large fairs and mass events, above all, consume a large volume of electricity, use too much paper and produce real mountains of waste. In this regard, we believe that emphasis should also be placed on promoting sustainability aspects, such as the prevention of corruption, reducing carbon emissions, accessibility to events, facilities or events, waste management, encouraging the use of new technologies as a means of minimizing the use of non-renewable resources, promoting responsible and ethical cultural exchange, and local community development, using neighbourhood services. For us, as we have repeated many times, it is an important issue and we want to focus on the fact that, within the measures to be developed for MICE tourism in Euskadi, it is one of the issues that we need to address and that from our group we would like to place them at the centre of reflection and policy. Having done this reflection, we believe that in order to promote sustainable and accessible tourist strategies, it is necessary to collaborate with the different socio-economic actors involved in this type of activities, as well as the inter-institutional coordination between the different administrative levels for the diagnosis, establishment and evaluation of the criteria of the development of MICE tourism in Basquedi, as well as the study of the impact these events have on our cities. And in this way, orient congressional activity and MICE tourism towards a model of greater economic value, more diversified from the territorial point of view, accessible and more sustainable from the perspective of its social and environmental impact. For all that I have said, we have signed a compromise amendment with the other groups, because, although, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, from different approaches and perspectives, and also in this issue of tourism, where we have often failed to reach an agreement, we understand that it is important to seek synergies, consensus is important and it is important to address the challenges that the development of MICE tourism offers us from a political consensus. That is why we have signed the amendment and, as Mrs Larion has said, that does not mean that we will be an advisory eye, that we will be attentive and that we would like to see all those issues that we have raised, not only today, but in other areas of the Department of Tourism fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u61	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative brought to us today by the People's Party, and more specifically by Mrs López de Ocariz, responds to a concern which the Socialists share and which has already been expressed on our part in the last parliamentary term. A concern that we also had the opportunity to discuss here, as has already been said, in May 2017, in this very House. And there have been several initiatives in different territories and cities that have highlighted the concern about the territorial distribution of congresses and events, and it should also be pointed out that there is a clear difference between what has been happening and what is happening. The Gipuzkoa General Councils, in February 2018, reached an agreement calling on the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council to continue to generate and increase institutional efforts, within the framework of inter-institutional relations, with the other historical territories and with the Basque Government, regarding the tools that were needed to resolve the differences that were existing, both in the territorial location of public offices linked to the Basque Government, and in the distribution of congresses and events organized by the Executive. Also in Vitoria-Gasteiz, it has already been said by Mrs López de Ocariz, in February of the same year, the need to make an equitable distribution on the holding of congresses and events has been addressed. And these complaints or instances are made on the basis of two studies, carried out by the company IKEI, which have been circulating in Euskadi since 2015, which collects information on different events that have been taking place in the years 2015 and 2016, dates on which we had not yet started this new parliamentary legislature. In addition, it is mentioned in these studies, which have also been mentioned earlier, that there is a lack of some important data to draw coherent or at least general conclusions on this issue. We start from the fact that the holding of congresses and events of similar characteristics bring important benefits to the cities in which they are held. I do not share many of Mrs García's reflections on MICE tourism. Indeed, it can cause problems, but it is also true that at the moment it is absolutely compensated for the benefits of MICE tourism in the three territories. There's something the territories are fighting for because there's a balance in that distribution of congresses. But, well, serve a little as my point of view to the reflection that you have made on us here in the rostrum. He said that MICE tourism has a direct and also indirect economic impact, so cities want, cities and territories want to expand and increase MICE tourism in their areas. In addition, MICE tourism contributes to the growth of the tourism sector and also, very important, to deseasonalization, which is one of the problems that is being experienced in what tourism in general can be. The activity related to congresses and fairs has therefore become a leading economic engine for the development of many cities, of many Basque cities with a tourist vocation. You have commented on the statistics and percentages, but a remarkable fact: The Basque Government participated in 2015 and 2016 in 13% of the total congresses and events identified by these IKEI studies. We are talking about a direct organization, at the congresses and events in 2015 and 2016, by the Basque Government, or its agencies and dependent companies, of 8.7%. In other words, we are addressing the issue of imbalance in that 8.7% of the congresses, as I say, and events that the Basque Government exclusively organizes. And I say this because, in addition to the important moment, in my view, in which these studies are carried out in the years 2015 and 2016, previous legislature, also the data have its important relevance, its specific relevance when dealing with and considering this problem. We believe that the issue of public seats is much more complex than seems to be deduced from at least the original initiative and the amendments that the groups had put forward. Because while the government structure has more weight, it is true, in Bizkaia and Álava than in Gipuzkoa, which as they said before, that weight was 10%, there is then no direct relation as to the holding of congresses, because the headquarters are related in IKEI's studies to those so-called events by the editors of the studies, which come to be internal meetings held by the officials at the various government offices. And therefore, in addition to the fact that the tourism impact of these internal meetings, whether in one territory or another, are practically insignificant, moreover, little or nothing has to do with these internal meetings with the tourist vocation of the congresses, that is, that we are probably talking about different situations or issues. And we believe that we must also take into account that establishing a general territorial criterion, among others, to determine the location of a government headquarters will undoubtedly give the possibility of making a much more proportionate distribution, much more equitable, which will also favour a more sustainable rotation, than Mrs García was talking about, and much more beneficial for the institutions, but also for those workers who have to always move to other locations, where those government headquarters are located. The studies also conclude that small-format meetings, those with less than 100 participants, are held at almost 80% in Bizkaia, almost 11% in Gipuzkoa and almost 10% in Alava. And that is united, if it is related to the issue of the headquarters and the location by territories of those government headquarters. There is an inertia in holding meetings – it is true – where the seats of the Government are located. And that is why we understand that, as expressed in the amendment, the most opportune thing is that when organizing the Basque Government, the departments, which also organize events, organize congresses, determine those headquarters, that territorial location, in addition to the criteria of economic savings or organizational issues and of accessibility and availability of infrastructure or equipment, take into account this so-called territorial balance, which I believe is what generates discomfort and discomfort in the territories that can be considered discriminated against in some way as to where and how these congresses are located and held. For me, therefore, there are two substantial issues in what is the compromise amendment that we have reached today in the agreement. First, coordination between the departments of the Basque Government. It's just that that's the basis. We already said this in the previous legislature when the Tourism Act was discussed, how it was necessary to create bodies that coordinated the various departments. As much as the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is trying, because it is practicing the criterion of territoriality, then there are other departments besides this that carry out very important events and congresses, and that is what needs to be done: coordination. And that's not going to be done by a table, an advisory body. The Government itself will do so, let us say at higher levels than those of the Department of Tourism. And I believe that this is the fundamental key so that this issue can be carried forward and avoided, with this criterion of territoriality, the unrest or unrest that may have Basque territories and cities on this issue of MICE tourism can be avoided. Because, in some other territories, formal offers have already been made to various departments of the Basque Government to attract congresses and events. Therefore, the issue was not so much on the issue of tourism itself or the Department of Tourism, but it is true that there were others, as Mrs Larrion said earlier, there are other events and there are other congresses that have their impact, because they are medical issues, social issues, integration issues, cultural issues, industrial issues – in short, allow me to cover the whole spectrum – environmental issues, which have a lot and a lot of importance as congresses and which from there could not be articulated any coordination exclusively by the Department of Tourism, can not impose on other government colleagues, but coordinate, and I think that is the value that can be given to the amendment; the first great value that this compromise amendment has is that coordination. We were also talking about the issue of the Labour Commission, which is the second point that we have come to. All right, and it is true that it has not taken place, it has not been possible to hold or set up such an inter-institutional coordination commission for the development of MICE tourism, because it could not be implemented by not having such a legal framework as to be called the Labour Commission. But there have been meetings. On 17 November 2017 there was a meeting of the tourism table that specifically addressed the issue of territorial imbalance, data from 2015, 2016 and 2017 were presented by the Vice-Councillor of Tourism. Well, a number of approaches were taken to try to coordinate and raise awareness of other government tasks, as I say, in order to ensure that these congresses had a territorial approach. Well, something's been done. In addition, there is the offer of the various territories to the departments and therefore, I believe that now, with that legal fit, because Decree 5/2015, of March, by which the table of tourism is created, is now possible. It has as its two organs the plenary and the Labour Commission, as we now generate as such, as the Decree says, that Labour Commission. And finally, let me say, I believe that the fact that we give the criterion in the third point on how infrastructure, investments, territories, facts, congresses should be complemented, I do not know whether to call it a small evil, but it is a reality. Here we are talking about facts by the parliamentary groups, we want a joint vision. The lehendakari Patxi López at the time always spoke of three territories, one country. We want to practice it. Then we get to the territories and every political group and every party throws home, and nobody likes to be anyone's complement, that's true and it's a reality that we'll have to face. But, well, I think the important thing is that we have reached a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Uribe-Gareria, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, as I have said, we had the same discussion in this House about a year ago, and by that discussion we accepted another proposal or text. Today, again, we have the same discussion and what we do is to confirm the text we agreed to last a year ago and the most important idea. But, I would say, with a very important element, we said what we're saying today, and we say either that within the tourry table there must be a work-station to encourage the Euscadian MICE. But that's the third point of what we're going to accept today, because we ask you and I ask you or we tell other organizations what kind of coincidences would have to use tourism MICE, to encourage this Euscatian MICE.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u63	Quiet, please. URIBE-ETX Then he's in this discussion again, a second report from the IKEI company, and has been mentioned here. And, well, I think it is necessary here to make three precisions and, going to the point, to refute a reasoning that seems extraordinarily dubious to me. It has already been said, but the three clarifications refer to the fact that the same study recognizes the lack of data in many aspects relating to the territory of Araba. That's a lagoon. The second is that it also recognizes the study itself that, of the 4,807 events, congresses, etc., that it has detected in two years, there are 871 that have them undetermined, and that means no more or less than 20% of the MICE congresses that have been held in Euskadi. It is a very high figure that, well, I do not say that it totally disqualifies the study, but that it matifies it negatively, if I are allowed the expression. And then there is a third aspect that has attracted my attention and that is that it talks about congresses, it talks about incentive meetings, etc., which is the MICE concept, but it attributes to the Basque Government, organized in a direct way or with support from the Basque Government, a term that is that of events. And it is a term that the study itself, in the last pages, reflects a series of nomenclatures that are used in this field, in this sector, and that do not appear. So, to me, then, seen the data he refers to when he talks about the Basque Government, what I'm surprised is because instead of talking about events, he doesn't talk about what they really are for the most part, which are internal meetings. And, of course, here comes the crux of the matter, because one of the keys to this whole matter is that, a number of what are called events are counted for the Basque Government, which are actually internal meetings and are neither part of MICE tourism. That is, a meeting of the board of directors of EITB, that is not MICE tourism; a meeting of the Board of Directors of Basquetour, that is not MICE tourism; a meeting of the energy cluster is not MICE tourism, or, I don't know, of another department, we can find many examples, and yet it attributes them that character of event and seems that... And of course, because from here comes that reasoning that for me is very doubtful and it says: "Since the internal events/meetings of the Basque Government and its agencies are determined by the location of their headquarters and there is a certain territorial imbalance..." Ah, for let's change the location of the headquarters and so that imbalance will be solved. This really leads us to an unsustainable situation, if Mrs García allows me to use it in the opposite direction, well, some terms, which I believe she defends fairly. Because what does this mean? What must be changed because I do not know the law of Basquetour or the decree and say that the headquarters do not know, so it is somewhere else and then the building we have in Bilbao, sell it and buy another one elsewhere? Well, because you have to rationalize all this, and of course, it's a reasoning that for me it's hardly serious and you have to consider it too, and for me this is very decisive, and I think Mrs. Corcuera has explained it very well, what we're talking about. Let's see, IKEI's study detects, as I said, 4,807 congresses, meetings, etc., of what we can call MICE in two years, and of those 4,807, those organized directly by the Basque Government are 420, that is, 8% as Mrs Corcuera has pointed out. And it turns out that of those 420, that if we look at the number of attendees, 40% are less than 100 assistants, very easily deductible which are internal meetings, of those 420, of course because in Araba they have held 88, in two years I insist, in Gipuzkoa 80, in Bizkaia 247. So that's all the imbalance. And to, say, combat this imbalance, in two years, means that in Gipuzkoa 60 more meetings would have to have been held and in Araba 52 more. Well, in two years. This is what we're talking about. So what I am asking is a certain proportionality in relation to the therapies that can be proposed or applied to the dimension of the problems. I believe that this data sincerely does not justify certain movements, and I am not here clearly accusing anyone, and also that everything is not the number of meetings, because a meeting, because I do not know, of an agency of the Basque Government, because Ihobe, for example, can perhaps bring together 10 people and perhaps the meeting of another agency or of a department because it can bring together 60. Then it is not only the number of meetings but also the attendees. So I think we need to rationalise this whole issue and that is what we, I think unanimously, and that is why I think we have to congratulate ourselves, we are doing so in this GNP that we are going to adopt together. I am not going to read the points because, well, they have already been read, but, well, in the latter I refer more to point 1, before I referred to 2 and 3, and the only thing that remains is to congratulate everyone, thank and especially the proposer, Mrs López de Ocariz for her flexibility and willingness to reach an agreement. So, congratulations and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. If someone's planning to interfere by passing the answering shift? Answers' turn? No? Lopez de Ocariz, Larion? Ez García? No. Corcuera? The House of Uribe? [[Pause]] [[Berber]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Populars, together with Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u65	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parliamentary band, concerning the burning of action among the young men who were exiled for their labours. Discipline and final resolution. It's your word, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u66	Good morning, everyone. From the period of crisis, thousands of people have gone abroad to get jobs from the Basques. Every year 2,000 Basques have gone into exile, most of them young and most of them with high school. We want to bring in those 2,000 Basques, we need to get those 2,000 Basques. We want to bring them here because they are brothers or friends or neighbors, and we want to bring them here because they deserve to be here with us. But we have to bring them in too, because our society needs young people and our economy needs trained professionals. And we have to do something and we have to do something new for that, and that is why we've introduced an initiative to push our team into exile. Since the beginning of the crisis, and before even thousands of people expatriated from Euskadi to all places abroad; expatriated because they had no future; expatriated in search of a job opportunity, a decent salary; expatriated to improve their professional qualification. We estimate that in 10 years more than 25,000 Basques and Basques have had to go abroad. Young people, with higher education, with high qualifications in the majority and from our group we think we need those people, that our aging society needs them; it needs their experience, it needs their strength, it needs their skills and it needs their knowledge. And we also need them to build the sustainable and modern economic development that this country needs, we need them to build the future. That is why our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin, we can put forward this proposal. We are aware that this is a partial proposal, because we not only need the highly qualified people who have gone; we need all of us; we need the young people who have gone, those who are not so young; we need all of us. Each and every one of them have, need, deserve the opportunity to return one day. But this proposal focuses on those who are highly qualified. Why in those people? Because there's a need. Our country has an imperative need, a need to have highly qualified people. And the question is, how do we attract these people? The government developed a program in 2015 to bring them through contracts for others, in Basque companies. The Landhome program. In 2016 attracted one person, in 2017 none, in 2015 to one. It was a program failure. It was a program failure. Not possibly because of the initiative to develop it, but because of the results. Why can't we attract people with other people's account contracts? Well, of course, because they charge more. Out they charge more, much more. Working in Germany means paying an average of 1,000 euros more than in Euskadi. And because they have better working conditions; they have better hours, they have better reconciliation, and they have more job stability. And that's the way it is. This is it. And it is difficult to pretend that these people come to Euskadi to have jobs with scholarships without contract, to have minimum wages, to have precariousness, rotation of jobs, partial contracts and all the backwardness that the employer brings us through its usual measures. So, how do you attract these people? How do you get him back? How did knowledge and talent come to us? With the presidents? No. With bad work conditions? No, we don't. Sign deals with those terms? No, we don't. In case of this, we have to look back. 19th the last great emigration we had in the Basque Country. Thousands of people fled to America and to the Indies. That's why the people who came back called them indifferent right away. The Indians returned with money and ideas. They brought ideas. Why? Because they opened the view, because they knew the progress of the world, because they realized that there were other ways of living and production. To-day, when we speak of Industrie 4.0, and we call it the fourth industrial revolution, we must admit that the arrival of the natives was the first revolution of the Euscal industry; Paper, steel, cement, testilla, machinery. More than 100 years have passed since the last great Basque emigration abroad and history repeats itself. At that time, in the 19th century, thousands of Basques had to leave our country and when they returned they were called the Indians. The Indians. The Indians came back with money and came back with ideas, with new ideas. Today, thousands of Basques and Basques are having to go to other countries. To industrialized countries, to socially and economically advanced countries, where they have seen other ways of living, other ways of producing, other ways of doing things. And now they have that knowledge. Incorporating these people, incorporating them through our entrepreneurship policies can be a good idea, it must be a good idea. It must be a good idea, because the entrepreneurship policies that our Government is developing have limitations. Our country has a entrepreneurship deficit, despite all that has been done and all the money that has been put on the table. Our entrepreneurship rates are below those of the European Union, of course, but also below the state average. And we are below France, Germany and many other countries. But, in addition, the results we are getting with our entrepreneurship policies are not in line with the effort we put in. EUR 250 million in the 2013-2016 Plan and, however, despite the fact that the funds grew by 11% thanks to the efforts of the administrations, the number of companies created barely increased by 1% and that of the autonomous people, did not increase by 5%. The public effort, moreover, is not compensated, it is not accompanied by the same private effort. The public effort has increased by 65% and private capital only one 5%. Therefore, the effort we make in entrepreneurship is not cognizant of us. We need new ideas, we need to do something new, we need to do something different. And we have to turn this situation around. We can't stop, we have to move, and the government itself has to move. We have to put something new in order to bring back those in exile, to establish economic development and to build the future. As I say, we have to do something new, we have to do something different from what we've been doing so far, something different. We also need to innovate on the issue of entrepreneurship, to innovate on the issue of attracting, to bring people who one day had to leave, to bring them home, to bring them to create prosperity and opportunities, to bring them to help us create the future of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u67	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections, Euscala Popular, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well, both from what Mr Becerra has commented here in the rostrum, and from his own initiative, two are the issues on which he gravitates; one is entrepreneurship, and the other is the young and not so young expatriates who leave Euskadi and then it is very difficult for them to return. If we are talking about entrepreneurship, we cannot help but point out that Euskadi has always been a land of entrepreneurs, but that, at the moment, however, we are not in the leading positions, but, quite the contrary, we are in the last positions. While the entrepreneurial rate in Spain stood at 6.2% in 2017, rising from the previous year, although it is true that the pre-crisis parameters have not yet been reached, however, in the Basque Country we are not so. It is true that Spain as a whole is below the European average, but it is also true that in entrepreneurship rates we are above countries such as Germany, France and Italy. On the issue of entrepreneurship, the data I am going to provide are the data offered by the GEM, which compares the level of entrepreneurship of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with other environments, and I have used it because it is an important database, which already has 14 years of life. Well, according to these data, in 2016, the entrepreneurship rate remains stable, as I said, below the Spanish average, at 3.3%, although it is true that it improves the perception of entrepreneurship. There is an improvement in the gender comparison and a similar number of women entrepreneurs are being reached. Normally, the entrepreneur is a professional with higher education and, at the moment, more opportunities are being seen for women to undertake, because we are less afraid of a possible failure. In general, between men and women, the profile of the entrepreneur is of a professional with university education, with an average age of 40 years and very clear ideas about business niche, which compensates him for the limitations of the entrepreneurial potential and entrepreneurial activity of the environment. It is true that here in Euskadi entrepreneurship is usually seen as an opportunity and as an important motivation, by have autonomy with respect to the professional life project. The projects that start here in Euskadi, have an international vision, about 30%, although it is true that it has decreased compared to previous editions. With regard to financial support, as he said, to entrepreneurship, as Mr Becerra said, it is essentially based on the financial capacity of entrepreneurs, because they contribute 74% of the capital needed for business, and it is also true that, beyond the institutions' contribution, even bank financing for these entrepreneurial projects is minimal, although it is true that the seed capital needed to undertake has been reduced and now stands at around 15,000 euros, being similar to the Spanish average. It is true that, in positive terms, informal investment in entrepreneurship projects has grown in 2016, which are the latest data available, compared to 2015. It is true that the evaluation of policies, programs, infrastructure to undertake from our community, from Euskadi, is good, but there is a deficit, such as education in values and content of entrepreneurship in primary and secondary education, being this the weakest area in the entrepreneurial ecosystem of our community, and there is also a setback in the mechanisms R & D. There were recommendations in this report, recommendations that we consider important, such as strengthening policies to support youth entrepreneurship, awareness-raising and awareness-raising of entrepreneurship values, along with options for improving training for young and adult people for business creation. Also continue to bet on improving the tools for R & D transfer in universities and technology centres aimed at creating start-ups It is true that all the institutions are taking action in this regard, but perhaps because of this lack of coordination, it has not just been the desired result. Because the truth is that, as Iñaki Peña, professor of the Deusto Business School, also points out, entrepreneurship values that were once rooted in the Basque Country are not now and must be recovered. And besides, as Mr Becerra said and I said at the beginning of my speech, in addition to the entrepreneurship we have talked about the talent, the great talent that young Basques have and a talent that at this moment is going away from Euskadi. According to the observatory, as was said in the immigration initiative Ikuspegi, the annual average of departures between the ages of 18 and 35 is around 4,000. According to Professor Sara de la Rica, in 10 years Euskadi will have a deficit of 100,000 people, because we are not only losing population as she said, but also we have the lowest birth rates in Europe, and to this, because, as has been said here, it joins that part of the youth, especially the most highly qualified, goes to other cities in the rest of Spain, and goes also to other European countries because of the lack of job opportunities here or because of the lack of sufficiently attractive job opportunities and that corresponds to the talent they have developed in their formation. And the bad thing is not that they leave, the bad thing is that they don't come back. I mean, the bad thing is, they don't come back here in the end. Then, in a demographic scenario of shortage of young people, as Professor Sara de la Rica says, with which to deal with this generational employment relief, because, obviously, we cannot afford to let the most educated go, because here they do not have a future project. With this, first we must try to keep young people from leaving, giving all those opportunities to which I referred, which are contained in the recommendations that the GEM report made, we must also try to make those who have gone, give an overview attractive enough in Euskadi so that they can return, and even register people with the educational levels that we need right now. That is, the talent that has gone back and attracted new talent. For this it is true that joint bets have been made by companies, institutions and technology centres, as Mr Becerra pointed out, for example through the LandHome programme, as a complement to this initiative the Basque Government also authorized an ambitious grant project to help young Basques under the age of 35 return to Euskadi to enter the labour market. We also have initiatives, for example, on the part of the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, the Bizkaia Talent programme. Also from another department of the Basque Government, Employment and Social Policy, they have designed return plans for these young people under the age of 35. From the People's Party we have worked with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to fiscally also support entrepreneurs and talent, and measures have been taken to ensure that start-ups And at the institutional level of entrepreneurship is, which is also included in the initiative, the Bind 4.0 programme aimed at new companies and entrepreneurs, which is mainly aimed at attracting start-up companies. Therefore, we see that there are programmes, that there are instruments, but it is true that, as Mr Becerra said, because they have not just worked out and that we need an area of improvement, because the professor who mentioned before the Deusto Business School pointed out that it is true that we are well budgeted, that we are budgetaryly spending a lot of money on young people's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, we are above other areas of Spain, but that this expenditure does not turn into economic and social value, which does not give the result that would correspond with the effort that taxpayers are making with their contributions to these programmes. As has been said here, for example the Landhome programme, because it is an objectively good programme, but its results have clearly not been expected to exist at the time of the programme. Although it is also true that we must recognize that we tested as the Bind 4.0 in the second edition has doubled the projects of the previous edition, with which we also see that there are some that do not work but others that do. So, in that sense, I believe that the amendment that we have come to is a positive amendment, because what is at issue, as Mr Becerra said, is not to deny that there are things, that there are plans, that there are actions, that there is a stake in entrepreneurship, but it is true that we have shortcomings and that we have to make every effort, among all the institutions and among all the political groups, to achieve, as he said, to retain talent in Basquedi, to encourage that talent to become projects of entrepreneurship. Let the one who has gone, who has been able to train abroad, come back and that even those who are abroad who are not from Euskadi but want to come to Euskadi, because it is a territory attractive enough that its entrepreneurial projects here can have room and result. That is why I believe that the amendment that we have signed Elkarrekin Podemos, the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and we are a good amendment, and let us hope that then this will be fruitful in actions and in retention and in coming of talent to Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u69	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u70	Yes, good noon to all. First of all, in the medium which has been distributed as it has been, the Basque People have not agreed with the proposal, and I shall attempt to explain to you why we have decided to stay out of it, and so on, and then on to abstration. We believe that in this proposition several subjects have been confounded, not in a bad sense, because we speak of young men, because we speak on one side of the young men who have to go abroad. Because, on the other hand, we're talking about programs of excellence. Because we're talking about different programs that are working today and each other...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u72	Yeah. Thank you. for we believe that the one and the other have parallel and unequal paths. We are talking of excellence, and in this sense and in the looks of those young men who have to go, we ought to place excellence in study and in excellence in study rather than in the course of work. And we believe that we are still here today in Euskal Autonomy Er member, far from excellence, just because many young people and many of them have to go and develop their lives into other countries. And it has been established in action in this medium where the focus has been obtained, and we are not at all opposed to action, but we believe that this proposition must go farther than that, so that the correction we made in our own time was derived from it. And, further, I think we might think or reflect about action, like action, which we understand, even where we are conducting all these helps. Where small and average companies remain, whether agriculture and cattle projects, for instance, are or are not actions, or whether we consider areas such as soft social economy and co-operative economy. Then we thought we had to open the view and that's why we didn't get in the middle. We thought there was need of a diagnosis, on the one hand, for which reason all these young men were driven out, under what conditions all these young men are now out, and what we do with the plans that are running around the programmes. Because we know, and it has already been explained that if there are some programs already running, they might be able to improve. Some of them, well, who're doing their careers, but we don't think they miss that wide view, do we? And the point of view in action all the time makes us feel like those young people who have had to focus once more. I mean, they don't seem to want to develop their projects here, and so, well, they've left, and other space or other countries have given them the opportunity to do so. And rather than their responsibility, I think it's our responsibility to see what chances we're giving in our country at this moment to develop a life projects and a job projects inside it. So the need for the open approach of the view and the opportunity that can be So we are faced with a problem which is a deep social and political basis, the problem of the young people who have been forced out of here has, in their social and political basis, its aim or beginning, rather, and in that sense we believe that the answers must be integral. Because we have no photographs, and often without photographs, we're acting as best we can, but he won't answer the big number we were talking about. So, by the title and saying, it was a very fat subject that was brought to the table today, and the middle-way that we think it was, gives a partial answer to a person who will answer, no doubt, but will not answer many others. With small, partial plans, we won't get to the bottom of this problem we've got now, so we think we'll have to take a few more steps from our group, at least in the next week, we'll have another proposal to keep working around the prevaricial work that young people have. Together we have already spoken with Poseidon in this sense to give him a few more steps in this proposition, so I would like to finish insisting on it again. We do not, or do not say that what is proposed to-day will not answer a collective man, and that he will not do him any good, but in this case we believe, and when we were speaking of the collective multitude of young men who have to go into exile, we need a more general view, and therefore our abstinence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u74	Yes, thank you, President, good morning again. The Elkarrekin initiative Podemos proposes a programme to capture entrepreneurship initiatives among people who want to develop ideas acquired during their stay in other countries and who want to return to Euskadi. And the Basque socialists at the time, together with the Basque nationalists, amended the initiative in order to reach an agreement. To an agreement that would bring value to the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan of Euskadi 2020, because we understand that we are not starting from scratch on this issue. And as no one has commented on the amendment in which we have reached agreement with Elkarrekin Podemos and the Basque People and Basque Nationalists Group and we, because I will do so, because I believe it has its importance and interest. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to strengthen and complement the Entrepreneurship Initiative Capturing Programme within the framework of the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan of Euskadi 2020, with new actions to support people who want to return to Euskadi, in particular to make use of the potential and experience of those with high technical and professional qualifications, and through the Bind 4.0 programme, promotes actions, inter alia, access to finance, aimed at bringing to Euskadi those entrepreneurs interested in developing their ideas and projects, and fixing their residence in Euskadi. And it seems to me that this is an agreement that is important and that, while respecting the point of view of Bildu's spokesman, he does have a very generic perspective, not only because of the scope of the people to whom he is addressed, they are not only young people, not just the sectors, not only in the entrepreneurship sector, but also and fundamentally, but also based on a whole strategy that already exists for the return of people who have had to leave or who have left, at the time, outside of Euskadi to have or to obtain other opportunities. The Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2020 programme is not just the only issue or plan that we have brought to this House. We are already starting from the Basque Employment Strategy; we are starting from the Framework Plan for Employment and Economic Recovery; we have the Interinstitutional Employment Plan, which is not a year or two ago, it is very recent, we were discussing this plan among all political groups a few months ago, contributions were made to it, incorporations were made, and that plan was also based on the evaluation of the previous interinstitutional entrepreneurship plan. And, therefore, not only because of the sector to which it is directed, which is entrepreneurship, but because of the field, because it is not just the sector to which it is directed. The Basque Parliament, of the Basque Government, but also of the outside institutions, which I also think is very important to me, is the connection on this issue. Therefore, in Euskadi we do not start from scratch, but we start, as I say, from many varied plans to make possible or make viable that people can return to Euskadi, they can find here the opportunities that one day they had to leave and find out. Of course, there is no 100% effectiveness because if not, in fact, the plans like Landhome would have been effective and it would not have been two people who would have been welcomed, but it is that in this concern and in this concern not only is Euskadi as such, it has not only occurred to us. It is true that in Congress, for example, of the Deputies, in February 2007, the Socialist parliamentary group put forward a non-legislative proposal on the thrust of a programme to support young Spanish migrants for their debate in the Employment and Security Committee, as I say, of the Congress of Deputies. Another autonomous community, Andalusia, has the Return of Talent Program, and since 2015 they are acting and working on this issue. Aid lines are diversified into recruitment incentives, in this case targeted at companies and aid associated with the transfer of residence. In Castilla La Mancha, this issue has also been working for years, with three lines of action: subsidies for indefinite recruitment, aimed at those residing or working abroad; subsidies to start the entrepreneurial activity for young people also, specifically; another of the lines, the passport, the so-called passport back, a title that implies the right to obtain the grant of aid with which to cover expenses of transfer from abroad. The Principality of Asturias, based on calls, in this case, to return the talent for the development of activities in R+D+i. Cities also involved, there are Basque cities, of course not. Also, the City Council, for example, of Valladolid, with a pioneering program that achieved the return of people to launch business projects linked, in this case, to areas of innovation, circular and collaborative economy, cultural and creative industries, and internationalization. That is, there are multiple communities, institutions concerned about this issue, and there are also multiple strategies, lines of action and plans that are being implemented. As I say, it is not a matter of making plans like headless chickens, it runs, it runs to see if this is the way to achieve a plan, but I believe that in Basquedi, if we can boast of something or be satisfied, it is that we first evaluate how the plans worked, and then, on that assessment, on those things that have not worked, are rectified, new ideas are proposed and I believe that this is the value that can be given, even today, to the amendment that we have reached in compromise with the proposer, because it is not only that the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2020 is already done and that is where we have finished our work, no. Indeed, that plan, and so it remained in the committee, and Mr Becerra knows, that plan is subject to annual reviews and, therefore, it can be modified and, in fact, it is logical to rectify in those questions or lines on which an optimal result has not been achieved, which seems to me to be sensible and coherent. Therefore, we believe that this Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan is where the initiatives and proposals made by Mr Becerra, to which we have reached that agreement today, as I say, must fit in because it is also a reviewable plan. The projects included in this plan, which referred to the training and connection of human capital, had a strategic objective: to strengthen the training of entrepreneurial human capital, especially at all stages of education and to promote its attraction. It also lays the key to the diagnosis, the need for initiatives to attract entrepreneurs from international environments. And this line of action aimed to attract international entrepreneurial human capital, with particular attention to those profiles necessary for the social and productive transformation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and its enterprises, and to facilitate their entrepreneurial experience, addressing professional and personal needs. And this particular line, this particular axis of action of the plan, had a level of impact and priority on that so-called high plan, that is, the maximum. Therefore, it is a commitment and a vocation that the Government and the groups that we support the Government have to tackle and enable the return of talent to come to Euskadi, as it has gone, because the logical thing is also that in those facets in which it has invested, as it is in education, as they are university or vocational training issues, in which society has also left as such money, that such training goes away and does not come back, seems to us in some way to waste a human and formative capital that is important and also paid for by society. I would like to outline in the time that I have something that is also important, because many times we can have magnificent plans, but after these do not get to spread, that does not really reach who is the target, the staff to whom it is directed. And I would like to record how in March of this year the parliamentarian, Mr Barrio, responded to a concern in this case, and from the Department of Employment and Social Policy he was provided with documented information on the protocol for the dissemination of the programme for the return of Basque youth. It is a cooperation protocol between the Department of Employment and Social Policy of the Basque Government, between Confebask, with ASLE, with Konfekoop and with the universities of the Basque university system, to disseminate the programme of return of Basque and Basque young people to work centres rooted in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. So, I think there are plans, there are measures that are in addition, they are already coming from a prior evaluation and with the corrections and we are also able to spread, I think that the agreement we have reached today is a good step towards achieving the goal and is that the people, the people who left in their day, return to Euskadi, return with their capital and also not only return, that they stay, that is the important thing too, because one can return and in the end not find their place the same. The important thing is to work for a stay on that return. And then one last question, the fiscal question, and I would not like to go too far for it, because I think it is also worthy of recognizing that the historical territories are, in Gipuzkoa, the new fiscal regulations have just been approved, in Bizkaia and in Álava will be done soon. And in this new tax legislation, in this tax reform, two articles are proposed for the IRPF and one for the corporation tax, specifically talking about the possibility of tax facilitation of the return of entrepreneurs to the Basque Country and to the historical territories. And I think that's important, because it's already a set of regulations. Now we have to see how effective that measure is. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u76	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good day to all of you, chiefs of departments, members of the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen Becerra and Corcuera and Llanos, good noon to you in particular. Well, Mrs. Houseland, I think, I'll begin with the idea you mentioned, and I have that feeling, in some way, that we've been mixed up a little bit of middle-class correction. Some have put more force in this ego in the title, within the circle of young men; others have put force, accent, or special allusions into the scope of action; others in different programs. And I think it is true in this case, that the other proposition, as it were, has been proposed from many enfokes, and that the corrections of it should be introduced. And this has perhaps been made more difficult by looking at you or the person you presented in this half-rational correction we've set before you. In any case, I believe that we are speaking of the young men who have gone abroad, and that is not because we place them in them, but especially of the young men who have gone abroad. But, of course, in many different chapters of 'Medon', and in advance of me there have been a number of reports about the past, a lot of enterprises are urged to promote the job, and there are employment opportunities to come here without needing to go abroad in the Euskaline itself. This is the point in which we discuss this, because the object of Mr. de Becerra's initiative was so exactly this. But in any case, it's all right to examine the data, and here we have an analysis in the parliament, Análisis de los mulimiendos migroris de la Juventud nacida en Euskadi. Baina edozein kasutan, jakinda hori de la hemen aztertzen den kolektiboa, ipintzen dona: "Reasons to work abroad, to go abroad from 18 to 34 years old". Eta konklusioa hau da: "Most of those with work experience abroad, went to practice with scholarships or to live new experiences and continue learning languages. Only 7.9% –eta kontuan hartu beharreko sode bat da – left for lack of work." I think we should consider what information the data gives us. We don't have any photos, but it's true it's very complex to take data, records, motives, and reality into a good photo. And it cannot be answered in a detached manner, without any manner of reply, without any manner of commenting on it. We believe that in the field of employment there is a complete network of strategic plans to encourage enterprises. Mr. Becerra, taking some ideas from your original initiative, I think it's important because I think we've confused a little because you've mentioned 2,000 eupscalal aliens. It was not particularly mentioned in the original initiative that they had been driven abroad from Basques. They didn't mention it in the original initiative. It was said that "quemos establecer una iniciativa para fomentar el empremiento entremias expatriadas desde el Estado." Then there's been other initiativees about this mention and we've arranged it. But that's the way it was. As to the facts, show me the clue. The young people left here have gone 7,9%, for a reason to work abroad. Euskadi tiene la necesidad de atrar a personas de alta cualción. This is the way in which the several enterprises are urged, that some may come from here and others, although we do not leave it, we have a reduceted town, and a demographic reto. And we have another rescue for creating jobs and social jobs and corporations of quality. And to encourage all this, a tant a personis expatriadas como a no, a personas que no están expatriadas, different enterprises are urged. You can mention the Dozu LandHome program and the words you're telling me, and you're sending me data in the parliament. It wasn't a good result of that program, and the departments said that an analysis needed to be tested from the fun department would be explained and tested as the program and the improvement will take place. It has been mentioned, and as the first word has been spoken, that a programme has been started to translate young men specially. This protocol, which has been signed in the Parliament, was recently signed in person a few months ago. Mr. Becerra said "no nos sirven solo iniciativas firadas con aquaellos que peon divinitades." It was that kind of idea. I've understood you'd leave this place, but we think it's very necessary for the firm, the university, if we're trying to work out and push it into a higher form, and we've had a chance and we've got this initiative here. So there have been a lot of enterprises that have started. Low entrepreneurship rates in Euskadi. Aipatu izan dozue idea hori bai zuk, Becerra jauna, bai zuk, Llanos anderea. Well, I think in some way we had Llanos and Becerra, both of us repeated the discussion we discussed the plan of action at its moment. The entrepreneurship rates, the GEM report to which you refer, Mrs Llanos, point out that the innovative level of the newly created Basque companies shows a higher level than the European and State average, and innovation is more present in the newly created companies than in the consolidated ones. And in this discussion the chief physician himself says that this bet in favour of action is not so much to encourage as to encourage quality. Hence, if we consider the action itself and the projects proposed in this sphere, it is thus that the activity is less projected. But they're high-class snobberys and they're at the top of the technology. They're both higher than EB media, state, and European media, and we think that's very important. I believe that the middle-class doctrine, the dowright, is an interesting middle-class program that pushes us on an important line of dogula action, and that we have a new and technological activity within the scope of Bind 4.0, and that, well, we've done some special actions to push it, and that we've been asked to return from outside to the Euskate so that we can participate in it. We think Bind 4.0 is the program we should push, and that's what we're talking about, because I don't know how to say this concept in eucalyptic, but it's the primer to the acelator. Well, it's probably a project to push. La primera accerado del mundo que developediza el acceso de starts That's what you think you're talking about. We have all this information about Bind 4.0 and SPRI, but we need to consider from first Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Siemens... 27 other tractor firms entered and multiple starts up. Follow us this way. We think that the two principal retotes of this people are pushing, like, the jatan, head of the department, what you have chosen, and I congratulate you. Dot do I think it is a very good rudder: "Place to invest, place tolive" is chosen, and I believe that this enterprise of doctrine is being answered to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u78	I quite agree with you, Mrs. Houseboy. I have also said that my enterprise has been partial, partial, and directed to action; but I have read your amendment, and I am quite ready to protect it, and I am glad to hear that we shall have a chance of doing something between the two groups. But we must say that the young have not only gone abroad, but other people have gone away, and those who worked in construction or reform have also gone into exile, then my enterprise is partial, but we must consider that even those who have gone into exile have not all been young. That's all to say. But it is true that our initiative came from the discussion of the entrepreneurship plan, we are not going to reverse the discussion of the entrepreneurship plan here, but I think it has its weaknesses, Mrs Llanos also mentioned them, but we are not going to analyse them here. But it is true that one of the contributions made by our group, namely number 3, went in this direction. You, too, were Mrs. Corcuera there in front too, you read it and said well, this initiative must be read carefully, it must be analyzed. We gave them five months and we understood that it was proceeding to make a proposal not of law, because it had to be analyzed but with a certain urgency. Why with a certain urgency? Because the people who have gone away, the people who have been gone for years and years and some have been gone for 10 years, are doing their own vital projects abroad, and possibly in a few years those people will settle there, will have their families and it will be much harder to get them back. So it is urgent for us as a country to activate the return policies of those people who have left, hence that we present a proposal not of law, not so much to amend the plan of entrepreneurship as such, but good because to develop an initiative that seemed interesting to us. If I have to say it's true that the LandHome Plan hasn't worked and I've tried to give a clue why it hasn't worked. It hasn't worked in part because if we try to bring people who are charging more abroad to work in Basque companies that won't pay them that much, some won't be able to pay them and others won't want to pay them that much. And that's why I say that the solution is not to sign pacts with the employer because we need to cover 100,000 jobs, with that same employer who puts wage and labor conditions that do not allow people who are better abroad to come. But, well, that is also another debate that we have had on the first point, it does not proceed. It is true that in your amendment, Mrs Corcuera, I am now going to devote some time to you, you proposed the Bind 4.0 plan as a solution. That program does have its interest, it has its interest to attract international talent, start-ups start-up start-up Then the root comes from the hands of people, so it is precisely interesting our initiative because what we intend to do is to root out innovative projects and ideas through people who already have the root here, who are Basques and Basques. It is also true that in our initial initiative we proposed that they should be State, because it is also true that their rooting will be much greater than that of someone who may come from New Zealand. In the Bind 4.0 program one of the initiatives supported in 2016 was from India and in this, in the finalists there was one from China, one from Ukraine, two from France, two from Portugal, one from Canada, I repeat, it is interesting to bring those companies, but ensuring their roots is much more difficult than if we do it with companies created by Basques and Basques. And well, and that's where it came from, and I agree perfectly with what Mrs. Llanos said that it's not the same thing to attract start-up. What is missing from the entrepreneurship plan is ideas, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. And hence the interest too. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u80	Yes, thank you, Madam President, with your permission from the seat. It is simply Mr Becerra to tell you, in fact, what it is all about to combine everything. Not just bring start-ups But I think it's all compatible. It is true that I believe that your initiative in this respect and that is why I believe that the amendment to which we have come is positive, in the sense that we believe that we need to look at the issues that have an area of improvement and improve them and see that the same, some that have not worked, because discard them and bring in new ones. Mrs Etxebarrieta, it is true that the initiative is partial. We agree, here we talked about two issues, entrepreneurship as a formula to give opportunities to young people and talent and the return of talent, but it is also clear that we will have to look for formulas to give opportunities to young people, beyond entrepreneurship. And that is that it is also that, not only talent but also all those who have gone to seek future projects outside of Euskadi, as they return to Euskadi, seek formulas for it. I believe that this was a specific and partial area, which does not prevent more general issues from being dealt with as well. And to Mrs Gorospe, just tell her, that we recognize that there is culture here, and there are entrepreneurs, there is a culture of talent and there is a stake on the part of the government, an economic bet and an institutional bet, not only on the Basque Government, but also on the other institutions. What this is all about, as I said in my first speech, is to look for formulas so that all this institutional economic effort that is being put on the table has more fruits than those that it is currently having. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u81	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Houseboy, that's where.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u82	No, no, she's red. Well, I went down. Yes, I am now. Well, we share a number of things that have been said. We too, and I have tried to explain it to you, in this partial sense, that we should take a look at the different plans which are now in motion, because we were talking about a more global problem. And, indeed, in time to examine what we need, apart from these plans, we needed a more general photograph. Mrs. Gorospe has already dropped some data we've got together, some reasons. But we think we should look at it even more. Because we're saying that we're still leaving. And that's one of our problems. Hence, perhaps, we sometimes saw the need of going back two or three steps, to see the generality of the photograph, whether of what the young are outside, about what they have here, and about the lack of development or development in which these programs are developed, and in which we had to improve ourselves. And rather than focusing on partialities or concrete points, we might have a good chance of seeing them in general. But no doubt, and, as we said at first, it is not that we oppose or oppose such a program. Besides, we even took part in the campaign, made proposals, some of which were accepted. We'll keep working on that sense, but we'll still have an idea to emphasize it again. And I don't say that's what's been put on in this discussion at all. But when we're talking about training, we often have a feeling that we're focusing on these young people, or that they haven't developed these projects somehow, and not on conditions that are so many days, and that we can develop those personal and work projects. So, well, that's all. Well, we've also tried to thank, we've also tried, we can see, in the direction we're going, and maybe we can join in the diagnosis, but in this step, or in that sense we're going back, or two paces back to see the general universality of the picture we wanted to take. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u84	Yes, with permission from the presidency, from the seat. Just to clarify some or make some clarifications. I have not commented, in case Mr Becerra has misunderstood me, I have not said that his initiative was not interesting, on the contrary, I share and congratulate him on being able to present it so that we could reach an agreement as it has been. Because we also share the need to root out projects in Euskadi, for the development and benefit of all Basque society. That our amendment was short? Obviously, in order to then begin the process of discussion and negotiation with the groups and to be able to do something much more complete, as it has been and as we have given rise to agreement in that amendment. I would like to make it clear, on the other hand, that this is not an improvised thing, which we have been able to reach agreement on, because Mrs Gorospe and I have been so won today, but that it is part of the fact that there is a government agreement, further supported and signed by the Socialist Party of Euskadi, Euskadiko Ezkerra, in which we point out that for this parliamentary term we have made it very clear that the talent and participation of people and a new model of more transparent labour relations are key elements for the competitiveness of our economy. And I say this because it seems to me that we sometimes forget, when we didn't have this kind of agreement a year ago, well, because I do want to highlight it, because it seems to me that it is the basis for then being able to make that Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2020, to make that Framework Plan for Employment and Economic Reactivation, to talk about the employment strategy, and for a whole series of plans that have, moreover, in specific sections, talk about and deal with actions and strategic lines to encourage and promote the return of people who were abroad, and to be able to participate in the development of Basque society. I therefore believe that it is essential that we be able to put forward lines, to reach agreements, which perhaps for some group is partial, but we have reached agreements, and this is one more step, that I believe it is important that the consensus that we can have on this subject in this House be broad, because we are doing a great deal about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u86	Yes, ma'am, in order to emphasize three ideas from there. Llanos andrea, said that this people have a culture of talent, in fact, there is a culture of talent. The only problem we have in the field of entrepreneurship is ballast and fear of failure. This country has a culture of talent, but is afraid of failure and stigmatizes failing initiatives. And that in the area of entrepreneurship is a problem that we have to overcome. A change of values, saying that risking is good and that the one who falls gets up and has more opportunities to move forward. It has been stated that Madame Corcuera, the plan is living, when we agreed to the terms we had arranged, that this plan was put into question and that it was open for each other. And I think that this proposition we've agreed to today is in this sense, and that the plan is in the way of improvement. And finally, you meant, Mr. Becerra, the start-ups. All are welcome, all start-ups Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the debate has ended, we will vote together with Podemos, the popular team of Euskal Socialists and the middle-direction that has been signed by Euzébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 57; contrary, 0; white, 0; abstations, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-10.u88	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and seven in the afternoon.
