ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the staff of the Mien Josune Goroskape Eerkano, a member of the Society, made to Ogal and Economics Department of Estate, about the budgets of the Euscription of Eusebert. " Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u1	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. The day before yesterday, as I was driving in the carriage, Mr. Chief, listening to the radio, they were talking about courage. It is said that being in the region of the Council only makes us personally limited, and it seems as if we should be brave to do what you would not do for the sake of the comfort or fear of self-defence. They began to think of the classic philosophers. Besides the concern of abstract things, Socrates paid attention to man, and maintained that he should pass from military ethics to philosophical ethics, contrary to the denial of realism, which is philosophical ethics. They spoke of manners, because Aristotle thought it best to maintain itself; not too much, not too little. When all this comes to politics, Mr. Chief, what do you think of it? Well, to me, the attitude that EH Collect has in the budget process: one, the lack of courage, the pressures they may have, and, even in the EAJ-PNV, the social world, the denial of realism, the denial of it to assert that the right course is that it is the limit to which it cannot be surpassed in its budget; and thirdly, that it is not the right course to consider that it is that which seeks the balance, not too much, not too much. EH Collect has shown up with his attitude that he has decided to chronify in his confort zone. Will the review prevent him from receiving it? Will he prevent political bills from paying? Maybe, but what about the consequences? Cowardly to make autonomous decisions that may be subject to critical judgment; lack of political realism to recognize that the government's budgetary action has limits that it cannot exceed; inability to recognize that virtue is in balance, not everything or nothing. Lack of balance, realism and courage. Or were they looking for free propaganda? They have decided to generate false expectations knowing from the beginning that they would not move from where they have always been. The problems are not solved by looking from the barrier.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u2	Mrs. Gorose, Mrs. Gorospe!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u3	They solve themselves by working...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u4	Miss Gorospe! Miss Gorospe!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u5	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u6	The question is to the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u7	Yes, but arguments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u8	The question is to the government. Okay? The question is to the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u9	This is not what you have given the Government is a no to the possibility of allocating more than 142 million to social policies and employment policies, and a no to helping the most vulnerable groups such as women, young people, people in long-term unemployment, pensioners. But we will explain with transparency to society what has happened, and from there not a minute more to lick our wounds. We will do everything we can to continue working for Basque society. And that is why, counselor, yesterday we heard you say that you will be able to make some corrections to the budget, but that you have some limits and that you will not be able to make all the corrections. Hence the question we raised from our parliamentary group: what are the government's expectations for the 2019 budget from a budgetary perspective? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mrs Gorospe, before I answer you, I would like to publicly thank many people for the work they have done in recent months. I begin by thanking all the people of the Government Budgets edition who have devoted hours and hours to making the project perfectly designed; the groups supporting the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, for their efforts to defend a project that was an opportunity for Euskadi; the department's negotiating team for its dedication and, of course, for the lehendakari, for the trust it has placed in all of us and ourselves. Eskerrik asko. Couldn't be; EH Bildu let the train through. I have been representing the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid for 17 years, as you all know, and I repeat, I have never experienced a negotiation process that has generated so much disappointment, because that is the word that wins among all those that occur to me: disappointment. And the worst is not that they have deceived the Government; the unforgivable thing is that they have deceived thousands of people, generating false expectations, lacking the truth. That said, I want to move calm. The Basque Government has the necessary legal and budgetary mechanisms to continue to guarantee the well-being of Basque citizens and to promote the economic development of Euskadi. AUBREY favors the welfare of the Basque People. Euskadi will continue to encourage economic development. I want you to calm down. I would also like to make it clear that an extension has important correction possibilities, but we will not deny that it is also limited. The Government will continue to work as we know how to do, with clear, realistic, committed and viable objectives, playing in the field that belongs to us, with responsibility, as a Government does. In the coming days we will look at how to try to minimize the effects of the extension, and we will also face this reality with the same effort and commitment, for the common good, from rigour and honesty. The most notable aspects of the extension scheme are: all expenditure items and commitments appropriations are extended for their amounts as at 31 December. Staff salaries may be increased by a maximum and provisional percentage identical to that of the previous year. The outstanding balance of the debt can be returned to increase by a maximum of the same amount as that authorised in the previous year. Guarantees may be provided at most for the same amount as in the previous year. During the extension period, the system of transfers, allocations and budgetary changes is the same as that of the previous year, and the contributions will be those fixed by the Basque Public Finance Council. Needless to say, from the department I run, we will try to put in place the appropriate measures so that the rest of the departments can develop as many projects as possible that were included in the 2019 budget. In addition, we would appreciate introducing some draft legislation to carry out certain measures that require legal support to be supplemented. As you know, we need the support of some group, and in this we will also redouble our efforts. To enable the rest of the companies to carry forward as far as possible, we will attempt to set up the necessary measures, and we shall choose to present a project of laws, certain measures which require the armor of the law to be started. As you know, we need help from a group, and we'll put all our efforts on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Goldzinos, made to the president about the political situation." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u13	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. I'll ask you without hysteria, calmly, with all my step. He has nerve. The Basque Country is at ease, and I will ask you from that step and ease of mind. From Spain, from Spain, from the State, there are black clouds. In our opinion, the political scene spreads in the state is extremely disturbing. There have been a series of elections, in which the rise to the right of the ultra right is apparent, and we shall still see the extent of it in the state, or whether it be or not, we do not know what will happen. The light is that the political frame of Spain, the political stage itself, will go to the right and to the recantators. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has a few months, and at first we might have had hopes or hopes that they are not being filled, and all this, as I have said, spreads a most alarming condition upon us. How can we face this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And Mr. Urruzuno, at the same time with perfect composure. Look, Mr. Enchantch, watching the next few months, it's clear what's the way to take it, and I'll read it to you as it's written: "A defense of the self-denial, to obtain the transfer of the jurisdictions of the Common-wealth which are not available, and to renew the State, as far as it is in our power." Getting the transfer of rights is the primary goal for this congress, even for the government. Before the end of the year, the Spanish Government must present us with a calendar and a plan, which we are now negotiating, to receive before December 28th, according to what you said here. Our object is to make a seductary bargain, and there is no doubt about it: Social Security We talked about this even on the day of Louisville, the right of economic management of Social Security, is still a priority, and he's still going on. It's in the state and it's a law to execute. Therefore, I am sure we shall also receive your protection, to obtain all that are our jurisdictions, our jurisdictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u17	You will have our support in all the agreements that are good for this people. We've had a chance these days. You've lost your chance, because there are two models that have been found face to face with two social models. A ideological collision has been found or given, and I repeat: in this agreement, the Basque People will be gathered there. The Basque Country won't be in this way. The Basque Country will not sign an agreement that is not good for the people and does not answer the wants of the people. And, as I have said, the situation is alarming, and the political stage is disturbing, and we join in it. This disturbing situation inevitably brings us certain wants. These wants ought to allow a consistent answer, and, as I have said, the Basque Country will profit from these. We have spoken of popular traditions from the very beginning, and we believe that this people will need them badly, when we see the political context that is being opened to us. A political context, where there are but few positive attitudes to us from Spain, and the best decisions to be taken by this people. In this sense there is no doubt: The Basque People will be in that gathering, just like they've been there before. And I repeat: I'm just trying to say that it's a fun shot, and without any nervousness, we have to realize that a sort of ideological collision has been given, two social models that have been found in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, it seems that you are really the one who is really nervous about the excitement. And you talk about the agreement and the popular alliance, and then we know from the first day that conversation, negotiation, and agreement are indispensable instruments for progress. I've been here almost six years, almost six years without the majority, and we've been working on that road, Mr. Urzuno. What I don't understand is how it's possible for us to state agreements and agreements in serious terms, but when you've had the chance, you, EH Collect, when you've had the chance to take a completely contrary attitude. You have preferred, Mr Urruzuno, the bubble, the comfort of those who are not mistaken because they do not make decisions. You have again missed an opportunity to help this country move forward, guarantee social services and help to those most in need, including pensioners. We are talking about competences, and you knew from the first day that the Basque Government does not have competence, does not have competence for pensions. The best example is that this Wednesday this Parliament has again claimed this competence for Euskadi with the vote in favour of your parliamentary group, Mr Urruzuno. In any case, the Government has shown a willingness to improve the income of pensioners who most need it through income-guarantee income, which is our competence, income-guarantee income and the way in which benefits are paid. You, with your immobilisation, hinder in practice that thousands of pensioners can charge 100 euros more per month in two years. They have succeeded in: frustrate that realistic and possible opportunity. For you it seems that negotiating is synonymous with imposing. Look, I have concluded my references to the budgetary negotiation process. We have the capacity to improve the extended proposals and respond to the real needs of the entire society and to arbitrate the measures raised so far, which are a commitment not to a political party but to society. I suggest the decision to contribute rigorously and realistically and responsibly to the country's progress and improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, together with the members of the Podemos to the president, about the supplementary system of pensions." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, good morning. Duela egun batzuk, a few days ago, Mr Azpiazu, Finance and Economics Councillor, was clearly betting on private supplementary pension schemes and asking for tax advantages for EPSVs. Mr. Urkullu, do you agree with the words EPSVi of Subazzu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, I agree with the winning stake for the public pension, which is what we voted the day before yesterday. This is the priority, the necessary foundation, and the end we receive: the guarantee of public or public pension. The government has shown the attitude of strengthening this base with certain actions. The ultimate example is in the budget proposal, Mr Martínnez. And I agree, too, that nearly 40 years ago, Euskadin started with the effort we're doing to improve EPSV system and strengthen it. The consent of so many companies, or of the public administration, is a pattern: Wake, partnership, future or friendhood Age, as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u25	When we hear about this subject, it's very curious. In the first place, when the Chief Subauzu is talking about the prosecution, we heard him last year, we saw him like that. Of course, seeing the production of 40% of this kind now would be a question against banking and Confebas-that is, an unthinkable thing for the government. But this government is a thing that is more agreeable to the patricians and to the great corporations than to listen to what the Basque Society demands. You don't listen to La Naval, you haven't heard about the education teams, and now you don't listen to what a pensioner's plan demands. Tomorrow they have convoked demonstrations for worthy public pensions, even against EPSV. And it just seems like they're doing it on purpose. That pensioners are asking for decent pensions? Well, you two had a deal with the PP. That retired people in this country say no to EPSVs? Well, there goes Mr. Rementeria and Mr. Azpiazu to make a closed defense of private pension plans. And it is that what is sought with these messages is very clear: it is to silence among citizens the idea that a public pension system is inviolable in itself, in order to advance its privatization. His Government and his party, the PNV, clearly did not trust the public, as much as yesterday we ended up voting in favour of the public; what then reflected were the facts. Of course, you much less trust a public pension system. Their model, as we have often heard, is a system that they cynically call mixed or public-private. And this sounds so apparent and striking, but it actually hides a very simple thing: a public system with minimum subsistence pensions of misery, and that whoever can and has had better jobs can complement them, that in the end it is a model that points to a profoundly insolidary, more unjust and more unequal society. And in the face of this model, what we do is to counter a strong public system, which is the priority of the institutions, which is well financed with fair contributions and taxes to those who have the most and those who earn the most; a system that is in the antepodes of their proposals to further lower the tax pressure on EPSVs. You will obviously not go, but tomorrow we will be, another day, with the pensioners of this country. We will be with the Basque unions that have joined the call. They've all joined. We will be in the demonstrations convened with a clear motto: EPSVei ez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u26	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martinez, I respect that you come here to make all the announcements you want to make and all the proclamations you want to make. The only thing I ask you, and there are already several interventions, is that when I tell you that you don't say truth, that at some point, at some point, you adjust to the reality of the things that are said and to the reality of the facts. In any case, the Basque Government is committed to the guarantee of the public pension system, and we have demonstrated this with facts: a vital minimum in terms of equity in income guarantee income; supplements in income guarantee income to the most needy, including pensioners; demand for the management of the social security economic system for a better guarantee of future public pensions, long before you came to this Parliament with parliamentary representation. Look, the EPSV, the supplementary pension provision, is a system that has been working properly in Euskadi since the 1980s, a system that always works in a framework of agreement between the company and the trade union representation, Mr Martínez. It always works as a complement, without questioning, in any case, the public system. It works well in many companies and business groups, and also in the public administration, always according to trade unions. And I would like to remind you, Mr Martínez, that your group has called for the recovery of the Itzarri agreements, your group. You propose this supplementary system, and that is not why you question the public pension system. Well, so are we, Mr. Martinez, just like you. It is the responsibility of the Basque Government to regulate EPSVs, and we will continue to work; first, in a change of values. It is up to us to do pedagogy and move that EPSVs are an important social value. This work must be done with economic and social actors, and also with parliamentary groups; important social value of EPSV, which you demand for public officials, Mr Martínez. Secondly, also to do pedagogy in an appropriate design of incentives, always in collaboration with the general boards, with the aim of making taxation more effective for middle and low incomes. Look, Mr Martínez, we share the objective of guaranteeing the public pension system. I suggest that you carefully and seriously consider the priority of moving forward, too, in the generalization of supplementary social provision, because it is about extending to society as a whole the same model that you defend for people working in the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Euscal Social Socialists of the United States had been made to occupy the plans of the environment, the Plant, and the Housing Department of Housing, as to fulfilling the ends of the vital program." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The Bizigune programme, from its inception, is a programme that has concrete objectives and has always been focused on strengthening the rental policies promoted by different governments. We cannot deny that it is a programme that has been on the rise in recent times and that, even in this very House, pending, at the time, the ruling by the Constitutional Court on a number of articles relating to the Housing Act, which were aimed at the whole definition of what was law... forgiveness, empty housing, we have decided on this matter to strengthen and continue to support the Government in the development of this programme. It is true that, given that the subjective right to a home is already a reality, pending the corresponding decree, the construction of new official protective housing intended for rent should be combined with the acquisition of a private housing stock also intended for rent. Uninhabited dwellings must be captured in order to be used for this purpose. Alokabide is doing a good job on this, and certainly a good number is being collected. And it is logical and, moreover, it is right that this program is being strengthened from Alokabide. And it is logical, because, on the basis of a common sense question, if only and exclusively we were to promote rented housing on the part of this government, it would be, in addition to much more expensive, much more complicated; first, because of a question of time-limits – we have to bear in mind that the construction of housing is not done overnight – and, secondly, because of a question of investment. – it's so much more expensive to build them than to promote rental policies through these types of programs. You have data and they indicate this; that is to say, promoting social housing, of course, from the government itself costs about EUR 120,000, which is obviously much cheaper if we meet the objectives and if we meet the conditions through which they are launched or taken out of the housing rental market through the Bizigune programme, taking into account that more or less the Department costs an average of EUR 4,600 per year. Therefore, given the relevance of such programmes, given the objectives set by this Government with regard to the implementation of rental housing policies, I would like to know what degree of compliance there has been with regard to the objectives set by this Government in relation to the Bizigune programme this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, in the budgets for this year 2018 we set ourselves an ambitious goal: to reach the 5,400 houses in the Bizigune program, when last December we had 4,798 and the context of the rental market does not make it exactly easy for us. As you know, there has been a continuous increase in the price of rents, especially in the capitals, which implies a large holdicap for Bizigune, which has an income ceiling of 600 euros per month. And if to this is added the impact of the tourist flats and a very low rental offer, the difficulty to capture homes from private individuals to put them for social rent is evident. But, in spite of everything, the program is working, and it is doing so because, in addition to a reasonable price, we offer the owners security in the collection of rent and, above all, the guarantee that they will recover the apartment under the same conditions as they delivered it. We have made a very intense publicity campaign this year and it has had effect. At the end of last month the number of Bizigune homes managed by Alokabide was already 5,211, which is already an absolute record in this program. I think some bet I won. For it to have a comparison element, the previous maximum figure was reached in 2013, with a total of 5,174 houses, but the circumstances were not by far as adverse as now, and besides the maximum income offered by Bizigune then was 600 euros; that is, the amount that we have recovered this year 2018 after having been until 2016 at 450 euros maximum and 525 euros in 2017. We hope that by the end of December, taking into account the offers being evaluated, the number of dwellings incorporated into the programme will exceed 5,250. We will therefore be close to the goal we set ourselves for this year. By the end of November, not only had the number of floors of the programme been maintained, but it had increased by 481, by 11.5 %. In addition to renewals and new inclusions, 1,287 contracts have been signed in the last 12 months. And what is significant is that the continuity rate, the percentage of renewal of contracts over six years, which in 2016 was 55%, today is 75%, which shows the growing confidence of the owners in this programme, which we want to continue to expand. We already have flats of the Bizigune program in 130 municipalities of Euskadi: 70 municipalities in Bizkaia, 51 in Gipuzkoa and 19 in Araba, and we are driving, as you know, the new Bizigune municipal program to capture free houses that are owned by the municipalities. In short, this is a programme that has a future and that we have a political will to push forward with a view to having real opportunities to offer citizens housing and to fulfil our obligation under the Housing Act to promote subjective rights. And, finally, I would also like to say that, thanks to Bizigune and the new impetus to the construction of public housing, the rental park that manages Alokabide has already reached another milestone: to exceed 13,000 homes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, of the affair of the university of Araba." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. Very good morning. I confess to you that I am seriously concerned, and I want to convey my concern to you today about your responsibility as a lehendakari; to you and to your Government. And I want to refer to the most serious events that took place a few days ago on the campus of Álava, at the university. A young man was cornered by a group of 15 hooded. They kicked him on the floor, gave him a scare, sent him to the hospital and attacked him for defending his freedom, for expressing his ideas, for manifesting his dissent in the environment in which he has to live every day in college. I want to tell you that the facts are very serious. They happen around here. Maybe we want to minimize everything. People say that this is an isolated fact, but it is not an isolated fact; what is an isolated fact is that there is a person who has the courage to plant face the radicals who want to take over the public space in the university. What is an isolated fact is that our young people can come, see, go to university, which is the most important way that one has at that age to participate in the public space, in the social space, which is the most important experience that we have in our formative age, to go to that public space and see that it is an isolated fact to be able to manifest freedom of expression in full, to manifest and to exercise freedom of conscience. That happens in the Basque Country, and it's not an isolated fact. What had happened before in college? The Civil Guard entered the Basque university in June, entered that faculty, on the same campus in Álava, in an operation ordered by the National Court. Several young people were arrested, material seized. From there were organized acts of homage to ETA criminals. What's going on in college now? Because, do you know how the University of the Basque Country reacted then? He asked the government delegate to explain why the Civil Guard had gone there to defend the freedom of all. What's going on now? If you go around the campus of Álava, that Faculty of Letters in which I studied – I also remember the environment then when I studied – it is clear that the environment has improved somewhat but does not seem to be too much for the exercise of freedoms by students. You will see it full of posters, banners to support the messages of the left abertzale. Those banners say that this is our space, here we impose our law and the one who enters here will have to pass by; he will not be able to think in a different way. What happened this week? This week, at the university, these groups, the same groups linked to the left abertzale, organize some days where they invite individuals who are condemned for the exaltation of terrorism, and that is the message in which they want to educate young people. This is all very serious. I have to ask you, to demand, not to have good feelings, because I do not doubt your good feelings, but to implement a policy that, in fact, guarantees that freedom is widening and is full in all areas of the Basque Country, especially for the younger ones. And now I ask you then: what pedagogy do we do from this Parliament when with your votes and those of EH Bildu it is said that the Constitution is illegitimate and undemocratic? What are we telling you about the Constitution that guarantees these rights? What are we saying when we agree here that Basques have two categories, national and citizens? What are we saying? See how he has stayed after this adventure of agreements with the left abertzale: enchanted, in the dead end where they took him. They're very worried because they don't have budgets. It's okay with that, that'll be all right, but what do we do now, Mr. lehendakari, what do we do now? I have tried to reduce tension and collaborate during these years, and I say to him: collaborate to broaden freedom and to make a real project of the future for our young people in Basque. Think about it this Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, taking advantage of the Batan passing through Gasteiz, I reflect every day. And don't worry, it's not a big deal, we've already answered both the Finance Adviser and I in the first two questions of this parliamentary session in relation to the budgets, something that you have self-discarded, Mr Alonso; you have self-discarded for extra-budgetary reasons. Look, two weeks ago a young student was assaulted by a group of intolerants for the mere fact of defending his ideas, and I reiterate the assessment I had occasion to convey in public response. I express to this young man on behalf of the Government and Basque society all our solidarity and support; I express the strongest condemnation of this unacceptable expression of violence and intolerance. We are facing an aggression that has to do with the inability to accept the plurality that constitutes us as a democratic society. Its only cause is intolerance in the face of the different. No political current today justifies or legitimizes such aggression, Mr Alonso, none. He asks me about the state of freedoms in the Basque Country. For look, according to the last sociometer, the degree of satisfaction with the functioning of democracy in Euskadi is at the highest point in the historical series. It is clear that the state of freedoms in Euskadi is different and better. The institutions respond; the Ertzaintza has arrested two people and will continue to investigate. The university has mobilized, Mr. Alonso. Justice will act. Political and institutional representation is an absolute condemnation. The vast majority of our society defends the freedom of expression of those who think differently. This aggression does not jeopardize the state of our freedoms, because we agree to prevent, condemn and prosecute such acts. And, indeed, aggression has been serious; now, this aggression, for me, Mr Alonso, I tell you with absolute sincerity, is not the symptom of a growing phenomenon that puts the state of freedoms in check in Euskadi. On the contrary: it is only concite rejection and it has no choice to hold back in our society. So, from the first moment, we thought this pursuit was very serious. All the organizations and political parties have completely disapproved, the university has been mobilized, the edge has studied the subject, and has arrested two people. This has been a serious event; unacceptable, which is not to be repeated, which has received the reproach of all. And institutionally we work from the Ertzaintza to prevent and investigate aggressions, to respond when these events occur, stop and bring their perpetrators to justice. We work to promote a culture of coexistence, respect and tolerance. Critical reflection on the past is fundamental to the delegitimization of the use of violence. We work to ensure that any aggression, any expression of violence, or the crime of hatred, or intolerance, obtain a united and unequivocal response to defend pluralism, freedom and human rights. I am sure, Mr Alonso, that we will agree on the necessary unity in this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpation, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemus team to the president, the responsibility for Naval and the Left. " Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u37	Thank you, Mrs. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Lehendakari, I am asking you today about your responsibility in the Naval crisis. For the past year and a half, our political group has been demanding a real commitment to employment and industrial activity. He's demanding a real commitment for Sestao and the Left Margin. And he's been calling for an active role, a leadership in the La Naval crisis. Our opposition has tried to be critical and constructive, and I hope that we have succeeded, but the lack of response from his Government has caused us deep disappointment. I would say that it has not only disappointed our group, but it has also been a disappointment – I would say historic – for the Left Margin, at least at the height of the disappointment that meant for the Left Margin the closure of Bizkaia High Horns and the closure of the Babcock Wilcox. The closure of Altos Hornos occurred as a result of the oil crisis of the 1970s. The closure of the Babcock was the result of globalization and relocations in the 1990s. The closure of La Naval, however, is going to occur, it is going to be produced by corporate greed, by the remains of the greed of the orgy of the ball that we still have from the 2000s. I read that the current owners of La Naval are prosecuted for unfair administration, for the use of privileged information, for the adoption of abusive agreements, for acts against the free competition of the market, for crimes of misappropriation and corporate crime. And as a result of this mismanagement of La Naval, we face what is possibly going to be the closure of the company. But this is not one more closure; this is the And this closure makes you, as lehendakari, and Councilwoman Tapia, risk going into history as those who collaborated on the closure of La Naval. And this may seem little to you, but you can still mention, if you like, in the Left Margin the word Solchaga, to see what Solchaga sounds like. The worst thing about this closure, unlike that of Altos Hornos and the Babcock, is that this is an avoidable closure. The closures of the Babcock and Altos Hornos were due to global crises; it was inevitable that these companies would close. But it is not inevitable that it closes the Naval; it is not. It is not inevitable that it closes a viable company, which between 2007 and 2013 won 50 million euros; it is not inevitable, because it is due to poor business management; and it is not inevitable because, moreover, today, the shipbuilding sector in Europe is beating record profits and record orders. This is why La Naval's closure will be caused by a bad management, and the ship has been put into trouble, and those who have entered, the owners must leave the office. Of course, that's not easy. You have to build a strategy to remove these owners and put others on. Unfortunately, the Department of Economic Development has not had that strategy, but has not formed that strategy. And unfortunately, I say, because we have jurisdictions, because you have tools, as well as resources. What has been lacking is commitment and political will. In a word, what has been missing is more leadership. And our question is why you didn't have that leadership. Why that commitment to La Naval has not been made, why this active role has not been adopted. On the contrary, what we have had has been a passive attitude of waiting for the investor, given that the Naval is not like transferring a fishery. To articulate the transfer of the owners of La Naval, a very complex solution is needed – you know, your advisor knows it – from both the legal and the business point of view, and the Basque Government had the capacity to do so and has not done so. And the same thing as this passive attitude is incomprehensible, this lack of commitment, letting go of time, I'd say it's bloody. Before the competition, the competition had to be prepared; during the competition, nothing could be done, because there was competition; and after the competition, the liquidation and closure arrive, without them having done anything. Alongside these two issues, I am also concerned about the contempt shown by your Government for the democratic will of this House. A motion was adopted in this House last October, a unanimous motion by this House calling for the establishment of a tripartite table and a report supporting the purchase of La Naval. Well, at the first meeting of the tripartite table, at the meeting with Minister Reyes Maroto, the councillor did not attend, the deputy councillor did not attend, the director did not attend, the director of the SPRI did not attend; the director of exploitation of the SPRI; the fifth escalator did not attend. That's not a commitment to La Naval, Mr. Lehendakari. And instead of making a back-up report, a back-up report, they've made a report designed to rule out the purchase. Mr Casanova said, he was described by Mr Casanova in his question a couple of weeks ago as an entrepreneurial report, an entrepreneurial report. It has had to be the staff themselves who hires a report that supports this purchase, who hires and pays a report that supports this purchase. I am ending with two reflections, Mr Lehendakari; two reflections that seem to me to be important and relevant. The first is about the role that the staff has played in this crisis. You often say that the opposition groups have it very easy when we make the speeches, because we have the rank of our favor. I'd like to see a businessman with a firm in difficulty, see him in the stands with a T-shirt that says "save my company." I would have liked to see the owners of La Naval at the demonstration last day 1, along with 20,000 people, saying that we want La Naval to be saved. Why aren't they there? Why is the businessman never there? Why are the workers always the ones who ask for the company to be saved? Because the only ones, the only ones looking for La Naval's root and future are the staff. And yet there are never prizes or recognition for the templates; there is never the template of the year, as there is the entrepreneur of the year or the entrepreneur of the month. But this staff also has a special circumstance, and you know it. This staff has secured the post even if the factory is closed. The virtue of this staff is that it is not fighting alone for La Naval; they are fighting for a whole town and for a whole region, for an auxiliary industry and for the 2,000 families that are going to stay out. And, therefore, it is incomprehensible that before a Naval that is showing commitment, active role and leadership, you are showing quite the opposite, quite the opposite, Mr Lehendakari. I will tell you one thing: the consequences of this passive attitude, the consequences of this lack of commitment, the consequences of this contempt for Parliament is that, sooner or later, citizens end up undermining their confidence, both in institutions and in democracy. And sooner or later, when people's problems are not solved, they end up appearing tomorrow as Trump, as Vox or as the National Front, saying that if the European Union prohibits a government from acquiring a company, that if an autonomous government is unable to acquire a company to save it, that then what we want the European Union for, what we want the autonomous governments for. And I tell you, Mr. lehendakari, that Sestao is right now the Basque Detroit, it is the Basque Detroit, it is a population that has lost a third of its population from 78 to here, it is a population that has half a per capita income that Getxo, and that has a year and a half of life expectancy less Sestao than Getxo. And right now in Sestao there are a lot of people who are looking forward to you taking on your responsibility. I'm not asking you about what you haven't done in the future, sorry, what you've done in the past, but what you're going to do in the future. I am asking you, please, not to let La Naval fall; live up to the historic challenge that is assuming this, fight for the industry of La Naval, fight for the industry of the Left Margin, fight for our regions and fight for their people. And if at some point you lose your strength, if at some point you don't know how to do it, I ask you to look at the staff, look at the step and be inspired by it to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning. It is not the first time that we have spoken of this, Mr. Becerra; it will not be the last, I think, but without any trouble. You point out, Mr Becerra, in the justification of your inquiry that the industrial development of Ezkerraldea and of the whole country goes through the maintenance of the activity of the shipyard of La Naval and its auxiliary industry; you say so literally. And I must point it out – it will allow me – that the industrial development of Ezkerraldea and of the country as a whole goes through a lot of activities, many actions, beyond La Naval. I wish we could be talking about a strong, active Naval, with work, aft wind – let me express it – but let us be realistic and really attend to what exists. The activity of La Naval has been stopped since the summer of 2017, as you well know, and yet the industrial activity of Euskadi has continued to grow, continues to grow. Therefore, we are concerned, yes, busy too, and committed to each and every one of the problems of this country's industry, not just of La Naval; of each and every one of them. And that is good, it is good that, moreover, from Parliament, we are talking about one of these companies over and over again, but, moreover, it is up to the public representatives not to be trembling, not to distort, and to avoid contributing to the ceremony of confusion. I think you'll agree with me on that. But, still, if you think so, let's focus on the activity of the Left Margin, which you were also talking about; the naval sector and the activity of the Left Margin. A sector, by the way, in which we have been working for a long time, not only since now, because at the beginning of the last parliamentary term we find ourselves with a very relevant element that affected and placed in a critical situation the whole of our naval sector – by the way, the private naval sector, I am not going to say alone, but of the most buoyant of the whole state – and it was the problem of the tax And it is up to us all to assume our responsibility, each from the field in which it is located. And you said very well: "Everyone from his skills and from the performance he has maintained". But let us be realistic; to each one, what he has to do. And he asks me if we're leaving, or he asks the lehendakari if we're going to commit to this industry, to the naval sector and, in particular, to the company La Naval. And the answer is only one, and it is, of course; but not because you ask me, and you ask us to the government, but because we are already doing it. I add further: it is up to us all to assume responsibilities, to each agent from their point of view and from their competences, and to us, of course, from our own. It is our responsibility to work with the naval sector, mainly in four areas of action, in which we are working – and I want to insist – since 2013. First, in the support to a sector that also has to make a very relevant technological development to be competitive in the future, to introduce innovative ships and services; in the internationalization of the same, because – you well said – the sector in Europe is buoyant and also in Euskadi, it is also generally in Euskadi and in the whole state. We are working at the hand of all that sector, which is gathered at the Basque Maritime Forum, because it is not only the shipbuilding industry itself, but the whole of the auxiliary industry, to which you also referred, and to which we must also put in the latest technological trend. And, in addition, offer consultancy services that allow them to finance all those ships that have to be put into operation, which is not baladi and you know it well too. And here we also have the accompaniment of an association, which is Pymar, where both the state and the shipyards themselves and the Basque Government, together with the governments of Galicia, Asturias (where there are also private shipyards), are working. So, well, it's an element in which we have a trajectory; we're not born yesterday, and we have a trajectory. But we are not even born in 2013; this association and this way of working has existed for a long time. We will therefore continue to work in this direction with the shipbuilding sector as a whole. It is a cluster, partners in a cluster at the Basque Maritime Forum, where, in addition, working with the energy sector, they are also expanding and diversifying their activities, and you know it well. Therefore, the result of the recovery or the result of the work has been the recovery of activity in Euskadi and also in La Naval. It is not that the company has been closed or is going to close or is in this situation, or we are in a compromised situation, as you want to see, as a result of no contracts. On the contrary: there were contracts that could not be faced by multiple circumstances, in which I am not going to enter, because, as you rightly say, I believe that it is not in the past that we have to look at, but rather that we have to look to the future. I also believe that, from the groups of the Committee on Economic Development, you have had the opportunity to visit how the shipbuilding sector is located, how it works, what technologies are being applied. Therefore, it is a sector that is buoyant, that is working and that is doing well. Now, let us focus on La Naval, which is one of those companies, which is certainly relevant, but one of those companies and on the Left Margin. Well, what we are doing, in addition to the Naval, because the Left Margin is broad and, as you also know, there has been a paper in this Parliament analysing what needs to be done in these disadvantaged areas, especially in the Left Margin and also in the Oarsoaldea area. As a result of the three-year work of this paper, there have been two elements, two important tasks for the Government: one of them was the Disadvantaged Areas Shock Plan, which was presented, which presented a – perhaps the name is not the right one – is a short-term action plan, during what was left of the year 2018 and 2019, while a strategic plan is being drawn up, which has also been launched. A plan with 18 actions and 64 million euros, which were planned, most of them, in the 19th, but which started in the 18th, and to which we will certainly try to give way in the best possible way, so that they can be carried out. Therefore, important actions to industrialize the area, but, as you also said, to advocate for training, for decent housing and for many other actions that, together, must be carried out in the Left Margen. Let us focus on La Naval, and you know it perfectly well: at this moment in which we are – by the way, you know it too – yesterday there was another tripartite table, that the important thing, in that case, is what is on the table and what needs to be worked on. And there are two elements that are key to our judgment. In the first place, to give continuity to this company, it is necessary to yes or yes one or several private investors that then allow a public accompaniment... And we can discuss whether the government can enter in a majority or a minority; we have sufficient reports to confirm that we cannot go beyond 50%, but it is a separate debate. First and foremost, looking for an investor or investors that will allow continuity and that will replace – at this time they are no longer managers – the previous property. And at that stage we met. And at the same time put in place two other actions, which were also discussed yesterday. That the guarantees of those workers who have guarantee back to SEPI be implemented in the best possible way, in a flexible way that allows us to recover them when the activity in La Naval becomes a reality. And for those who are left without that guarantee, because there are also them, what planning we are going to put in place, what training we are going to put in place if necessary, and what actions we are going to do to ensure that they have continuity in the future. These are the two most relevant aspects at the moment; it is the only way to give continuity to this company. And the Government, of course, together with the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry and the Government of the State through the Ministry of Industry, is fully convinced and acting 100% to make that a reality. At this moment, looking for those investors, attracting them and trying to form them, and I will use – there is not Mr Damborenea – but articulate that proposal that allows the Naval to be a reality in the future, an industrial reality with workload, with guarantee of continuity and that allows the auxiliary sector with which it is also working from the Basque Maritime Forum to have the best of the futures from now on. Those are the lines of action, and there is no other action. And from our 100% responsibility on each and every line of action, that is our commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u41	Mrs Tapia, may you answer me and not the lehendakari doesn't surprise me, but I'm sorry. I am sorry because it really realizes the responsibility of this Government with regard to the Naval. That you have devoted six of the ten minutes to talking about the naval industry instead of La Naval, the shipyard of La Naval, I am not surprised either, but I am concerned, because it is clear that you are at something else. That they are to something else is their legitimate right, but in the Left Margin they are to La Naval, in the Left Margin they are to La Naval, and in Sestao they are to La Naval. You're on to something else; they're on the Naval. They have done nothing, Mrs Tapia, they have done nothing this year; all they have done is lack the truth. They began by saying that he had sent them a letter, a letter, the European Commission, warning them about the entrance to La Naval. They did not send it to you; they sent it to the Government of Spain. They later said that the European Commission had banned entry into La Naval. It has not been banned; there is no European Commission opinion on the Naval. They later said that there were limitations because the Naval had already received aid. There is no limitation for the Naval to receive aid as a result of having been from SEPI. They said later that public capital could not be entered. You can enter the public capital. And they said it couldn't be more than 50% and today it says yes, it can be discussed if it can be more or less than 50%. Of course it can be more than 50%. Finally today, year and a half later, we know, indeed we know, because there is a report from an expert firm in trade and competition law, which says that the problem is not the majority participation of public capital in La Naval. And you have to admit it very much to your regret, and this is a real shame. This is a real shame, how they have had to rectify their position by pushing the staff and by pushing the opposition. And what they can do, and I'll tell you very quickly, what they can do is acquire the assets of the dragon, they can make them available to Navantia to convince the shipowner to get in there; they can do it. They can also bid through any public undertaking or public fund, for example SOCADE, for La Naval's productive assets and then transfer them, in fact, to a public-private undertaking; they can do so as well. They can recover contracts lost by La Naval to make a plan of viability, and they can even go by the hand of the ministry, the ministry and the Government of Spain, to look for new contracts because, for example, the French shipyards of cruises do not give enough with the orders they have, and already the Government of Spain is planning to be able to do so in Cadiz. They can do many things, but they have done none, and this is a real shame. And what surprises me is that, on top of that, they counter what they haven't made a shock plan for the entire region. You're right: the name doesn't do you justice. The name put it in a newspaper: plan of little shock, plan of little shock; that is the plan that you have approved, that is the plan that you have approved. And in this plan the only thing they do is a compendium of already existing departures, among which the main one is a departure for the southern variant railway, so that the people of the Left Margen see how the goods enter the port and leave for Bilbao, without having any industrial activity to dedicate to there. What they're looking for is to double a town and a county and make them Amazon parcel distributors, which is the only thing that's going to be left for them in the future. And I am extremely sorry, I am extremely sorry that, to this inquiry that I have made to you, once again in good faith, an invitation to follow, to try to unlock the situation, to try to join the model effort that the template is making in that sense, you only do what you do is to continue reading your book as if nothing happened. I say it once again: when institutions turn their backs on people's problems, when institutions do not give the answer, we are opening the door to totalitarianism that will or will put democracy on the ground when it is not able to respond to the challenges that lie ahead. Plant it, because really this answer that you have given makes history pass through the big door, I assure you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u43	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I believed that we participated in a government in which the objectives are usually common, decisions are taken in the Governing Council and that the responsibility we transmit here is usually shared, passed on by the person who transmits it. Therefore, responsibility in this and in all subjects, the maximum, and at the maximum level. Second of all, we're on to something else, no. We're all in this one. That's our goal, and in the Left Margin are to La Naval and to all the problems of each and every municipality, because they are more than one, and there are many problems different from those you say we don't answer and that we just put on the table the southern variant. Well, let's not miss the truth, please. You analyze the entire document, and in addition to the existing items, there are 64 million extra, 64 million more in one year. Well, it's not 640, it's true, but it's 64 million extra for the establishment of new companies, for the generation of jobs, for the start-up of a new technology park. Infinity of actions in housing and so on, and do not say no, Mr Bollain, because you were not in the committee or have not read it; you analyze it and you will see that there is all that. He tells me we're twisting and missing reality. It's just that the hemeroteca is usually so clumsy... You analyze what is said, what we said, and you will notice that we have been absolutely consistent in everything that was said; that the first time it was said that the government could take that participation and was willing to do so, the lehendakari said in an interview in September 2017. You look at him, look at him, because I tell him millions of times and he's there. The first time it was said and the first time as a result of which the European Commission – yes, it is true, but the European Commission is what it has – comes into contact with the states, and we have not yet been there. Then, it is true, it comes into contact with the ministry, with Madrid, and from the ministry we are referred to that request for information, to which we have to respond. That's right. We have no problem saying it; we said it from the beginning. You talk about the reports. Report, by chance, the one the government does is of part, but the one you have in your hand shouldn't be of part, right? Well, then, there are more reports. There are more reports from international cabinets, from an institution where we participate governments and the private sector, which says exactly the following: "To the extent that it acts as a private investor, in terms of amount, price, profitability, among others, it would be possible for a public entity to participate in the share capital of the new company. "We are making an exact report for La Naval – with all the background it has, by the way; not a generic one – along with one or more private investors. In order to facilitate the accreditation that the public entity's investment has been made under market conditions, it would be appropriate to consider the following aspects – three in particular –: "One. The public entity should participate in a percentage equal to or less than that assumed by the private investor. "Two. The economic conditions of the investment, mainly capital and dividend participation, should be in the same terms as those accepted by the private investor. "Three. The political rights of the public entity in the new undertaking should be proportional to its participation in the share capital." And in those terms it is that we are going to work, that we are working on and that, by the hand of a private investor, that, by the way, we have to remember that we always have to want to be with him or with them, we will participate. Those are the conditions. Government of the State, Bizkaia District Council and Basque Government. Under those premises, yes. But let's remember: there has to be a private investor with a project that guarantees the future, and two, the private investor or investors we need you to go with them. Therefore, yes and maximum commitment, maximum level. No problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Edourne García Troublembe, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos team, about the pay-maker in the laundry sector." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari jauna, the cleaning workers of police stations and judicial offices and juvenile centres in Gipuzkoa have been on an indefinite strike since 19 September. The strike aims to eliminate the wage gap with regard to road public cleaning in Gipuzkoa, reaching an agreement in the implementing agreements. We would like to know what measures it will put in place to eliminate the wage gap in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs García, first step: inspection. In relation to this conflict, there are no complaints of direct gender-based wage discrimination. Second measure: mediation. The Department of Labour and Social Security of the Government has been constantly informed of this labour dispute. On 19 December, i.e. next week, the parties involved – enterprise and trade union representation – were called to a meeting to move forward on a solution. And third measure: structural response. On 27 November, the Governing Council approved the strategy and operational plans to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u49	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express our support, from Elkarrekin Podemos, for the workers who are in struggle and who, after 87 days, continue on strike, with the sole aim of eradicating the wage gap in the cleaning service of the police stations and judicial buildings in Gipuzkoa. On the other hand, it seems important to us to point out that the departments of Labour and Justice and Security of the Basque Government have not wanted to meet with the convoking unions, assuming their responsibility in the conflict. But the most serious thing is that, to date, the main concern of these departments has been to increase the minimum services and allow for the maintenance of cleaning, illegally replacing strikers. A Department of Labour and Justice which, on a double basis, is a judge and a party to this matter. It should be explained that, in the cleaning sector, wage differences between men and women can in some cases amount to between 3,500 and 6,000 euros, depending on agreements and territories, which is 35% less wage. This wage inequality is a serious social problem. Its origin is in the segregation of work by gender, in the unfair distribution of income and, in many cases, in the budgetary policies of cuts and tenders to the low, taking advantage of the situation. Not solving it also makes it a political problem, precisely one of the issues, together with many others, that provoked the strike on 8 March. And it is important to say that the externalised cleaning sector dependent on the administrations is an obvious example: on the one hand, a 100% outsourced sector of the administration, masculinised, such as road public cleaning More than 80% of workers are men; and, on the other hand, sub-contracts for cleaning buildings and premises, which are completely feminized, where more than 95% of workers are women. In this way, the wage gap in the cleaning of police stations reaches 13% and, in the case of judicial offices and juvenile centres, 7%; a gender wage discrimination that is financed by public funds, with the money of everyone. In some sub-contracts dependent on the administration, wage-equalization processes were obtained in previous years, such as the cleaning of Osakidetza, cleaning of the deputies and some municipalities. We have the example. We can follow him. Women workers who clean the police stations and courts in Gipuzkoa take 87 days to achieve the same goal: 23,183 euros of annual minimum wage per full-time worker. We assume that this Government does not consider it excessive; however, the conflict has not been resolved. Specifically, the Department of Safety and Security is currently preparing specifications for the bidding of the cleaning service in police stations; it is a good opportunity to resolve at least part of this aggravation and injustice. Is it so difficult for them to include social clauses to eliminate the wage gap, such as those that are constantly bragging about? Because the laws allow it, and it's a matter of political will. It is of the utmost gravity and inconsistency that your Government is propaganda that it is acting to eliminate the wage gap in Euskadi, and yet, in areas where it has responsibility and competence, they are not moving a finger to do so, but the contrary. They are trying to prevent this strike from taking place in order to maintain that injustice and discrimination, and insist on promoting equality policies, but in no case do they have to do with reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs García, it goes, it comes, it goes, it goes, it comes, it comes, it comes, from the point of view to the structural. Well, I've explained how we have the first inspection measure; the second, mediation; the third, the structural response. The first, I insist, is no complaint of direct gender pay discrimination, Mrs García. The second, the Department of Labour and Social Security of the Government has been constantly informed of this labour dispute. On 19 December, I reiterate to you, the parties involved –business and trade union representation – have been called to a meeting to advance a solution. And let's move on to the structural. We have made a diagnosis of the situation and evolution of the wage gap; we have made a contrast with academic experts, women's associations. You'll have everything you want, ma'am, but this is the evidence. We have been with agencies and institutions; we have collected recommendations from economic, social and citizenship actors; and the result is an operational strategy and plan that comes into force on 1 January. This work responds to the request of this Parliament, to the request of this Basque Parliament, and we have also presented it to the Social Dialogue Bureau and the Labour Relations Council. We therefore act and we will continue to act. The problem is structural. Horizontal segregation leads women to lower paid jobs; the more feminized sectors generally enjoy worse conditions; and the strategy arises, among other issues, to turn this reality around, the reality you appeal to, to turn this reality around. And we are dealing with the most specific issues such as the concept of work of equal value. I urge you also to reflect on the work of equal value and the comparisons you may be making. And this is one of the challenges of the strategy: defining, identifying those works of equal value. We act. The operational plan has four axes of action, 20 guidelines, 60 concrete measures and a forecast of €283 million in 2019 and 2020 to advance the reduction of the wage gap. First axis: reduce wage-hour inequality through, for example, strengthening inspection. The second is to reduce inequality in working hours by encouraging the incorporation into collective agreements and enterprise agreements of measures to promote equality and reconciliation. Third axis: education and social awareness, with initiatives such as encouraging the centres to incorporate a gender perspective into their actions. Fourth axis: business and trade union awareness. It lays down social clauses, to which you have also referred, social clauses to prioritise companies that have plans or measures to promote equality. The path of equality is being and is going to be long, it is going to be long. I assure you that the Government will continue to take measures and work towards the eradication of wage discrimination. We will act with determination, seriousness and continuity, evaluating the measures and improving each day. This I believe is the most effective way to respond to a priority, structural objective for the present and future of our country: equality between women and men. And I hope that there will be a solution to the specific issue next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrogation, made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the lawmakers of the Basque Groups of the Worlds, made for the development of Economics and the chief department of the Subjugations, as to the measures of reorganizing the re-tractable energy in Esquilimia Err." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, good morning. I call on you on behalf of the People's Group, with reference to the Government's measures to boost renewable energy. The Basque Government has been drawing up energy plans since the 1980s, mainly motivated by the fact that the Basque Country has an industrial sector with a strong presence of basic industries – steel, chemicals, paper mills – which are highly consuming of energy, energy from fossil fuels, with a high dependence on oil in these sectors, and we all have reference to the oil crisis, which affected supplies, energy prices, and the impact this would have on the Basque industry. As I said, the Basque Government, since its first years of evolution, and with the aim of reducing dependence on oil, has defined three basic objectives for Basque energy policy. On the one hand, it defined energy saving and efficiency policies: diversifying energy sources, betting on natural gas as an alternative to oil in industry and also in the residential and commercial sector, and developing renewable energies. In addition, it creates the Basque Energy Agency, with the task of managing all key energy policy instruments and providing it with effective governance in terms of planning, control and monitoring. These three objectives of saving, efficiency and diversification of energy sources and development of renewable energy sources include environmental impact analysis and sustainable electricity supply, sustainability of supply. And to these tools, which we have called Euskadi's energy strategies, we are incorporating the percentages of compliance, which are determined by the commitments agreed at European level and also at world level, with the different climate summits. Marked commitments and which, as an autonomous community, we are obliged to fulfil, because we approved it in the Basque Climate Change Strategy 2050, where we said: zero oil consumption for energy uses in 2050; reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050; achieve in 2050 a 40% renewable energy consumption on final consumption; and fully disconnect from fossil fuels and zero net greenhouse gas emissions over the course of this century, through renewable energy as the only energy supply. That's what we said in the 2050 Strategy. As we can see, in the Basque Autonomous Community, we unload our commitments to climate change, to a very important extent, in renewable energy. And what is our reality? As regards energy consumption, we can say that the consumption of natural gas and petroleum products has been reduced, but it still accounts for more than 78 % of the total energy demand of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We have a very important counterclockwise task to fulfil the climate change strategy. Also in the development and deployment of renewable energy in the Basque Country, the share of renewables reaches 7% of final energy consumption, 13% if we include imported renewable electricity. This share of renewables is divided into: biomass, 67,8 %; biofuels, 15 %; hydroelectric, 8,6 %; wind, 6,9 %; and solar, 1,8 %. In the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy, we have set ourselves the goal of increasing the use of renewable energy by 126 %, which would mean reaching a final consumption share of renewable energy by 21 % by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, although the development of renewable energies has been and is one of the three basic pillars of Basque energy policy since the beginning of autonomy, the reality is that we are making very little progress in this area. We have not, by far, achieved the stated objectives. Wind energy is the energy with the greatest production capacity in our autonomous community as renewable energy; that is what we have all said. You, Madam Counsellor, have also stated this in this rostrum. The first wind farm was Elgea, which I know very well, because it is very close to my place of residence; it started in 2000. The Sectoral Territorial Wind Energy Plan was approved in 2002. The aim of this plan, initially, was to launch 1,300 megawatts in 29 locations; finally, 11 sites with a power of 377 megawatts were proposed, and what was actually executed from that PTS were the four parks of Elgea-Urkilla, Oiz and Badaia, and the minipark of Punta Lucero –153 megawatts – which is what we have right now. This PTS generated a broad social and inter-institutional rejection. This House, without going further, unanimously approved in 2009, suspending the processing of the parks provided for in this PTS, and urged the Government to seek a broad inter-institutional and social consensus on wind policy, its location and its environmental assessment. In addition, the Basque Government was urged to draw up the second wind energy STP and, in fact, in 2011, the preparation of the second sectoral territorial plan began. At the end of 2012, the PTS progress document was available, and an environmental sustainability report was also available, and it remained there. Now, in October, you, the EVE has just awarded the contract for the preparation of documents for the start of the processing of the second Euskadi wind power plant. In three months' time, according to the papers I have seen, there will be these documents, and, Counsellor, what is the timetable you have for this PTS to see the light? The documents, the progress made in the PTS in 2012, or the environmental sustainability report that was made, because the orography has not changed, the wind cycles I believe are being studied and will also be valid at this time, cannot be used, or are valid as a working basis, and I would like to know whether that document and sustainability report can be documents to work at this time. On the other hand, in the proposal for a law on energy sustainability that we are working on, in a transitional provision, the Government undertakes to draw up a renewable energy STP, which will have to be submitted – says the provision – within two years, i.e. in the next parliamentary term. If wind energy is the renewable energy with the greatest development potential in our autonomous community, does it make sense to develop two separate PTSs of renewable energy, Counsellor? According to the data collected in the 2030 Strategy, aside from wind energy, solar photovoltaic energy may have medium-term development potential, but it would always be in small groups, small scales, with solar plates for self-consumption or a little more; that says, or say, in the 2030 Strategy. It also talks about hydroelectric energy, which has no relevant growth future. The production by biomass of electricity is very complicated, as well as energy for thermal conditioning of installations and trade. There are then other technologies such as those that can produce electric or renewable energy or, in addition to terrestrial wind and photovoltaics, it may seem that at the moment of little potential in the medium term in Euskadi, the marine wind, the thermoelectric solar, the marine energies, which seem not to have a great development. We have a lot of technology, but we need to keep moving forward so that that cost-benefit and results are really optimal. Madam Counsellor, both you and the Vice-President of Industry have called for a country pact to boost renewables; you said this spring: "The Basque Government proposes a great pact to boost wind power," you said. Mr Zarraonandia said: "It is in the interest of the Basque Government to promote a pact between different actors, parties and associations, which enables the development of renewable energies, particularly wind energy". On Wednesday Mr Ararteko will come to this House and tell us that he has discovered that a social pact is needed, and we will remind him that we had already discovered that here ten years ago, right? So how does this government interest in the wind pact translate? What do you want to do? How do you want to work? Because we'll have to look for tools. Are two PTSs, wind and renewable, possible and compatible? And how can the current parks be repotted? I would like to know those measures, and whether the Department and the Government have other measures to boost renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u55	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Thank you, Mrs López de Ocariz; you have made a rather thorough review of the situation. So, I'm going to save myself analyzing all that data. Yes, it is, and I think we have to start by considering that we are aware that, despite all the efforts, we are still moving very far from the objectives we have set ourselves, that, being ambitious, they tended to be realistic, and yet that 21% of renewable energy consumption or that, of all the consumption we have, 21% is renewable in 2030 is still far from the objectives set by the European Union, and yet I fear that we are going to walk very just to get there. Therefore, we start from this complex situation in which we find ourselves, because we are, first of all, a country which, moreover, is industrially recognized as a very relevant power in wind generation and also in photovoltaics, above all; it does not mean that in the rest of the technologies not, but, above all, in those two. A place where we are industrially pioneers and yet we are not pioneers in implantation and generation, and I believe that this is the step that remains to be taken. You made the review, precisely, of how the first wind PTS was approved; however, enough problems were generated so that it could not be developed. And in more than one committee you have heard me referencing that we need a country pact; we need a pact that what we are going to say in a next PTS, in the second PTS, we can then hold on to in time. I mean, it's not enough that we approve it here, but then we keep it and we can take it to execution. That's what we're talking about with that country pact. In this respect, before I go any further in these areas, I would like to refer to some of the actions we are taking from the renewables, just for a review and for knowledge. In biomass, which we know is not for general generation but more for self-consumption, but we are, of course, working on two interesting projects of use that can be pioneering in the future by gaining dimension, both in what is the coronation project here in Vitoria-Gasteiz and in Txomin Enea, near Donostia. We are evaluating the resources that currently exist in Rioja Alavesa as a result of all the prunes of the vineyards and others that we can also use as a biomass resource, or participating in logistic centers that allow us to accumulate all those biomass resources and then be able to use them. In this legislature it is envisaged that we will be able to make investments of around 38 million euros in these three main lines. Wind power, where are we? We were doing that analysis of what documents we needed for that second windfall PTS; of course, on the basis of what we already had, but knowing that it had also raised enough problems not to address its implementation. In other words, the PTS had been drafted, we had the sustainability document, but no further progress was made, because there was no such consensus to carry it forward. Of course, we'll keep them in mind. What do we want to work on besides? Well, if in addition to the large wind we can work on mini wind topics, since we also have companies that are dedicated to it, then let's also use mini wind. And, in this case, since we have also put into operation the Bimep installation in Armintza, we are able to evaluate the possibility that there is a wind generation not only on the ground (onshore offshore We know that this still has a development that has to be carried out, but it is already acquiring a sufficient dimension in the world so that also, in the elaboration of that wind PTS, we consider not only land, but also the sea. As for geothermal, some very specific activities are also being carried out, but above all we participate in more pilot projects, more of a small dimension, but in which we try to promote different actions and where there is a proposal of a somewhat larger dimension, which we would also use as a pilot to be able to climb it a posteriori on the Zorrozaurre peninsula. As far as ocean energy is concerned, you said that we still have to continue to investigate, but we do not let it go. I think we have a platform, which is Mutriku's, which is the only one that, besides being financed by the European Union, has worked every day, delivering power to the network, delivering energy. It is a way of working where, moreover, we have a part of the installation as pilot of experimentation and we have to continue to deepen in that sense, so that what is experienced in Mutriku can then be taken to the sea in Bimep and, from there, an industrial climb can be made. We have to go on that path. We know it's even more at the level of research escalation and industrial escalation, but we have to continue in that wave. And, as far as photovoltaics are concerned – you know, the Lehendakari also commented in September in the plenary of general policy – we also started with an implementation of a certain dimension, 24 megawatts, which will be installed in Arasur. In other words, we have facilities in a multitude of schools; school, university and so on; on roofs of many other types of facilities, but we want to put into operation and analyze whether it is possible to make larger installations. And not only on the ground, but to analyse other types of actions that are also taking place in Europe, which are floating photovoltaic installations; to analyse where and how it could be carried out. Well, those are the actions we are taking in terms of renewable energy, but we are also aware that all that is energy efficiency and saving entails the ability to accumulate results in terms of the generation of renewables increasing their percentage. In this regard, you know that the decree on energy sustainability in public buildings has been adopted, where there are three very important areas of action. One of them is energy saving, of course; the second is in mobility, but the third is to install photovoltaic plates and renewable installations in different types of buildings, so that 40% of public buildings have renewable energy installations, compared to the 23 that currently exist. That also leads to us being able to collaborate and increase the generation. As a result, moreover, of that decree, we put into operation the preliminary draft law which, well, I believe has already been discussed in committee, in paper, and which is going to be approved by this House, I understand that in 2019. That is where the PTS of renewable energy is collected, and I hope that you too will join, and we hope that this House, unanimously, will be able to draw that decree, which we know does not have a hundred percent of ambition that we could have in terms of energy, but that it will help us achieve some of the objectives that we have set ourselves, and where a PTS of renewable energy appears. We are not, of course, going to put into operation a second wind power plant and one of renewable energy sources; what we are trying to do is to add, in that of renewable energy sources, in addition to the wind power part of wind generation both on land and at sea, possible locations of photovoltaic installations that are not just on roofs, on installations, such as those we have at this time of small size, but that we can approach larger installations such as those that are going to be put into operation in Arasur, or those that we are valuing for floating installations. That supposes we have to have it defined in that PTS. And let us try to ensure that a wider PTS allows us, if we achieve that consensus – which I hope will be so – to have sufficient capacity to address not only wind but also photovoltaic installations that lead to the achievement of the objectives set out, and that the 21 % we have in the 2030 Strategy can be overcome, and that we can reach the indicators that are being proposed to us from Europe, and also the generation itself can contribute to that 21 % that we have at this time of consumption, and that the generation itself makes that consumption greater in renewable generation. Therefore, we will use the existing, and in the PTS of renewable energies that collects the law will be where we put the wind and also the photovoltaic part. We understand that it is a way of contributing, collaborating and that, with the consensus of this House, we can have a long-term planning and get that by 2050, with the industrial potential that exists, we can also prove that we are able to generate renewable energies in the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u57	Indeed, Commissioner, you have not given me time to talk about industry, about the wind and wind-sea industry we have in our autonomous community, and of course it is a reference. And I believe, if the plans have not changed, that you announced that in 2019 the powerful congress of this energy will be in the Basque Country, and we pride ourselves on having that industry and that potential that brings so much to our autonomous community. But we are in that paradox: at the blacksmith's house, wooden spoon. So, counselor, you tell me about what we have, about expectations. But with what we have and with the expectations that you have cited, we are not going to reach 2050 by downloading all energy consumption exclusively into renewable energy, because we have an 80% dependence on fossil energy. Therefore, we must do something more, something more powerful. And you have said on many occasions that the renewable energy that will help us achieve those goals is wind energy, be it marine – which will be – but it will have to be terrestrial. And when I talk to you about the pact, I don't talk to you about the pact of this House. This House has already unanimously agreed in 2009 that there must be an interinstitutional and social agreement. And that's where we're at. And that's what I think, apart from doing the second PTS, we have to work on. And it would be good if we put in time, objectives, and this legislature we could get to have the document tools to deal with the impulse to renewable energies and the inter-institutional and social pact, because it is basic, basic and fundamental, and that I believe it requires a lot of work and planning, and how we order that. We're in a complicated pre-election era; I understand that. But let's plan. Let's see how we do it. I think it can be done, and that's good too. I believe that we are in a different context than in the early 2000s. The Elgea Park was very peaceful and quiet, very peaceful and quiet. Then someone dedicated himself to burning fires, but that park that was the first park we did it in a very dialogued way with who was going to set it up, and in a very quiet way. Therefore, I would like this legislature to be the legislature where we fix both the document tools and the social pact. I think that would be important and an achievement. 10 years in this thesis it seems to me that it should already make us reflect that something we have to do. And that's the commitment I ask of you. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u59	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. As you mentioned, Mrs López de Ocariz, that WindEurope Congress is to be held in April – between 2 and 4 April – in Bilbao, at the BEC "By the way, all of you are invited," I think it's going to be a congress of special relevance. Precisely the organizers sent us this paradoxical reflection, and it is the word they used: how a country where industry has that power, that capacity, that international relevance, moreover, and that way of working is not able to have sufficient demonstration projects, having an autonomous community next to where there is a wind generation designed and developed mostly by industry here; how we are not able to operate larger wind farms. They were also drawn very much to their attention, and I think we have to work, and I agree with you that that pact came out of this House, yes, but, in addition, it requires other institutions, it requires outbuildings, it requires municipalities where those wind farms or photovoltaic parks are going to be installed, and it requires a social consensus; I fully agree. Therefore, our objective and our will is precisely after the adoption of the law and after establishing the criteria for the implementation of the PTS, to open a way of working in which the interinstitutional and social agreement is incorporated at the same time as we are working on the PTS. I believe that this is the only way to do it, and if it comes out with the agreement of this House, I believe that the social partners to whom everyone can represent or whom they can reach will also be more accessible and easier, so that we can have that consensus that will allow us in the next 10 years who will be in this House to say that there is a photovoltaic park and a wind farm that makes us generate renewable energy, which, by the way, by 2050 we are not going to reach 100% – the goal is 2100 – but, well, still in 2050 we have an important park and a relevant generation in renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interregation, made by the members of the board of the Ostero Galiridas, to the head of the Economics and Sub-Separations, in order to change the Myrgetic planning." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u61	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam Lopez de Octariz, and thank you very much, Madam Tapia, for my interference must also be an interaction of energy, and I believe that you have developed so many things that I have to say, and, in a very different sense, I will not speak, but I would like to introduce a few or a little depth into the subject. For, if it seems strange to you, I shall begin to praise fossil resources. It's been about 200 years since modern human beings learned to use the fossil resources that were buried, these titanic forces. And we can say that when we learned how to use fossil resources, we released some titanic forces that had been under the earth for millions of years. From that point on, it's a well-known story. History had a acceleration that had never been known before, because it is the capacity for work, because energy, which, in the end, multiplied, multiplied, multiplied the population, multiplied wealth, multiplied production, multiplied speed, multiplied. We may say that we have built our civilization on these titanic forces. What that supposes, when asked, is supposed to be in the scale, I put this example, and I think it is very significant. That's a speaker of the company of Maersk Dinmark. It's in this canteen that you've got 16. Europe had all its commercial interference with America throughout the whole century. In 100 years, the themes that Europe and America changed fit here. And if anyone has curiosity and wants to convince himself in a personal way what the force of fossil energy and oil supposes, let him try something very simple: When you get out of the house, you drive a gallon of gas and drive a car into the car, you drive it around, push it around, push it back, drive it back to the house for about 20 miles away, check it out, you know, you know, you've got the car stopped, you know, you've got a car, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got to take it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got to take it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it. That's this titanic energy of fossil resources. With this force of the Titans under control, it is natural that our civilization should have a sense of impregnableness. We all have that feeling, somehow. Not many of them thought that on this other titanic ship, for a piece of ice, they might have trouble. But the alarm went off, and I would say that this civilization of our Titanic, according to so many scientists, has, according to many investigators, not one, but has already crashed into two izebergs. We have often quoted a Izberg: it is a matter of fossil waste, and in this sense it seems to me very important to me that this laminary of the International Power Agency has taken out of it two months ago. In this lamina, it is said that today's current tendency can occur in 2025. Gap gap per year. And the other izeberg, of course, you haven't talked about this Françoise, but I think that every time we talk about energy we have to talk, we must talk about the gass from the heat-presidents that we've been using fossil resources so far. And as you can see, like the use of energy, especially the emissions of fossil resources have been an exponential growth. And in this sense I would say: And that's why I brought this interference here today, because there's been a lot of news about it in the past few months. First of all, it is an important ALLANCE, the European Union has drawn up new rules and rules, and the new rule says something very interesting: 2019. At the end of the year, each nation must present "pauquetes compatriots de mergía y climata." You remember, I said from the beginning of the law, that they must go together all the time. You didn't see that clearly. I think there must also be a reflection about it, and a critical reflection must be made. The panel in the climate of IPCC has again remarked us in the situation, and, in its words, I speak Antialias, it is a dramatic situation. The environmental panel of the United Nations has released another report, and it says that the efforts we are doing today must be multiplied three times. And the last one is a very interesting report. The European parliament, the year before, asked the European Commissioner to make a vision for the 2050s, which of them should be of use, or of the most energetic method, and of which the ends ought to be. And what the report's saying is, I don't know if you've had time to read it. I mean, he doesn't have another word. And I've made a sort of mystery, and I'd like to read a few things in a hurry. Esaten du: "The overall approach of this report addresses the challenges associated with the mitigation of anthropogenic climate change and proposes a strategy to accompany the decarbonisation pathways of the European Union, consistent with the Paris agreements. "However, only focusing on anthropogenic climate change is not enough to establish the scenario in which the European Union is called upon to deploy radical changes in the way in which energy, resources, goods and services are produced and used. "Modernity, in fact, faces a multiplicity of crises that go beyond the crucial environmental imperative of stopping greenhouse gas emissions. "A decade after the great financial crisis, the world is realizing that promises of exponential growth to increase human well-being for all have not been met and cannot be met. "Another fundamental promise of modernity for the world, such as cheap energy for the whole world, based on the massive exploitation of fossils, or unlimited mobility for people and goods, have clearly shown their inconsistency in meeting the limits of natural resources and their huge unpaid externalities. "The economy, as we know it, operates in a materially expansive, socially divisive and environmentally hostile manner, and receives disruptive shocks at an increasing rate. "This is not sustainable. The alternative to a strategy of more than the same, which would eventually turn the crisis into a collapse, must be based on a fundamental reconceptualization of the structure and functioning of the current economic system," he continues. Eta amaitzen du: "Time is scarce and efforts must be adapted to the challenge, which is immense." I think, and it's very well for us to discuss and discuss what we are going to do, and I don't have any complaints about what you've said in that sense, but it seems to me that this has to take a different level. I mean, it's a challenge of civilization, and it's not just here to tell you whether we can get a few porches up there and fit them to the demands that come from Europe. In this sense it has become clear to me that the Mystergetic 2030th strategy, if it wasn't at first, is out of date, and we're going to have to take a turn. That's clear. But we must go beyond that. When we speak of the popular effects of energy, and when we have them, I also mention them, and I also want to look for them. And here it is said that we have to go to a economy or economic metabolism that has zero for 2050, and that we have to place it in the centre of our political initiative, and from that point forward we have to put all the other activity on how to get hold of it or get it. In this sense, I have five more minutes, I shall give some ideas, but it seems to me that we all must do the autochristic, which has had the huggeration of edagobernus, it is necessary to do more; but we must raise a degree to this request, because it is of immense importance, and this change is indispensable to guarantee the life of ours and our descendants itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, Mr. Otero, I agree with what you said. So I don't have anything special to say about it. But I'd like to take a couple of reflections about it too. On the one hand, I believe that different measurements are rising from Europe, it is true, and they change from one day to another. Finally, I think it was, on the 18th of November, just as they settled their different goals, and, it is true, we shall have to adapt ours and see what is really the role of each of them. A more strategic consideration must be made, and then I shall come in a little, for even from the European Union, the police arrive at some sort of reflection which would have been the forms of this strategic investigation. And I'd like to include another theme all this time because you've started fossil fuels. I don't think it's very clear what paper it's going to be until 2050, for example, gas, because somehow it's the first step to debonize. We've often said and we really believe that fossil fuel, oil, should be removed during the interval. We had removed the coal for a long time, and what paper the gas must still be, what paper it must still be in the carriage.... I think we ought to consider all this carefully, and in this sense it is important what this change will effect in the climate, but what influence it will produce in the industry is important, and we shall have to look into our industry, and particularly reflect on what must be its role and its direction in every sector which it must go to. We've seen what a right influence he's had when we started with the accounts of the diesel. I think, then, that in general I would include it too. Why? Because it has a direct influence, and we must be prepared as a village for it. But you mention several subjects from Europe, from IPCC, and so on, but I've taken three topics; in this case, the European Boards seem important to me, the Commissioners, and that's what happened in November 28th, and they tell us that we have to study all our energy with an extra point of view. If we put numbers together, I'll discuss them with the climate, but I think we have three different strategys here, and then I'll discuss them later. Tastes like pixka beats zein den ikuspegi hori, and zuekin konpartituko had exactly two. Aipatzen du, konkretuki: "By investing in realistic technological solutions and training citizens and harmonising action in key areas of industrial policy, finance or research, a transition that is just, socially and climate-friendly can be achieved." Beraz, nik you had to indulge hemen saartuta dagoela eta beraiek ére aipatzen dutela. They ask us to have a certain point of view, and let us place a meaning or a direction in which we may be informed that there are industrial sectors, that there may be investigators, that society may exist, and let us consider climately what changes there will be, and let us examine everything from the point of view of employment. It tells us, in order to make this transition complete, that the European Union, each State, each citizen of which is competitive, supports jobs, and really endures Europe; Aipatzen dute zehazki, horrela esaten dute: "We have to make a path to a climate-neutral economy that will require joint action in seven strategic areas". Nik you had to park batan and beast, bath, agian, ikuspegi guztiaren ikuspegia eduki behar dugula. Seven Anbito Una industrial competivà un impulso de la circular; there is a little road there, but there are still so many things to be done. Infrae Lands e Interconexiones competivas, and in this case what importance is the energy that we need to pass from one village to another, and even from a gas point of view, which will still have their role until 2050. And he also talks about bionomía y sumideros naturales de carbono, capura y almacenito de carbono. We're talking bionomy, and then there's another question, too, in that sense, and we'll discuss it. But I believe that we have the meaning of both of us in astronomy as a people, and that we must go deep in it, because the economy which may be drawn from all those forests we have is important, and this also may contribute to what we have to do in climate change. Where do we have the difficulty that we haven't really done anything? In carbon capture and storage. We have a line of action that we have to work on. Gero, badaude bi komisario –bereziki aipatzen dute –, energiaren ingurukoa eta garraioen ingurukoa. Energiaren ingurukoak esaten says that we have demonstrated how to reduce emissions while creating prosperity, local and high-quality jobs. Well, we have to move it to a prosperous Europe and at the same time no European, no region is left behind, but let us make Europe a climate-neutral space at the same time. So I think that in that strategic consideration of yours, I would introduce all these variables. It is true that we must examine it from the climate; and here, as a country, we have three different schemes, it is the Plural law, over here. On the one hand, we have a plan of strategy de Cambio Climitaico KLIMA 2050; we have our plan, the strategy of the Eurgética de Eusketa 2030; and there is a law plan, in the anteproycto de Leyca de Cambio de Camitico. If we see the objects of these three, they are more or less united, but we must consider all three of them thinking that Europe has something else to put in us, how all are united, and I should consider how we ought to go about this industrial variable, and where our employments ought to be, and how we ought to cultivate it. We must, therefore, see what we are doing, and what changes we must change, and how we may combine all this, but also what the European Union relates to us, not only what we ought to do, but in this case I should consider more particularly how it must work at the strategic point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u65	Yes, thank you again. In general, I mean, we'll go and talk, and in general I can say that I agree. What I would have asked for is the truth about the matter of preference, the matter of importance, and the size of the challenge before us. And it seems to me that we're still a bit self-couperative, we say we don't get to the right numbers, but I think other signs must be given to society. And I often think that the Basque Organization of energy would have to play another role. I don't know if it'll give me time for it, but to make a little idea, to tell the truth. In 1977, the President of the United States of Jimmy Carter comes out in the middle of the paraffin crisis, and he commits an alibi to the whole state, and says: "Good night, tonight I want to have an unpleasant conversation with you about an unprecedented problem in our history. With the exception of preventing war, this is the greatest challenge our country will face during our lives. "Our decision on energy will test the character of the American people and the ability of the President and Congress to govern this nation. This difficult effort will be the moral equivalent of war, except that we will unite efforts to build and not to destroy." And he talks sobre inconvenentes, sobre sacrifices. It's very interesting. It's very interesting. And what I'm saying with this is that maybe we have to start making an idea, and that we have to start making a review about certain experiments we've just sent out, and that we need to make real sacrifices, or we'll have to get some real sacrifices, otherwise when they've taken the trouble in François, change, transition, we can see there'll be serious problems. That's why it's so important for me to look for a pact, a real political and social pact, that there will be a wide participation, and it will be easier to get ahead of all of us, even if you say to the public that they must make sacrifices. For, if the information that all the panels give us is true, we shall be obliged to press it well, and, in that sense, to look at the market or to look at the markets, or only at the signs of the market, we shall have to send other signs, or send other signs to the market. I mean: The Prosecutor is there, there's the law, and it seems to me that the extreme resolutions which have hitherto been made have been decided on the market, and the market is not yet prepared, and I should say that the market will be difficult to make a change which must be made, especially because we have not an endless time before us. And even when you look at energy... I wanted to talk to you about the Basque Organization of Power, because when you go to the Basque Organization of Power, they say, "El Ente Vasco de la Myrgía en en en en en en en que esta principalente orientado al mercado." And I think that we have to go round the whole thing, that is, we're saying we can accept the goals of a non-commissioned economy of 2050th year, a very big retractable goal of 2030, while the main public energy produces energy is 97% of electrical energy through the fossil, isn't it? And perhaps, on the market-place, it was the best decision to decide, but there must be a change there, and we must send a strong signal from the public sector to all the others, saying: This is a real bet, and we, in fossil resources, will lead the downward direction, and our wager is genuine. And I, in this sense, am going to end a little with a joke, and help to campaign or campaign, which is the proposition: We make Ente Vasco de la Irgía ente vasco de mergías en vovables and, uh, pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, the last joke was good, it could also be EVE forever. Well, I think the Chamber will be very surprised to agree today, and maybe we've both been dislocated or finally looked for a place to agree. It's true that we have to put importance and dimension in some way and send signals. But we have to send these signals carefully so as not to happen what you were talking about, what's happening in France or what's happening right now. It's true that we must go to a deconquentization, it's true, we must go to the use of electric cars, because that's what they're talking about in France about the yellow waistcoats and the law that comes to us from Spain. But even if we agree with this, we must somehow mark the way we should do it. Because there's something you've been talking about and I've pointed out social justice. At this moment, if you tell a person with least economic resources and maybe an old gas station car, no, you can't walk with that car and buy the electric car, then he doesn't have enough resources for that. Maybe there's a way from here 50 years or 40 years old where we can help this person buy another kind of car, as an example. I think that's the important way to put it, yes, but how we're gonna get there. And there are two things: Of social justice, of course, you'll have to come and tell society that you'll have to get used to it by degrees, and you'll have to get used to it, and you'll have to get used to it, and you'll have to get used to it. And we must speak of all this, and in that consent I think they are very clear things to be spoken of; for if we do not really speak deeply, and do not succeed deeply, we shall not reach any place. And how we have to mark what we're supposed to do. He's looking at the market, the Basque Organization of Power, I think, when it's mentioned, perhaps the interpretation is yours, the market is only looking at the company. When we say "look at the trade," it's that we work in this market, but looking at the industry, and many of the measurements of maximum efficiency have been helped in business, but also in the housing and in each population. So I think the Euscalal organization of energy has worked on so many things and continued working with certain companies, but also with society, and also trying to make this transition of energy. And we've always said that at the moment when the gas bet, because it was mentioned in the '80s, you should take off the coal and remove the oil, and use the gas at that moment as a kind of transition. And we believe in it, as transition we must still use gas, and for a few years we shall not pass through to be fully retracted. The way we're going to do it, and we really think it, and I think it's also mentioned in the European level, it's only by the gas. But when we examine it, and what appears in other countries, the depositation, as well as the CO. 2 how to bind and accumulate, and how to consider another subject, which appears more and more, which will be the paper of the hydrogeine. I don't think we've worked that, and it's getting more and more hydrogen with gas. Well, let us consider in a wide manner, I think, by thinking where we are going to arrive, but also how we shall do it, and whence we are told of the European Union, with all the support and support of the climate, but also without leaving the economy aside, for we have and take care of the two objects. You can do that, and I think that's what it's supposed to be and how we're supposed to find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of Eva Lopez de Lariyabe de Matuna EH Collectors have made of the development of Economics and the chief department of the Sub-States, about the politics of the forest." Mrs. Lopez de Lariyabe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u69	Yes, hello, good morning, thank you, Mrs. President and all of you. If we take the AP1 highway to Donostia and want to enjoy the landscape, then it'll be difficult, because forests and mountains are not green, brown, and red, and it's not just a matter of colour, it's not just a matter of fact; it's the effect of a concrete pattern and a terrible economic problem. I'll also use a photo today, an ugly photo, an ugly photo landscape, and we'll see the landscape where there's an answer. 40,000 hectares of radiata pine affected by a disease. 40,000 hectares of pine trees that will disappear in a few years. 40,000 hectares resulting from a model of forest production that is now more than ever questioned and whose most serious consequences of this problem, of this model, are still to be seen. Y me adelanto a respusta, señora Tapia, me dira what you think is a plan, me dira que que un plane, conifero-basso, you've designed the euca strategy of rescaling the conifero-basso, yes. This will be done in three different districts: the knowledge of the evils which it produces in the woods, partly of the knowledge of the evils it produces, and partly of the measures to prevent the evil, on the other hand; and of the return of the sector. That's how it should be. Good, but as the main measure of this strategy is aerial fumigation with cuprous oxide in these pine trees, not only on the 40,000 hectares of which we have just spoken, but on many more hectares of mountain. Moreover, today there are serious doubts that fumigation, on the one hand, and coprous oxide, on the other, are effective in addressing this problem. An easy question, what will the government do to give an answer to this problem from now on? How are you guys going to play?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Lariyabe. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I think we ought to mention the first, and that we must very clearly say that the presence of a disease does not mean that the policy of the forest is adequate or inadequate, but that there is a disease. Serious? Yeah, but the disease, and that's what you have to deal with. I'd like to discuss a couple of things with you. On the one hand, Euskadin, 2016th, because we have this final issue, our territory is nearly 70% of the woods and more than 80 percent trees, not bad. Simples, more than $1,500 straight, others are, in some sort, uncorrected. The trees we take from our forests, the pursuit industry, are less than we set them up, so our industry is assured, and the industry of this sector works with patience. We have all sorts of industry right now. Eukadin grew up, you know that the facts produced, planted and cultivated from that point. They're local companies, and small companies, more than 80 acres, so they're small companies, they're not cores. Which kind of company do we have? We have mills, papers, or manufactures, that produce paper pastes, we have wood-jeas produced, well, in Europe, if we compare them with the sector which is in the southwest, the most fruitful and the most perfect is ours. So that means that since it got started in 1994, something's been done right, we've got a very important sector. Eta zuk esan aurretik, nik ere beste zerbait esango difuut, zeren askotan aipatzen hut: We do not have a monoculture forest, the leafy ones are 53.5%, the conifers are 46.5%. The sector has been diversifying to ensure two things: that we have planted forests, in which if there are diseases we have to face them, and, on the other hand, an important industrial sector, an industrial sector where, of course, right now, with a small country like us, we have the whole value chain. From there, an important disease we have to face, yes. We have to stop that spread and there are different ways to do it. Other countries have done so. It is not a terminal disease, nor will it make the 40,000 hectares disappear. That's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ms. Lopez de Lariyabe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u73	I'm going to be honest, I'm not going to follow even the replica I had prepared. Because she didn't answer me, I thought she was going to answer me and I had her ready to fix the answer. Which is a disease, we agree. But as a result of a model, you won't be able to deny it to me. We are facing a critical situation and launching messages that, well, quiet, this is not a monoculture, it can make everything worse. I mean, it can still make it worse. To this day, there is not even permission to smoke, but, again, if I have it, do you think it is the most effective measure? Is it going to be done? Won't it be done? Do you have a plan, Mrs. Tapia? I'm asking you to see if you have a plan, something so simple. We're going to fumigate the pine trees, but are we going to fix the problem, in the medium, in the long term? I believe that a debate is necessary. That you don't see a monoculture? Let's discuss it. What if the municipalities oppose fumigation to deal with this disease? It's already happening, actually. We have Mutriku City Hall that has opposed smoking. What will happen if experts, such as the Academy of Medical Sciences this week, warn that there will be a serious danger to human health in the event of fumigation? Are you going to listen to them? This model is expired. The only ones who are corrupt are not pines. Even the pattern is rotten. For us this model is not only expired, but it is rotten, like a lot of pines. You must also assume that it is much easier to take it, to take action and to get counsel, to get training. There is a difference between Iparralde, Araba and Nafarroa with Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, and I think you should take a look around and know why, at least pose it. More public, more controlled and fairer management, if you like. It's a monoculture, we won't agree on that today. This monoculture is alien to sustainable management of the mountains, with economic interests – which I have not said "terratenants", you have said – increasingly concentrated and far away from the first sector; a monoculture that, in addition to making waters, will open the door to the planting of other species, which will flood our mountains with the danger they pose to biodiversity. From EH Bildu we believe that this country deserves a stake for agriculture, for the agroforestry sector, which is not only forested, for a first sector that manages the territory effectively, sustainably and socially even. That's where we're going to meet. Let's discuss it. We'll discuss it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u74	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea Mrs López de Arroyabe, you can see that I answered you in the first what you wanted me to answer in the second. I'm not going into the data, because I've given it to you. We have a sector that is industrially powerful and is currently in trouble. 46% has a problem and we need to address it. And it can be done in different ways: in the traditional way, using lightening, pruning, sprinkling; it won't be enough and it'll see what to use copper. How? The European Plant Protection Agency says how and under what conditions. You're authorized. Obviously, not the whole mass, not the whole forest mass will be applied in the same way. Fumigation is not going to be used as a treatment, let's say, generalized, but in those places where it is needed, with the perfectly defined quantities, which are less than one gram diluted in water per pine. Therefore, perfectly defined, perfectly authorized, in places where aquifers and others do not exist. It is an approved, well-defined and proven treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, "I'm asking you, Miss Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team to the Chief of Economics and Subventures, about the exits suggested by Christmas on the state of Naval. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u77	Good afternoon, Mrs. Tapia. No shipowner, no investor, no shareholders, no public bailout, no report studying and supporting the acquisition of assets by the administrations, no industrial plan. From January 11, no staff, and at the step we go, no shipyard. Little by little we have nothing left; in particular, you have nothing left. Now I will not delay the entrances, because we have discussed the subject here and this morning, but the question is clear: Now what's the plan? Is the plan on it now?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u79	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, as you said, I've been here before and I won't be long now. But only one thing must be said: Everyone's going to be doing the same thing as his responsibilities and fun, and I said what's going to be the three of them. At the moment, there are three themes: one, most of the workers have the means of going to the SEPI, in order that they may be sure to support it and return it; and they who have not this or that guarantee, how to work with them now and then, when the ship is in motion, and this insterissor. There are some, and in order to produce a future project, they must do the industrial project themselves, not us. It is not our responsibility, it is his; Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u81	Señora Tapia. We have discussed on previous occasions the report submitted by your Government, a report which, in our view, was a catalogue of excuses for not intervening. You think you have a problem, although those of us who are in favour of the maximum commitment in defense of the Naval I think we have an advantage, with the appearance, not by the art of magic, but because someone has worried that it existed, of a report commissioned by a union of the Naval that says different things. In some cases it coincides, but it essentially says things different from what you have been defending and the report you have commissioned has been defending. The report has not yet been made public, but I have obtained permission to read it even if it is only a small part of the conclusions, and I think it is very revealing. "In certain cases, public intervention may be superior to private intervention, provided that it – private intervention – has a real economic impact and is not merely symbolic." There are many more leaflets and you will have the opportunity in your moment to know it in its entirety, but I think this gives a twist to the situation. You have previously described this report as a part of the report. I understand it's a piece of report. Your report is also a part of the report. The question is, Mrs. Tapia, who are you from? On the part of those who want to make excuses not to intervene? Or from those who want to put all the meat in the roaster to keep the yard open? The question of keeping the Naval open does not depend on an item in the budgets, as has been said from this very rostrum very recently, in a rather frivolous and irresponsible way. If that were the case, I have no doubt that Podemos and the Socialist Party would have introduced a heading in the General Budgets of the State in that direction. 7,300 million are going to be spent on tanks and aircraft; a match for the Naval could have put in. But the question is not about money, because there is money in different areas. The question is one of political will. And you, who have known this issue for a long time, for ideological prejudice and for reserving the administration, the state and the public a self-limited role, are not deploying all the potential you have to keep the shipyard open. And that's his responsibility. And it is a matter of political will, of public leadership, of articulating an integral plan, indeed, that can also have the participation of private investors, but that yes or yes they have to appear, because, we have said it on several occasions, they will not appear per se and will not appear in any condition to keep the shipyard open; one has to look for and, if not, create the appropriate investor, so that, together with the participation of the institutions, the shipyard of La Naval can be kept open. You used to tell Mr. Becerra that you want to go into history. I don't think Mr. Becerra's going into history for this, as well as for other things. I don't have the pretension to go into history either. I have a much more humble intention, which is, in the area of my responsibilities, to make 100% so that the Naval can remain open. Before, Mr. Becerra mentioned Carlos Solchaga, that yes happened to history on the left margin because he was responsible for industrial dismantling. Don't follow your path, don't be the one who goes into history because you're the Industry Advisor who didn't do what he had to do to keep the Naval open. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u83	Mr Casanova, you have mixed me two kinds of interventions in this second part, because there is one part that I subscribe 100% and there is another that has mixed me. Let's see, we agree that there has to be a private investor, one or more, yes or yes, because I keep what our report says and what another report says from an international office, as you like it, which is called Hogan Lovells, an international office not hired by me, but hired by Pymar which is where we are governments and private shipyards, which says what I have read to Mr Becerra, and I will not repeat it either. Says exactly that. Then the will of this Government has always been, and I repeat again since September that the Lehendakari spoke: participation yes, but accompanying a private person. And the private yes or yes, it is in an 80% participation that your report can say that it says in certain cases. What our report says is that these certain assumptions are those of La Naval and they make the conditions lead us to conclusions that are the ones we present. But, having said that, the involvement of the government, as you say, there is money, there is format, and, I think I also said that in a question from Mr Becerra, I think I remember in the committee when we tabled the budgets. How are you going to do that? There is money, there are instruments, there is will, but we have to work for that private investor, which is not built, private investors are not built, exist or do not exist. Private investment formats are then built in which there may or may not be a public administration, which is something else. It articulates how, but the private investor per se has to be someone who will put money and, of course, bring an industrial project, which I think is the most relevant of all. And we are forgetting on many occasions. Private investor yes, but not at any price or in any way, we have to have private investors really involved in the activity, who will guarantee the activity in the long term and I believe that in that they will agree both Mr Becerra and you, in which we have to guarantee that, because employment is what we want to guarantee, and quality and long-term employment. And in that we have to get involved, not just in looking for an investor, but in looking for the investor to guarantee all that. And from there with the instruments we have, with the capacity and the will of the different administrations, to be able to help and collaborate to make that a reality. But I do not forget the other premise that I have also advanced, and I am repeating myself, but it is necessary to repeat it. There must be a will on the part of the private investor to want a public accompaniment and it does not always happen. Therefore, we have to work in that direction and that is what we are doing. That is what we have been doing for a long time, and at this moment we are already in the final phase where there are interested investors and where we need to get those investors to put an industrial project on the table. I think that was precisely what was said yesterday in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interface, the members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Populative Society, to change the policy of helping the Basque Family." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief departments, good morning. Well, this group again introduces an interpelation here, in this case, directed back to the head physician and the head physician of police society. And again we correct the appeal, seeing that this government has not fulfilled its engagements and duties in this particular respect. That's why we're heading the government back into an interpelation on this subject. After two years of parliamentary office, two years of parliamentary office of Mr Urkullu's Government, in which Mrs Artolazabal is a Councillor for Employment and Social Affairs, we can confirm that this Government, the Basque Government, has not made a decisive commitment to policies to support Basque families. And why are we saying this? We say this and we make this very strong statement, of course it is not the first time that we have formulated it, because this Government has been delayed in adopting those instruments that constitute the necessary framework for implementing measures to support families, and also, as I said, the commitments that this Government itself has made have been breached. "Y voy a poet no los ejemplos, sino los los haes concretos en los que ampheción que acabo realizar." When we talk about the family strategy, the President himself, 2015 at the general policy meeting, said that this strategy would soon arrive. Well, that strategy has arrived in the legislature more than two years ago. The strategy of support for families, already told us by Mr lehendakari there for the year 2015 that would arrive soon, that strategy that constitutes the framework from which the inter-institutional plan, the IV Plan, derives, since the third one ended its validity in 2015, as I say, arrived more than two and a half years late. The multi-year investment of 200 million euros that the lehendakari announced to us in a pre-election event there in May 2015, when we still didn't know when we were going to have the elections, was stalled with the possibility and speculated with the possibility that the elections that were finally in... They went ahead, but they were in September 2016 as all of you will remember, on September 25th. As we are also in pre-electoral period, the lehendakari announces a multi-annual investment of 200 million euros linked to the approval of the strategy and the family plan. The strategy comes two years later, much more than two years later. The family plan more than three years late, therefore, that announcement, obviously, stayed in the air. About the plan that helps your family. This plan was cancelled in 2015, and the new one, the fourth plan, has been tested this summer, three years later. The III Plan ends in 2015, the IV Plan is approved specifically on June 19, 2018, not to mention also the evaluation of the III Family Plan, also indispensable to carry out it before bringing here the IV Family Plan that also came late. This applies to the tools and instruments that constitute frameworks where all measures and actions to support family policies are deployed, and which not only obviously have to do with birth and reconciliation aid. It is because this government has also failed to comply with the measures envisaged in the III Family Plan, the plan ending in 2015, the plan that told us about a convergence with the European Union in 2020, that plan has failed to comply with the deadlines clearly. We are also talking about the delay in the implementation of the announcement that you are making to us at the beginning of the legislature at the mouth of the Lehendakari himself and also at the mouth of the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, when we were told that aid was being increased for the second child from two to three years old. They did so to us at the beginning of the legislature, for it must be said that this aid, also because of the inaction of this Government, has materialized this summer with the approval of the Decree amending the corresponding Decree of Support for Birth Aids by Children. Therefore, one more delay, one more non-compliance and the losers, as always, again, the Basque families, that yes, it must be said that with retroactive effect to January 1, 2018. Yes, counselor, but in 2017 the Basque families saw nothing of this help and that was an announcement made at the beginning of the legislature. You made this prediction, as well as the President, at the beginning of the law, and did not keep your word in this matter. The great announcement is coming, the great measure of this Government, because it must be said that the expectations of thousands of Basques will again be frustrated. On 21 March in particular, she announced - and this announcement also occupies cover and cover in the corresponding teleberri and in the media - an economic benefit for paternity surpluses for 12 weeks in the 12 months following birth which does not coincide in time with the mother's permission and with an amount equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. This announcement is made on March 21, 2018. For, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, and especially the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, this commitment by the Government, at best, will not be possible until next year. The Employment and Social Policy Advisor herself, on questions from different spokespersons in this commission, told us that the decree that protects and that covers the implementation of this measure, at best, would be adopted there in the autumn of 2019. But, counselor, there is not Mr Lehendakari, you are taking us by the way, making announcements on drums and plates about measures that seem to be stars, that are very new, that even sell them as pioneers at state level and that it is also very good because the Basque Government has money and has the chance to do so, and it is also that it has the obligation to do so when we have a structural problem, a demographic challenge to face, the lowest birth rates not only from the rest of Spain but from all of Europe, with an ageing population, with young people who cannot form a family; with families who cannot have the children they would like to have because of lack of financial support or because of lack of measures that encourage reconciliation, family co-responsibility... Madam Councilwoman, I was saying this at the beginning of my speech, it is the fourth question, I mean, that we have been in Parliament for two years. We've been two years and the Popular Party has introduced four interactions on this subject. The first one we formulated in relation to the cuts of this government, was intended to reverse those cuts, the famous 7% that you so much dedicated to criticizing during the term of Mr Patxi López. When they arrived at the Government, of course, they did not have much haste to reverse this cut; the People's Party had to translate it into concrete amendments to successive budgets. Seeing that this Government was absolutely inactive in relation to the referral of the new plan, the Fourth Plan and the strategy itself, and the formulation of concrete and effective measures to support Basque families, as we put forward a second question, to see whether it was the intention of this Government to carry out a determined policy of support for families. But there is a third question, Madam Counsellor, because we did not see any of those measures, that measure which you announced in March, which does not arrive, in relation to extending aid for the second child from two to three years, is that the adoption of that decree has arrived this summer, and you announce it in the beginning of the legislature, almost two years late again. And it should be said that this concrete measure in the III Family Plan was planned for 2014. I want to say that you will have to acknowledge that your performance in family policies is clearly improveable. And today comes the fourth interpellation, counselor. Is it the intention of this Government, seeing the balance in the policies of support for families, to take a turn in the policies of support for Basque families with concrete and effective measures, which can once and for all be real and not grandiose announcements that remain in the air because of their lack of leadership and commitment to Basque families?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u87	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. Yes, Mrs Garrido, this is the fourth time that I have come to answer this very question, and I will answer you the same thing as I have answered you the previous three or four times; that this Government is indeed giving strong support to family policies. During 2016 I had the honour of being appointed a counselor and we started to work. At the beginning of the legislature we announced all the measures, in particular in the area of family policy, that we were going to put in place, and one of them is what you are saying about the 50% increase in aid to the second children that we have put in place this same year 2018, as you say retroactively. But you will also know that the issues that from the legal and legal sphere have to be transferred to the different organs of the Government and the processing of these decrees, is the long and lasting about nine months, one year. Since I am a counselor, the last of the 16th to the first of the 18th, that decree is approved and the Basque families on 1 January 2018, after only one year, have been able to see the effective aid that the children, these second children have had in relation to the increase of 50%. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, it is true that we have many things to do; it is true that you, like us, have a clear and objective commitment to families, but what is not true is that we are doing nothing. The year 2018 has been a very important year in this area, and, as you know and are well known, Euskadi is one of the regions of Europe with lower birth rates and, therefore, in view of this situation, we have indeed attended and planned the different initiatives and road map that we need to have in order to achieve the objective of reversing this situation. Moreover, this is not something exclusive to Basque society, but to all the advanced societies of the European Union, and you know perfectly well that yes, that steps are being taken and that we not only make announcements that you call grandiose; what we do are initiatives that have been worked out and agreed with the associations, that have been seen from the point of view of equality and the wage gap what are the best initiatives to avoid reversing those situations, and we have been taking steps, firm steps to achieve that goal. We approved the Fourth Family Plan, we approved the Basque Pact for Families and Children, we unanimously signed that pact in accordance with the clear and concrete commitments that were also approved, as I say, unanimously in the Basque Family Council. In March, in this same House, we also held a monographic debate on families among all the political groups in the House. A number of initiatives were adopted that were incorporated into the IV Plan for Improvement. We then present all the initiatives you know well in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy. We have already made a great deal of progress in design and planning to put in place policies that clearly support Basque families, but you are not making any progress in your speech, Mrs Garrido, but you remain anchored in the same words that we have been listening to since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the interest you and your party can have in family matters is nothing more than mine and that of my team and the rest of the Government, and we are on this issue. The Government recognizes the importance of the family as the nucleus of human relationship and social, affective and community education, and therefore we promote policies that facilitate people with family responsibilities and those who want to build a family, the realization of this vital project in the best possible conditions. We try to overcome the economic or laborable difficulties that can prevent it, and for that we are working with social groups, with employers, with trade unions, with the aim of really implementing effective policies and not just policies for the gallery. Families for us are the institution that has demonstrated the most capacity to sustain itself, while adapting to the great social transformations, and has experienced great demographic transformations; the first, it has gone from being an extended family to being another of more nuclear dimension, and the second, it has diversified and pluralized, both in content and in what is the family itself. And all this has come and been reflected in that IV Family Support Plan in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which will have an effect from 2018 to 2022, and there are many actions in that plan, and one of them has to do with the access of people with children in unemployment situations, something we have to work on, with the aim of enabling women to join us in a real way, and we are doing it, and we are putting projects in place. Last year it was three pilot companies that worked in the field of conciliation and co-responsibility, this year it is already 30, next year we will try to make it another 30, with the aim of changing the culture, Mrs Garrido, because this we do not do overnight, we have to make a change in the stork and I think we are doing it, complicated. Other countries that had this problem began to adopt measures in the field of birth after World War II, such as France, and after 40 years, they are now seeing the results. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, we are already working as an autonomous community and as a government in the field of family policies, we are making investments that are universal in character, we are the only community in the State that does so, and I therefore believe that we have perfect credibility in order to be able to say that families for us are something very relevant. And we don't make big ads. We made a bet, a bet that has to do with the work surplus, in order to guarantee the economic coverage of the surpluses for the non-pregnant spouse, because we trust that to this extent, because we believe that it really facilitates equality, because it will fight the wage gap, because it will give us equal opportunities for women and men in view of access to the labour market and, above all, because it will protect children, who will have the opportunity to share with their parents, the two, pregnant or non-pregnant, during the first year of life, a situation that to date no autonomous community nor the Spanish State has put on the table. We are working to make further progress in the area of co-responsibility and conciliation. And also by strengthening parenting programmes and also creating a framework where we will work from tax coordination, to analyse the possibilities of integrated management of child benefits, tax deductions and other important issues that we need to address. Because aid to families goes not only by providing financial aid, Mrs Garrido, or by aid to conciliation from an economic point of view only, but also by providing services and these services are being provided; different initiatives are also being implemented from the Department of Education, with the aim of ensuring that families covering less than EUR 18,000 have free access to the Haurreskolak. And he tells me we haven't done anything. Well, I don't know how you interpret the one we haven't done anything. Over the course of this year, we have worked on numerous initiatives, decrees, of these two years of legislature, with the aim of promoting and improving assistance to minors, adopting, for example, the decree regulating family care in the autonomous community, approving also the decree on humanitarian programmes relating to the temporary displacement of foreign minors in the autonomous community, working, carrying out studies. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, I know that you and I would like things to be faster, but the point is that we have, we have this regulationism. But what I cannot admit to you, Mrs Garrido, is that this government does not bet because it is true that we are putting in place different concrete measures with budget on top of the table. The Basque Government is giving strong support to families and is making progress in public policies, increasing budgets year after year, with the aim of helping families which is what we all care about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u89	Look, counselor. If it's not that I say it, that I admit it, don't admit it, that I understand it, that I don't understand it. If it is the strength of the facts, it is here the strength of the facts, and the facts clearly show and corroborate that for you family support policies are not a priority. I mean, look at the balance sheet, if I've done a thorough review: III Family Plan, more than three years late; IV Family Plan, better end the third in 2015. The strategy that in 2015 the lehendakari told us it was coming soon, arrived more than two and a half years late. The measures, if you arrived at the Government in October 2016, if you had to have been these two years come to pass decrees, amending the decree of aid to families with children, to aid to conciliations, other decrees both, counselor, if you had to have the legal services of the Government and the corresponding department collapsed, collapsed by making decrees. If we are looking at the decrees and it is the amendment of four paragraphs. Don't excuse me, because the responsibility is yours, that this government's family policies leave much to be desired; yours and the lehendakari, especially when commitments have been broken, grandiose announcements, if you will, toast to the sun, because they have been toasts to the sun. It is that they announced an investment of 200 million euros, when this year the budget with this measure of the surplus..., let alone the increases that year after year in the budgets that the People's Party has supported have come with the amendments of the People's Party; because precisely they have not done the duties in their time and form, they are measures that have not been implemented. You tell me about the aid, the one that comes in the electoral programme, the government programme, the 50% aid, the 50% increase in the second child's aid from two to three years. But if the decree has been passed this summer, on June 19, specifically. And you announced it at the beginning of the legislature. If you took possession in October 2016, counselor. Another star measure that you are announcing this year: it enables 12 million euros in budgets. It tells us that, at best, the corresponding decree will be passed in the autumn of 2019, and presupposed 19 million euros, that, with a little delay, and above all now that there are no Budgets, you would not see that measure implemented and above you announce that it would not have retroactive effects. But where are the family support policies? The real ones, the ones that the Basque families notice that solves their life, that fixes their life, that allows them to reconcile, that allows them to carry out a life project. Where are those policies that can reverse the situation and the structural problem that we have in relation to low birth rate, Counsellor? Yes, it is that I am referring to your words, to the very announcements of this Government, of the lehendakari, yours, late, to date many unfulfilled. Of course, tell me about the countries of Europe. But if you had a time frame provided for in the III Plan of Institutional Support to Families, you have been unable to meet it. The star measure, one of the star measures that you announced to me today again here, tells me as a success. And it's fine, but it's just that they're short. It was planned for 2014, the aid to increase from 2 to 3 years the aid for the second child; if it was planned for 2014 and has arrived in 2018. If you do not converge with Europe, it is because you have not given them the will and because you have not had the will to do so, Counsellor. They have not had a real will to worry about the situation of Basque families. I just don't, no, I don't get it. Four interpellations, in each answer you tell me the same thing. Okay, obviously they're not just conciliation aid and birth aid. But you, in addition, have made statements on this, you know that this aid for the economic amount involved in the budget is very important. And because of your lack of diligence, the planned budgetary amounts have not been able to be implemented, Counsellor. It then tells me, about some aid, that there are no applications, as it is the opportunity for you to review the amounts and extend the years. But if there is will and this problem is seen as a priority problem for this government, for the people's government, because, of course, the Basque families are not on the political agenda of this government, they are not and the citizens know it, and it is that you too, with all these announcements, with these toasts to the sun, with these announcements that then remain in nothing, are clearly frustrating the expectations of the Basque citizens. If they tell you things they don't get to. If they are announcing things that do not come by their own inaction, by the lack of commitment and by the lack of diligence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u90	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. You don't believe what you're saying, Mrs. Garrido, really, I'm convinced you don't believe what you're saying. That we don't have the real will? That we don't want to support families? That we're collapsing? What did the legal services have to do with sparks? Of course I do. I have them sparking, because they're also doing their job and they're doing it in a proper and proper way. We are taking different initiatives with the aim of supporting families. Because he's been telling me that since 2015... It's just that, Mrs. Garrido, I'm in 2018, I was appointed a counselor at the end of November 2016, I started working actively the day after my appointment, but I have a natural year to be able to make all the political initiatives that you're claiming me, that we made them, because the decree in which support for the second children was increased by 50% has been approved in this year 2018, in May, retroactively. We have therefore taken a year, which is what it takes in this government to pass the decrees, whether you like it or not, Mrs Garrido. Lack of implementation, I have told you in many debates and conversations that you and I have had. The number of children born, boys and girls born in Euskadi is decreasing, and this is an objective fact. And also, when we have been negotiating with you, I told you not to increase those items because we were not going to have enough children and girls and families to be able to attend. You tell me to increase the amounts or stretch, and what am I going to get? From 400 euros to 900, stretching, increasing in how much? 600? Do you think that for 200 euros more I will be able to improve the birth rate? Mrs Garrido, I think we do issues and implement policies that are more serious than all that. And yes, there has been a real commitment on the part of this Government to reverse the cuts that resulted from a very complex economic crisis and that forced all administrations to adjust their budgets. In 2014 we had 47 million budget in aid to reconciliation and births, and right now in 2018, with approved budget, 69 and a half million. And the proposal we had made in the budget for 2019 was 79 in this type of aid. So, Mrs Garrido, do not tell me that we have not reversed the cuts that have occurred and that we do not support families. I really believe that they must go beyond the message they are trying to convey to society that this Government does not trust the families, that it is not supporting them, when we are also doing so in the hands of the associations working in this area. We have had to carry out that stork, I think we are guiding it towards objectives and a proper route, and in that stork change I love you Mrs. Garrido, I want you to be with us trying to support the Basque families in a real way. We are moving forward in the development of these measures, and I say this with appreciation and conviction of your interest, but you must move forward in your speech, Mrs Garrido. The budgets of the Autonomous Community that you have rejected meant more support for our families, for youth, for our elderly and for the most vulnerable, and for welfare in general. And they are progress in supporting families and reconciliation and co-responsibility provided for in our draft budgets, which you have not supported, thereby harming those young people and those families and society in general. This situation, Mrs Garrido, is disappointing and worrying, but Basque society will take it into account. Now, given this new budgetary situation, we will have to prioritize and adopt the measures that this Government considers necessary for the protection and support of families and for them to materialize. And have no doubt we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interadectition, Euke Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief of the United States and Society, to guarantee the rights of children and teenages in separations or divorces." Mrs. Arana, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u93	Hello. Good noon, everyone. The chief physician, the head of the table, the members of the legislature. From Elkarrekin We are concerned about the situation of children and adolescents who may be restricted in exercising their rights when there are family crises leading to separations or divorces from parents. Whether or not there is a relationship with children or the quality of the relationship between parents, the rights of children and adolescents must be protected by adults. However, we have all certainly known family situations or stories in which, after separation or divorce, the fulfilment of parents'obligations with regard to children becomes part of the conflict. And often the one known as alimony becomes unfortunately a battle horse. For those of us who are not familiar with the words used in the legal sphere, I share the view that the maintenance pension consists essentially of the amount fixed for children, I repeat, the amount fixed for children and that serves to meet all the ordinary expenses arising from their process of development, upbringing and, therefore, exercise of their rights. They are all those predictable and periodic expenses necessary for their maintenance; they include food, clothing, personal items, education, health care and decent housing in which to grow. Generally, it is established that a parent who does not take custody of minors, that is, a parent who does not take responsibility for their daily well-being, who does not live together day by day, makes his/her contribution and fulfils his/her obligation, inter alia, through maintenance. All of them are basic responsibilities that all of us who decide to raise daughters and children must assume, whether or not there is daily coexistence in the same home. Responsibilities for sons and daughters who, as we well know, extend for years in some cases, and even throughout their entire lives. I stress this last one because I want to use this rostrum to underline the importance of putting the welfare of children at the centre when it comes to these issues, because on some occasion on the street, in informal media or in informal settings I have heard how the maintenance pension is disqualified, neither is it called into question, because it is confused with an economic income intended for the parent who assumes custody. It is important that these kinds of confusions do not spread. If we analyze the separations or divorces and custody that are established by incorporating the gender perspective with data disaggregated by sex, in the first place we will find that it is still women primarily who assume custody, since it is fully consistent with a society that continues to place in the women of families the ultimate responsibility to care, raise and provide welfare to children. This is how families are organized during cohabitation and this is how it continues to be done from the moment separation occurs, in fact, the percentage of parents who assume custody entirely is anecdotal, 4.2% in 2016 There are data that tells us that fortunately, progressively, reality is changing. According to the latest annual report published by Emakunde on the situation of women and men in Euskadi, the joint custody of parents in divorce cases shows a very rapid development. In four years this modality has increased from 17.5 % to 34.3 %, i.e. almost doubled. Undoubtedly, it is directly linked to the fact that men increasingly exercise a more responsible fatherhood from the very birth, are more present and committed to the daily care necessary for the development of children and adolescents. However, despite this development that invites us to be somewhat optimistic, let us not forget that today the most common option is still custody exercised by mothers, 61.5%; while cases of custody exclusively of parents are very few, just 4.2%. The data on maintenance are directly related to the data we have just seen, the maintenance of children is usually recorded in the separation and divorce sentences when it is necessary to pay maintenance, and in the resolutions in which it is appropriate to pay the pension it is more common for parents to be attributed in 39% of the cases. It is also common for both parents to face these pensions jointly, at 18.6 per cent. Among the main consequences of separations and divorces are the reduction or loss of income and the purchasing capacity of the family as a whole, and this particularly affects the new core of coexistence, which is made up of sons and daughters and the adult person taking custody. Indeed, in some cases situations of poverty or risk of social exclusion may arise, and, according to various specialists in this field, this situation can be aggravated when it is women who have custody of their children, which, as we have seen, is still the most frequent circumstance. It can be concluded that there is a high percentage of women who take custody of children and have to cope with the new situation in worse economic conditions than in the previous situation. To this rather generalised picture it is added that in some cases the maintenance pension becomes the battle horse, and the number of parents who do not comply with that obligation is significant. These are situations involving a single parent, all the obligations for the well-being of her children to a single parent, thus increasing the risk that girls, boys and adolescents will see their opportunities for the development and exercise of their rights undermined. The annual report of the Office of the Prosecutor provides representative data on these situations. In the Bizkaia case, of 661 offences against family relations, 486 were for unpaid pensions. In the case of Gipuzkoa, on the same line, 464 cases, 307 were for unpaid pensions, and in Araba, of the 147 offences against family relations, 121 were for unpaid pensions. As we see, in the three territories, unpaid pensions are a more than significant issue in what are called crimes against family relations. These are just a few cases that come to the courts, it's representative, but all the specialists agree that there are many more than they actually complain about. For all this, our concern is that the rights of children and adolescents will not be undermined when parents fail to fulfil their obligations; we firmly believe that action should and can be taken to protect when families and direct managers do not respond properly, and that these situations also place an all-out burden on the parents who have to cope alone with the well-being of children and with complex family and judicial processes. We would like to know, as we mentioned in the registered initiative, Mrs Artolazabal, what specific measures the Basque Government is promoting to ensure the exercise of the rights of children and adolescents in situations of separation and divorce that put them at risk, because one of the parents does not fulfil his obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u95	Eskerrik asko berriro, president andrea. Mrs Arana, we too have that concern that you have expressed today in this rostrum, and our action is in line with the existing regulations in those areas in which we are competent. In this case, in order to guarantee the rights of children and adolescents in the event of a breakdown or separation of parents, we owe ourselves to the implementation of two laws: On the one hand, Act No. 3/2005 on the care and protection of children and adolescents and, on the other hand, Act No. 7/2015 on family relations in the form of separation or break-up of parents. The Care and Protection of Children and Adolescents Act provides us with a normative framework in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989. With the adoption of this law, children have gone from being protected to being a subject of rights. And one of those rights that is to be guaranteed by this law is the right to protection. In this regard, an instrument has been developed by the Basque Government in collaboration with the rest of the institutions for the assessment of the seriousness of situations of risk and helplessness regulated by Decree 152/2017, colloquially called a This instrument, which is also used to assess the risks of minors in situations of couple breakup, is something that is especially helping us to identify these situations of risk, especially the diputations and municipalities, which are the institutions that use them. This instrument has been designed to be applied, as I said, to municipal social services and also to services for the care and protection of children and adolescents of outlaws. Thus, in the execution of their competences, they can analyse and determine situations of risk and helplessness linked to the exercise of the duties of protection for the custody of children and adolescents by their parents or guardians. And through the use of this tool, professionals can anticipate and intervene in situations of risk of unprotection, which are the ones that can occur when parents fail to meet their obligations in case of separation or divorce. That instrument has been updated by decree – 152/2017 – last May, with the aim of improving it and adapting it to new needs and situations, and one of them may be the case that you brought us today to the rostrum. The Children's Act, on the other hand, aims to ensure the exercise of rights in children, thus establishing the framework for action in which activities to promote the rights and well-being of children should be carried out. It also defines the principles of action and the competence and institutional framework in the field of the protection of children and adolescents. The inspiring principle of the Children and Adolescents Act states that public proceedings having a direct bearing on children and adolescents must be based on the best interests of the child; and our duty as an institution is to work for and by this principle of the best interests of the child, whether it be single-parent families, broken families or any type of family, our duty is to work so that Basque children and children can have equal opportunities in their development and integration. And we have been doing so and we have included it in the Basque Pact for Family Support and also in the IV Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support and also in the IV Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support. We understand that this work of protecting and supporting children is the responsibility of all institutional levels and also of the various areas of government. In the Fourth Family Plan, the fourth axis, in particular, is devoted exclusively to the welfare of children and adolescents, also in cases where parents break up or separate and have consequences for minors. And with regard to the second law that I told you, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, the Department of Family Relations in Suspects of Parent Breaking or Separation, makes the family mediation service available to Basque families. This service is public, free and voluntary, and is aimed at helping solve family conflicts, whether by breaking up the couple, marriages or de facto couples, or also by other circumstances arising in the family environment. It is available in all three territories and this service serves some 10,000 people annually. Eighty-five per cent of the intervention in this service is due to conflicts arising from the breakdowns of couples; 77 per cent of the cases completed in 2017 in the public family mediation services were closed with an agreement on the situation originally raised, which in many cases prevented service users from starting the litigation route, thus avoiding situations of unprotectiveness that could arise if there was no agreement between the parents on the protection of their children. In addition, we have analysed the agreements and whether or not they continue to be maintained over time, and we have found that, after a year, 94% of those who use family mediation services continue to be responsible for their agreements. But the situations in which no agreement is generated, in which there is no agreement, make it possible to create situations of unprotectiveness and, therefore, to activate the social protection system of Euskadi. In cases where the cohabitation unit with dependent minors who do not have sufficient income and need an income guarantee income, if there is a complaint by the spouse who does not receive the compensatory pension, can assert their rights and, with the complaint submitted by the court, they are no longer counted as income and are therefore granted the benefit. And in those cases where some of the parents contribute less than the amount set out in the regular agreement, Lanbide supplements this income up to the maximum amounts provided for in the income guarantee income regulation. As I said, it is everyone's duty to work to ensure the best interests of the child in any of the circumstances in which he or she finds himself or herself, and, within the framework of our competence as the Basque Government, we cater to children and adolescents who may be at risk of being unprotected. Therefore, Mrs Arana, we, within our competence, act in advance when there is a breakdown or conflict in the field of family mediation, and, if there is no such agreement between the parties and there is a breach of the regulatory agreement and there is a complaint because the party who has to receive such aid does not receive it, in the face of the complaint lodged in the courts, they go to Lanbide and they are granted income guarantee income directly, until there is a final judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u97	Thank you. Despite the measures it has presented, from Elkarrekin We believe that there is a wide margin of improvement in the protection of children and adolescents and in the real and effective access to their rights and, as we said in the first intervention, if we incorporate the gender perspective to analyze these situations, we will take into account that they are directly impacting and mainly on women, who are still exercising custody mostly. We are talking about a sector of the population, women, which is already part of a situation of disadvantage; according to the latest report on the wage gap made by Emakunde in the Basque Autonomous Community, there is a wage gap of 24.3%, that is, women in Euskadi earn 7.552 euros less than men, given, of course, that it has increased by 2.2 points compared to 2009, and all this with a Government, that of the PNV, and your Department, counselor, which continues to have reconciliation plans that deepen the wage gap, measures that you yourselves consider to be perverse for women and that continue to have it as relevant to equality; patriarchal policies in every rule, very style of the PNV, Mrs Artolazabal. It impacts women, of course, because their purchasing capacity, their economic autonomy, their ability to reconcile family and work life are significantly reduced, so that the risk of exclusion for the whole family can increase significantly. This type of situation undoubtedly contributes to fattening the phenomena known as infantilization and feminization of poverty, the two are closely related, we must tackle the causes of both simultaneously. The other day, my partner Tinixara Guanche provided some revealing data, some of them: 95.4 of the supplementary single-parent benefits are requested by women; 15.3 of the women receiving GIR are responsible for single-parent families; according to Emakunde, women suffer greater poverty in any of their dimensions and in a particularly serious way when they are women who lead families. The data confirm that in Euskadi we are not free from the phenomenon of the infantilization of poverty, around a quarter of children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to Eurostat's definition of poverty and social exclusion, a rate which has increased in Euskadi by five percentage points since 2010. With this scenario, we are lacking more firm gestures and steps to incorporate clearly and concretely the principle of the best interests of children and adolescents into the rules, regulations and procedures of the income guarantee system. Look, it has been pointed out on several occasions, and also from the Ararteko office, the need to review the sanctions when it comes to situations involving cohabitation units in which there are minors. On the basis of common sense and compliance with child protection standards, access to food for girls and boys should under no circumstances be put at risk. The measures that drive co-responsibility are primarily geared towards the co-responsibility of women and men within families; you always have problems solved in households and do not introduce a broader look than involve the whole of society. When policies are made based on a family model, heterosexual, traditional and always happy, the children in charge of a single parent are cut off from their right to care for those living with two parents, and women have to assume, in a career of substance and full of obstacles, everything necessary for the well-being of children, including the obstacles that are the perverse measures by the Government. The Government, through Emakunde, has also made recommendations in the evaluation of the gender impact on social exclusion and poverty, which it published this year. In particular, on the subject of maintenance pensions, mention is made of this paragraph of the Equality Act, which in its intervention has forgotten to mention: "The Basque public administrations shall promote the legal and economic measures necessary to improve the conditions of persons who are in a situation of economic precariousness, arising from compensatory and maintenance pensions laid down in a legally approved agreement or judicial decision, in cases of marital nullity, legal separation, divorce, termination of the partner by breaking or filiation or maintenance proceedings. To this end, they shall establish a guarantee fund for situations of non-payment of pensions and establish supplements for the lowest widowhood pensions." We would like you to expand training and information on the scope for improvement of these specific issues that we are mentioning to you, especially this last paragraph that I have just read of the Equality Act, which is mentioned in the 2018 Emakunde report, as an equality mandate that is pending to be fulfilled. Let's see if we leave the big headlines and you can answer this, Mrs Artolazabal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u98	Eskerrik asko, Arana anderea. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u99	Eskerrik asko berriro, president anderea. Well, I, Mrs Arana, would like to comment that the style of the PNV and the Government in general is to protect citizens as a whole, especially the most vulnerable or vulnerable people. The aid you are referring to, in terms of consolidating and perpetuating women's inequality over men, is under review and is something that we too have detected within the department, and we believe that it is necessary and necessary to take a turn and in that we can agree, but, well, as long as we do not have the perfect alternative we prefer to keep them at this time, with the aim of continuing to help those people who may be entitled to them. You tell me that, well, that we have and that we perpetuate inequalities, that we don't do everything we can do. I, Mrs Arana, would like to focus on the fulfilment of the obligations and duties that I as an institution have and have with regard to care and protection. And we have to make clear the different institutional plans. The Children and Adolescents Act tells us that outlaws and municipalities are responsible for the conduct of protection proceedings, in a situation of grave and helpless protection; it then assigns to the Government, also to the parliaments and municipalities, but in general to the Government, the functions of raising public awareness; and, finally, it is our competence to direct government action in the execution of actions relating to the provision of information, guidance and preparation and approval of assessment instruments and implementing protocols that I have previously mentioned in situations of risk and helplessness. We have improved the Balora instrument But also from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, we work for the welfare of children and adolescents, regardless of what other institutions do. And of course, Mrs Arana, we do it without considering what the family structure is. In other words, we cannot be accused of doing patriarchal policies and only thinking about heterosexuality. Listen, no, that we have been developing for a long time, we have been demonstrating with facts the determined commitment of this Government to diversity as a whole, because this common society, in which we all have room, has different diversity to which we have to address. And of course, I think it's all better and I'm not going to say that they can't be improved and that's what we're about and that's what we're about. But that we take into account the different situations and diversity and, of course, the different types of family that are taking place in this country and I believe that in the previous inquiry made by Mrs Garrido and that you too have on numerous occasions moved us, I have recognized it and so it appears in all our initiatives. In addition to the mediation service, we also have and have a service called Zeuk Esan. This service listens to children, girls, adolescents and also to adults who detect situations of risk to minors and carry out all kinds of consultations. And given that discomfort that can sometimes be generated in a situation of separation from parents, we have these channels in which the listening and support of families is found. I would like to end this intervention by saying that those who are in a vulnerable situation because one of the parents has not been able or does not give him the real desire to be able to have or to have to meet his obligations, from the social protection system that we have in this country, we come to his help in order to be able to offer them sufficient resources to enable such situations of child poverty to be given, or complex situations in the family area due to the failure of one of the parents, to be taken into account and protected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpelation, made by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education, in order to ensure the stability of the contract to the professors of education projects." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u101	Good afternoon, Mrs. Uriart. Collecting the Basque Country has some obsessions and I won't deny them, they're having two of them: one, which ought to answer in a troublesome state, or in a complex state, to add human resources to the schools, to the perfilekin, the equality of the students, and to the taste of the schools. The other obsession is the stability of the teachers. To stabilize professors in schools to continue the educational projects in order to become potent and powerful in schools, to know the students who have spent years and years of their education, this proximity to the everyday. After all, for the success of the school, the stability of teachers in schools is indispensable and the harpsichord is necessary. This is not only from a point of view of teachers, but to give continuity to education projects, to strengthen education projects, it is absolutely necessary to stabilize teachers in schools. We've been very weak in the last few years, we're going the wrong way. And from the very beginning of legislation we have insisted on making and producing these two obsessions to come to pass. In this sense we made a proposition in March or April, which was discussed in June, and protected by all the groups of the legislature. Today, Mrs. Renart, what we want to know is what you're doing at this Chamber to do, bring it to reality, to the Board of Education, to the table of education on which negotiations are conducting negotiations, to the table of planning. That is to say, in order to keep the professors in vacant jobs, by public offer, until he has that square, or if he has any property, until he returns to the owner. We want to know whether, for that matter, the approach is taken-that is to say, the diameter of the districts. We also want to know if this will be a cycle, that is to say, cycles will be considered, three or four years, according to which they will coordinate and combine the transfers, public offer, or perhaps we want to know if you are considering other parameters or other criteria. We also want to know if you're looking at other options for the stability of the teachers. For example, the departure of the consolidation process. On the other hand, EH collecter had made some amendments to the articulate bill of budgets 2019, in order to enable the process of consolidation, and to give it a frame of law. We have a problem especially with the means that have worked for years and years, that is, with human resources, with those teachers. For different reasons, they remain without fixed jobs, they've been working for many years, and I don't think this is just a problem in the Board of Education. The same is true of the members of the community, even in the general administration. How many teachers do we have like that? A lot. There's one of the main challenges. Is that good for the system? No, that's not good for the system. But we're worried about the latest news we've been reading in the past, Mrs. Uriere, we don't know what's been happening on the media or what you've done official and what you've been telling us about. We're seeing that the Board of Education is changing or mixing, or perhaps it has a clear purpose, and it's not a challenge that they've been working for many years, and that they've been working for the past few years, but it's their purpose to make this purse difficult for the teachers to save a few sous for years. But I want to think it's not like that. Why do I say this? Because it is hard for us to understand that the offer of labour is public, and that so many criteria have been made by the public, and others that exceed the study, and are left without the square to reward five times the score, we do not see logic, because we think it is neither head nor foot, because it would break all the balance, because the list would destroy them. Because it would allow us not to change generation in a natural way, because it would be unnatural, and also because it would give no solution to our problem. So nothing was going to work out, and it would also destroy what works. And we don't understand, we've been turning, but we don't understand what's behind that. Maybe you can explain it to us yourself today. And the Board of Education seems to understand public work offers as one way to solve stability by means of an intermediate in Madrid's hands. In fact, a specialist from the Medical Department has just come to us, who is an expert in public function, and has placed a very interesting report on the table, that the model between public offers is obviously out of date, not only in the Medical Department, but in the whole public function. Again, when he says that we have in legally, and even in accordance with our regulations, there are gaps and means of applying certain measures. So we think we can be in an interesting moment to turn around the resources we've had so far, and the Board of Education must also consider. But, today, I'd like you to thank me for the stability of your teachers, if you'd like to give us your plans and whatever you're doing. In order to be more specific, this house was unanimously accepted if you could explain to us what you are doing. Thank you. Did you get them? I love you, Mrs. Uriart, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u102	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs. Ubera, as I have so often remarked, agreeing with the government program in this legislation, the fundamental commitment of this department is to wager for the stability of the teachers by means of the appeal of annual public employment. We cannot forget that it is the principal cause of the transfer of the professor and the improvement of education. Our engagement is, as we have so often remarked, doubtful as to the calling of public professions, because we are convinced that it is one of the most effective bets we can do to improve the quality of the education system. We want the best teachers for our students, the powerful teachers, commitments, commitments, and prestige, the foundation and key of an excellent education. At the same time, by public offers of work, the Board of Education wishes to create and encourage high-added public employments, both in the personal or family rank, provided by hundreds of teaching workers. First, and in this sense, as you may remember, in the public offer of 2007, there were 740 jobs in the professor's company. At the same time, at the previous legislation, we had two other public offers of work: one for my teacher in 2015, one for my teacher 275, and the other for my job in 2016, the 577th of the Second Education. From this starting point we treated several other subjects with the unional agents, under the consent of the union with the majority in May. This agreement, as well as the other, contains literally words: The Department of Education does its purpose of dropping provisionally as much as possible. The Board of Education has shown the commitment to making at least 5,000 public work offers for the purpose of calling out as many jobs as possible. To maintain this commitment, therefore, the public offer of the year has been offered 1,511 jobs. To join the professors of second education and the technical instructors of the profession. Specifically, the 1,337 second high school and the 194 profession techniques. But, as has been said, we have been engaged every year to call him a term, and we think it necessary to continue in calling jobs, in order to offer more labour to professors of the euscal educational system, which will at the same time make the education system more solid by means of the quality of discipline. So, to continue fulfilling our engagements, on November 26th, 2019, we announced that a new public offer will be made. We announced that it would be called 1,825 Square for the Master World's Communion. Also, on December 5th, our department has announced that in the offer of public employment in 2019 he will call the new 70 Square, besides the 1,825 plates foretold. The following are these: It's 32 Square for the professors of the music story. 10 squares for professors of official language schools, 28 for language inspectors. In these Squares the career officials may also be introduced. With this new decision, EPE gathers 1,895 squares into all of them. This new offering, which is to be performed in 2019, follows from those which are performed in 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018. The legal, security, and legal guarantees, are also in the new offer, in order to appreciate the work of professors who endeavour to prepare it, with the protection of their hopes and illusions. It is the desire of the Ministry of Education to continue to descend the provisional rate of education through this legislation, at least at ten o'clock. It's the goal of placing the whole teacher on 17%. The new offer for Public Employment will be called at the beginning of 2019, where the names are determined, the trial-times and features, the days and all the other important information for this program's educational EPE. The department wagers for stability in all the collective professors, but, as I have said at first, the department has worked in other additional measures which influence the stability of the professors. I'd like to remind you this time of the year of this year's collective union with the social majority that represent them. Last March, agreements arrived at the steps of cooking and clean-cleaning collectives, and children's schools even at the level of the Patzeruer. Last April the agreement was signed in a special educational grade, and in May, as I have already observed, an agreement was made in the medical office of the professors. No doubt the terms agreed on will affect the improvement of the education system and collective conditions. Focusing on the latter agreement, it covers four areas: employment and stability, the substitution regime, the reinforcement of the staff of the centres according to their needs and the working conditions of the teaching staff. It develops key aspects for the education system and its professionals. Among other things, it is worth highlighting the following: commitment of more than 5,000 places in public employment during the current legislature, measures to reduce interinity and stability for interim teachers. Substitutions from day one at all stages, reinforcement of teaching staff in three-year classrooms, according to ratios; reinforcement of teaching staff in primary and secondary schools based on the index of educational needs of the centres. Increase in the number of staff in Vocational Training to attend to the euskaldunisation and dual training, allocation of administrative staff to the centres of Infantile and Primary, reduction of teaching hours by reason of age, payment to 100% and in all cases supplement of temporary incapacity, improvement in licenses and permits for reasons of family reconciliation or compatibility to complete teaching hours, among others. The department is working to apply an agreement with the operating unions to continue. As an example already taken, the supplementary assignment of professors has been made from 126 of what has been applied and applied. Another example, from the very beginning of the year, we are applying an opportunity for one of the officials of an age, a third's reduction for teachers above 60. We're making replacements from the first day. So, to answer your question, the whole department is replying to another proposal, as you mentioned in justification.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u104	Mrs. Uriarte, you haven't answered my interference. The examination was very precise, and this time I received the contents of what I asked you in writing. I read you, it's in your interpelation. The question was whether or not you were fulfilling the succession. I'll read your second point. "The Parliament asks the Board of Education to examine and establish the various opportunities of settling the professor into colleges with the unions, to obtain a regulation in order to settle the personal means in an empty job, as long as it is always filled by public offering or not going into the headlines, and giving him occasion to change places, and the nearness, when the approaches are possible." Second paragraph: "In this sense, as long as this regulation is obtained, the law requires the Board of Education, that the human resources may increase to the study of 2018-2019," "in that sense, blae, bla, and thou hast not answered anything about it. Look, do you know what you're talking about? And that's what I've been asking for an opening on the committee about the unions of education unions, and I've asked for an opening on the board, the interpenetration today around this subject, and you haven't answered me. And you don't have to tell me what you're doing, or the schedule level, or the educational table, and I want to know, I want to know what you're doing. I don't know, it's true I've asked you about public offers, but you're focused on public offers. I know it's very tempting to take advantage of this advocacy for publicity experience, and it's legitimate, but you don't answer me because today was a very exact question. Look, I'm glad that your bet is for the stability of the teachers, very well, very well, but you always mention public work offers, and I'll tell you one thing, the public offer is a means and it's not enough for us to see the problem. I have mentioned to you that our greatest problem with public offers is not enough, and besides, the model of public offers is shown that it is out of date, and that your hand is not fixed by decree from Madrid, it is regulated by the royal decree, by a copy of it. So, taking advantage of this moment, the report which an expert in public function has placed on the table, we could even reflect on the public offer, and open the road to new times, because we need the best teachers, but especially at this moment we must respond to the high rate of provisionalness we have now. For the students, for the sake of society, because we need continued education projects, stables, for the purpose of the school school, and we are very weak, we must give him an answer, and for that purpose we must give him a definite proposal at the Board of Education, and I want to know what you are doing, because this is urgent. There can be a lot of ways. There may be many ways, and may perhaps be spoken about this proposition, it may be flexible, or other means may be sought. But we have to give this $950,000 bag a solution, not just for teachers, for students. And one of these might be a chance to start the consolidation processes. And for this same purpose we have tried to open a path in the budget, in order that we might enable such stability by adding repentance to the articulate. So we have different ways, but the public offer isn't the only way, and it doesn't solve it. It's okay, it's just that we solve it, and we need other tools. This is one. And I just want to know what you're doing today. And then I put it on the table about the model of public offers and about the criteria, and I feel that the criteria you published are not appropriate and I've asked you for an explanation about it. So we end it and end it. Look, you said it was the year of the agreement. I'm glad. But do you know how we've come to these agreements? After a lot of long fights. Transitions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u106	Begira, Ubera andrea. As you have read: "The congressman asks the professor to examine and establish the different opportunities of settling in the schools with the unions." And I told you, while we're working on these things, that they're talking about these things in different forums and we owe them some respect because we have to discuss them at that table. Then we'll discuss with the operators, with the unions, what you're saying here, that's what we're respecting these forums and that's what we're doing. What are we doing? That's what you asked for. And here it is asked for resolution. So, here's the answer. While we're working, we can't discuss here what's working on other areas. And you also said that our criteria have been displayed in the press. I don't know what happened in the press, but we didn't throw it away. Osea And, as I said before, the department is still working to apply the agreement with the union operators. Although briefly I have spoken of an important part of this arrangement, signed at the professor's sactorial table, of the establishment, of provisionalness and stability. The measure, in this sense, is that of the four parts; the frequency of public employments, the measures of diminishing provisionalness, the stability of interinoes, and the principal processes of education. As for the first point, I should like again to remark, that after the employment completed at this call inLEP in 2019, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, the Board of Education adds a succession of duties to the public employment, and confirms the engagement of calling it an offering every year, by offering at least five thousand in the law. With regard to the second point, work is under way on various proposals for measures to reduce interinity through the analysis of the mode of provision of service commissions, transfer procedures and competitions, and the updating of job relationships. As regards the updating of job relations, we must also refer to the various proposals envisaged in the preliminary draft budgets for 2019, what to say. There is no doubt that part of these agreements must have their budgetary reflection, as you have acknowledged on various occasions; for you have decided not to support it. You've fired not backing him up. We call for co-responsibility, collaboration, involvement. We have reached agreements with the social partners and we already have their response and collaboration. Some of these agreements must be reflected in the budget, which you have not discussed. In the project of budgets in 2019, it was a bet for regulating list of jobs, increasing the number of workers in structure, within the camp of officials 308 squares, and within the circle of 40 working workers in education. On account of the stability of the temporary workers, the department is working and arguing with the most active societies. On this point general plan is as follows: that the intermediate officials who occupy empty employments may remain in such employments until the post is executed by rules or returned to the civil servants' headlines. Besides, the stability of temporary personalism will facilitate the license and license of interinos and civil servants. On account of the fourth and final point mentioned, the Board of Education proposes to resurrect the vicissitude of the process of workers. We're involved in this negotiation. Public work offers, move activities, rebarmation processes, or the assignments of intermediary at this time are processes that are performed every year. It cannot be denied that this frequency affects many motions in the cloisters and does not act for the sake of the stability of the system. Considering all this, the necessary stability of the cloister, and the rights of the workers, is proposed to re-establish the frequency of this process. I repeat, the department is still at work to give a proper shape to the points of the agreements obtained by the builders, based on consent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team, made to the head physician of Education, about Antonio Trueba College in Barakaldo." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u108	Berriro, Uriarte andrea. Do you think that what happened at the Barakal Trueba College answers a good planning and a model planning?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u110	Berriz, the president of the walk. Mrs. Ubera, that's right. The 4th of December, together with the Barakal Council, we reported the surprise that we had of the high school in the Second School, Antonio Trueba. Like I said, what a surprise situation. So planning was impossible. He had to act immediately after his decision to protect the safety of our students. We're very conscious of the confusion that could cause it in the school's education community. But as we are the Ministry of Education, we have considered our responsibilities and our transparency. It is well known that at the end of last year, Antonio Trueba BI became reborn and improved. These works of grandeur were planned on the plan of the underlying education in 2014-2018. During the first few months of the year these works began to increase the high school, with the addition of the building next to the main building, and the work that preceded the covering of the pillars, were found to be in a bad condition. The bad state of the added structure of the structure of the structure of the central building was decided to analyse it in the same way, in order to be able to recognize the real state of the main structure. The company hired on November 14th, 2018 gave us a technical order report and the department's construction service check. On November 29, 2018, construction service gave the report and it is recommended to leave the building on some structural privations which question the future use of the building. As soon as the situation is known to those responsible, the decision on the eviction of the centre is taken. A decision that we, as responsible administration, have taken, and in the face of a specific problem, we have given a solution; an unforeseen one, an unforeseen one. Once the different options have been analysed, we are convinced that it was the most appropriate one. One solution that goes by keeping all students in the same center and for that the only option was Artazu Goikoa. And now we are working on enabling the Minas building so that the students of Trueba can return to Barakaldo as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u112	An example of lack of planning, carelessness and neglect. You were doing catacombs and exams from February, and the works you planned ten years ago. On December 4th, early in the afternoon, the Board of Education decides for the building of the school, and for safety, the teachers, the students, out of it, let the workers come out and the school down, all of a sudden, hurrying and running. As you say, if it was for safety, well done, Mrs. Uriart, well done. But seeing you made up your mind, what does that mean? Until then, the students, the teachers, the workers, had been in a state of danger? Is that what you're saying? If that's the case, it's not forgiveness. And if not, why do you suddenly make up your mind, rush and run? We want to see a technical report, and we've asked for it because it seems to us that what's happened here is serious, you're from February, you're doing cats and exams, and we're standing in front of some work we've been telling you ten years ago. Now they've been camping for how long? We hope that in January Barakdoldin is recoiled by students and teachers. Now, Minas's students from Batxilergo are also students of education in Minas. Then the first Education in Alkara will also be located in Minas. We know we're looking for possibilities of the moment, but do we know that time can extend and we're going to put them all in Minas? No yard, no dining room, no place for physical education... I just want to remember what happened at the beginning of the legislation with La Milanros, you lost a chance, a chance for the need of Barakdo, there's an empty building for you. Why not, for example, take the first Education in Alkara and the Second Education to Minas? Do we have to put them all together? All 800 students in a building, from different ages? I think it's a lack of planning. And you're still on time, what do you know, Mrs. Uriart? The situation is a disturbing state of educational companies, and the situation is not at all proper, Mrs. Uriart. On the left hand, whatever the social condition is, it must be a strong, strong public school, to guarantee the equality of opportunity, to ensure the taste of the schools, and for that purpose requires a planning. And that's why we need a table of education to build in Barakdo, to make a planning, to put effective measurements on the short-term and to plan the length of time. Baradaldo has an incredible need of education, and in Barakdodo we must have an effective policy of education more than anywhere else, because the public school in Barakdold has been abandoned, it is filled with need, it is necessary, it is in the prestoria, it is necessary to give answers to the motion of the moment, but it must be planned for that purpose, with the local population of education, and for that purpose there must be a table of education with its school, and for that purpose a board for which it is to be identified, identified, identified, and to make a profound consequence of it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u114	The planning was impossible, and you know it well and we've taken the measures with all responsibility. And we're here to figure out how we've taken the measurements. That we have to study the planning and that you've put an initiation on it? Okay. That's another discussion. But at the present moment we have given an answer to what has happened, and, as I have told you before, the main goal is to guarantee security, the Board of Education has decided to transfer his students to another place at the moment, and to continue with the students in the course of this year. We're working to reduce the influences of this sudden event, and we're asking the whole school to work together and ask each other to understand each other. It is the intention of the department and the council that the students should return to Barkaldo as quickly as possible. The goal is to transfer all the students to Barakaldo Minas Building in January. The work and co-ordination of the two organizations are complete. On the other hand, considering the deficiencies of structure discovered in the building, the Board of Education has decided that Eukadin's oldest building has been fully reviewed if there was no operation on them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Joseph Ramon Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, about the fees given to investigators who are to receive aid from Dr. UPV/EHun." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u116	In the Basque Country University there are two kinds of contracts for researchers: one is that which they have before the doctor arrives, one of 9,000 euros; and the other, after having obtained a PhD, is 33,000 euros. But the state-class investigators don't charge that, and they have to pay the same wages legally. So my question is why they don't pay the same wages and see if you can do something about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u118	Mahaiburu andrea. Mr. Becerra, I'd like to begin by reminding you of the bet my entire department has made on the basis of the university education and the basic investigation strategy. So we will continue to stake firmly for excellence, specialization, and internationalization, because they are essential to the success of our university education and scientific politics. As you say, it must be remembered that the area of the building is wide, where many calling operators take possession of it. Beyond the university itself, the Basque Government and the various ministries of the Government of the State, there are calls financed by other entities and non-profit associations: Prado Museum, Spanish Association against Cancer, Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, among many others. Therefore, and in response to your question, the remuneration fixed in these calls – in all of them, including those of the department – varies according to the modality, the type of call and, above all, the dedication.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u120	Mrs. Uriarte, pay does not depend on the program, pay depends on the Science, Technology and Innovation Act. Article 22 of the Act states that the remuneration of State grant contracts shall not be less than that of research staff engaged in similar activities. That is, the research staff who have Juan de la Cierva and Ramón and Cajal scholarships, cannot charge less than the UPV research staff. You've spoken of excellence. I will give you an example of excellence: we have a doctorate cum laude with international mention. It's from the state. He has had research stays in the United Kingdom and the United States. It has had several impact publications at the international level, and of the two alternatives it had to go to Latin America with a contract to lead a research project, and the other was to get a Juan de la Cierva scholarship and come to the UPV to investigate. Take the second lane. How much would you pay as a Science and Research Officer for a person of this type? In the UPV by a postdoctoral researcher they are paid 33,000 euros. This person charges 21,500. 21,500 euros is what the UPV pays excellence, 1,410 euros in twelve pay. This, for example, to live in a population like Donostia and bet on the UPV. And in addition, a postdoctoral researcher like this, attracts a research project of several thousand euros to the University of the Basque Country. And I wonder, does the UPV have enough researchers of this size? The UPV is in the international rankings at 359. In the state ranking is the 41 of 61 in innovation and technological development. Do we have any investigators of this kind left? We cannot complement what the law says, which is that they cover the same thing as the UPV research staff. Where's the difference, that they've been hired by the UPV or that they have a state scholarship? Look, the Juan de la Cierva and Ramón and Cajal scholarships are the most prestigious scholarships at the state level, the most prestigious ones by the way. Each year, 4,000 people are presented and only one in 10 obtains them. And we have considered it; when these people have gone to complain to the vice-rector, he has said to them, "not having signed the contract." Do you think this is a response of a network, of a public university that is betting on science and technology? What I'm telling you is: to supplement the salaries of these people, it's between 40,000 and 60,000 euros. Not anymore. Not anymore. This is where we really value excellence in the UPV, where complementing these 20 people would lead us to that. It is the tenth part of any propaganda program that the Basque Government has right now on talent, entrepreneurship, innovation or R & D. And what I'm asking you is that, for that amount of money, you make them a Christmas present, which wouldn't be a gift, would be a recognition of your worthy work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u121	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Hate the walk.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u122	Mr. de Becerra, as I said on my first round, changes the price specified during the appeals to the aid after the doctor, to fashion, to the type of calling, and above all to care. As for the appeals which UV/EHU finances, as we have said in other cases in this Chamber, I want to remind you, in regard to the Universities, that he has the autonomy to act exactly as regards UV/EHU, and that this is limited by an administration, and more precisely by the capacity of the Euquisk. As in its States it is properly received in the first article, "Universidad del Pais Vasco/Euscal University is an institution of public law, which is in the service of society. It's the autonomy organization with legal personality and powers." What doctors are from the Board of Education, an educational policy given to personal investigators has been maintained. This pay policy sets progress based on the experience obtained in the progress of the career. Who sets the salary? In addition, the fundamental role of the Commission for Research, Development and Innovation set up to promote and coordinate the research effort of the university community, through its planning, analysis and evaluation, aimed at structuring, monitoring, improving and promoting an effective university system of science and technology. The committee assists the university's governing council in the planning, coordination, stimulation, control and evaluation of the development of research, and prepares proposals on the general research policy and priorities for action. It is the framework of this committee in which any proposal or measure of adequacy in relation to the remuneration policy of the research staff should be considered, if deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Gastés of the Basque Group, a member of the Society of Education, a group of patriots in capital capuatures on an Agression made by a member of the EHU student." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, what is happening in some faculties of the University of the Basque Country is a real shame and what happened just over 15 days ago is an unacceptable scandal, that a group of hooded cafres chased, searched and eventually ended up beating a young student of the University of the Basque Country, of course, that besides not having the slightest justification, demands an urgent and compelling response from the Government to which you belong and uniquely from you. You have the political power to do something, to make decisions and correct this worrying drift that begins and continues to spread through the University of the Basque Country, where the law of the strongest, the most radical, the most phyloterrorist is imposed. Through this question, counselor, I want to know a very clear answer, what are you going to do with the political power you have so that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u125	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u126	Mahaiburu andrera berriz. Mr Semper, I would like to start my speech by reiterating my most absolute condemnation and rejection of the brutal aggression suffered by the student of the Faculty of Letters of the UPV/EHU last November 30 in the vicinity of the University Campus of Álava. I would also like to express my full support for the student and to express solidarity with his family and his academic environment. I also wish to transfer my support to the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and in particular to its rector, Nekane Balluerka. Intolition and use of violence can have no place either in society or in college, where one of its foundations is to defend ideas by word. I agree with the words mentioned by the President on this charge, 21th. the case of totalitarianism, which ought to be the model of advanced society, founded on the sovereignty of the century and of Eukadin, and on respect for the freedom of opinions. In these days of celebration of the anniversary of the University of Bilbao, which brings to memory the whole process and involvement of society, institutions, students, and the effort involved in the creation of a University of the Basque Country, I can only express and defend freedom of thought and freedom of opinion. They are two basic, universal and inalienable rights. On 5 December last, the University of the Basque Country issued an express condemnation statement of this unfortunate aggression. Along with the statement, with the aim of expressing the most absolute rejection of this aggression, the UPV/EHU summoned the entire university community to a concentration last Monday, December 10, at the main door of the Faculty of Letters. I am a part of UPV/EHU's concern about these kinds of actions and all those that may violate the fundamental rights of people. I am also aware of the measures they are taking to promote coexistence in peace and respect within their respective university autonomy, to which, in addition to maintaining coordination, we now express our support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u128	Counselor, words, concentrations, gestures of rejection are necessary, but they are insufficient. What is expected of a ruler, what should be expected of someone who has, as I have said before, top political responsibilities in a matter, is to make decisions that do something to correct something that doesn't work. And again I insist, you must be aware of the dimension of what we are talking about, the extraordinary relevance of what we are talking about. The University of the Basque Country allows spaces for intolerant groups, gives them locals, allows the indiscriminate placement of banners that pull out a terrorist organization, allows tributes and honours to terrorists. Last April I asked him about a tribute to a terrorist and I also asked him what you were going to do to correct it. Not only have they done nothing, but from those dusts come these muds, counselor. You have to be aware of the dimension of what we are talking about, because we are talking about a question of freedom, in a space that is the space of the word and of the free confrontation of ideas, of course it is. But you also have to be aware that this violation of freedom is accompanied by a violation of the prestige of the public university, that you are not able to appear in any international ranking as one of the most leading universities and that this, far from favoring it, greatly harms you, counselor. It is that we are faced with a double problem of freedom of the citizen and a problem of university prestige. And the two things, if you don't act, increase. Look, I'm going to give you an example. What would happen in this country? And this is a question I ask everyone, what would happen in this country if we at the Public University of the Basque Country knew that it allows, for example, the use of premises to a group that speaks and defends the superiority of the white race? It would seem like a scandal to us, as it is natural. What would happen if 15 energized hoodlums had chased a gay man and beaten him in college? It would have seemed like a scandal to us and you would have taken action and the university would have taken drastic and forceful action. But no, he was a kid. It's a boy, it's a collective, it's a human group that defends a political idea, the unity of Spain. And this may not force some to react forcefully. But above the idea of Spain or whatever they want to defend, we are talking about defending freedom at university. Counselor, I acted, do something. Don't come here and just say nice words. Come tell me what you're going to do, what you're going to do with your political responsibilities so that the fascists these hooded don't camp out wide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u129	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u130	Mr. Semper. You know perfectly well what the government's capacity for action is at the University of the Basque Country; you know perfectly well within university autonomy what measures are being taken, and the university is taking measures, is taking measures. He's got protocols. Recently it has tried a new regulation, the spaces have been opened, they cannot be closed spaces. Sir, you know very well that measures are being taken, but you cannot mix everything up to get some political results right now. It's not all worth it, it's not all worth it. You cannot use the university, niche of generation and knowledge and thought, yes, seed of debate, progress and consensus, to attack it for partisan interests. It's way out of place. Measures are taken either by one group or another, provided that there is a violation of rights. You know that this act of aggression is as cowardly as it is unpredictable, as you also know that the Ertzaintza keeps an investigation open; there have been some arrests and we will see what the judicial route is. But please don't take us to interested and partisan conjectures. In this chamber, as we have said in several other cases, the government has a clear attitude: he condemns and despises any action of self-control or praise, of which he has no respect for the ethical sphere, and of the sensibility of the victims, and consequently of any action which may cause him to suffer added. It's always been our attitude and it's clean, and the university's smart too. His attitude is clear and clear, and he takes measures. One thing you don't want, but he takes it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask the question of Juan Uria Serano, the parliamentary member of the Podemos to the head of the health department, of the citizens in the medical centres and the integrated health organizations of the OEI" (OEI). Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u132	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuok, councillor, colleagues and parliamentary compañeras. We were happy that citizen participation in health centres would be regulated. We were expecting and, in fact, drew the Official Gazette of the Basque Country of 11 July a decree on the integrated health organization of the public body of Osakidetza, with criteria of communication, transparency and participation. We read it slowly, we read it twice and we observed that citizen participation, citizen empowerment, participation of people, were functions of the management direction of the OSI, of the Integrated Care Directorate, of the Nursing Directorate, articles, 8, 11 and 12. And we went to the participation bodies, removing the Social and Health Council, there are two participation bodies: Article 17, the Clinical-Assistance Council and the Social Council, Article 21, whose composition suggests that of 14 members, 3 members will be from Community organisations or companies in the geographical scope of the OSI and will meet twice a year. We were frankly surprised. Do you not intend to establish, promote, enhance or develop the direct citizen participation of people in health centres?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u133	Thank you. Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u134	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon to all. The health department and the Osaides have a firm engagement for people and to participate. The commitment of the Department of Health and Osakidetza to people and citizen participation is firm, it is intrinsic to our strategic orientation, as you well know. In fact, citizen participation is one of the guiding principles of the Basque health system since the Ordering Act of 1997, together with the principles of universality, solidarity, equity and quality of service, all of which have since been present in each defined strategic plan or line. But we want to go further, we work to move towards an increasingly integrated, efficient and modern organization, where citizen participation has a greater presence. Thus, as you have acknowledged, it is explicitly reflected in Decree 100/2018 of 3 July of the integrated health organizations of the public body Osakidetza, adopted by the Governing Council a few months ago. So in answer to your question, yes, we have a regulation that regulates the cooperation of society. It is a decree with integrated sanitary institutions of the Medical Service at Osalia. The decree, which, as you know, was exposed, like all decrees, to public exposure, reflects all the approaches that in the field of citizen participation you made to us, exactly none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u135	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u136	Bakartxo Tjeria anderea, compañeros and compañeras. Indeed, of the approximately 400 health centres in Osakidetza, there is no direct citizen participation of people. You know, it's in all the strategy papers of the Department of Health, Osakidetza and the same government pact. There is consensus on the subject, it is not about who makes the most skilful speech, Mr. Counsellor, it is all said. The document that was prepared yesterday in the PSOE Government, recommendations of the Advisory Council on the Good Government of Basque Public Health, in the Bioef document, boosts the public participation of the Basque public health system 2015, in the white paper on democracy and citizen participation 2014, in the guide for the promotion of citizen participation in health, in subsidies. This is not a problem that we disagree on the words, it is in all the documents, you have explained it well. We are referring to the direct participation of people in health centers, to be informed, to participate in management, to participate in the decision-making process, and in the processes of evaluation of the quality and functioning of the health center. After all, social participation is to be willing to share power, which is the crux of the issue; that is what we are talking about. We do not know any experience in the more than 400 existing health centres in Euskadi. Complaints, complaints, suggestions, proposals do not exhaust citizen participation processes; surveys do not exhaust processes. They're okay, but let's not get confused; it's okay the Osasun Eskola, more than 6,000 patients, it's okay, let's not get confused, that's for self-management in health. It's okay the Osasun Sarea, let's not get confused, they're health promotion strategies, it's not participation in the management of the centers. I understand that you have a few problems, but we must all reflect on what is important and what is urgent in our jobs, because it is not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u138	The decree I mentioned above determines clearly that our ESIs place person in the centre. It is the principal end and axis of the persistence of the member of the person. Decree 100/2018 referred to above, in addition to placing people at the centre of existential activity, structures citizen participation as the central basis of organizations. Integrated health organisations, Mr Uria, hospitals and health centres. It explicitly includes citizen participation as an area of focus for its governing bodies and at the same time structures and promotes its participatory bodies. Thus, for the first time, these organs of participation in the ESI of the Osarists are for the first time the following: The Council of Clinicus, the Council of Society, and the Social Committee of Society. A Social Council is created which incorporates the vision of representatives from the municipal, foral, the community economic and social spheres of the territory of each health organization, completing the vision of care and, I have no doubt, enriching it. This Social Council advises the organisation and proposes improvements in social and Community matters. In other words, real, direct and effective citizen participation in organizations. The other degree of participation provided for in the decree is the socio-health commissions, an advisory and participation body composed of professionals of the OSI itself, representatives of the socio-health field, the community pharmacy, the municipalities and the social areas of the relevant deputies. As you can see, Mr. Uria, we're betting on the involvement. We are convinced that the improvement of participation and the support of the principle of public health system. Citizen participation concerns us, in fact we have included new bodies in the decree that did not previously exist, despite the absence of proposals in the public presentation of the decree. Thank you, Mr. Uria, for your question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Party of Carmelo Barrio Barroja Popula, made for Cultura and the head physician of the politics of Language, a few Houses concerning the activity of the Institute in Scotland." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, Counsellor Darpón, Mr. Zupiria, very good morning to you all. In a recent appearance, the Culture Advisor announced that the Etxepare Institute will be carrying out a programme of activities in Scotland in 2019. That is, Scotland 2019 headquarters or place where Etxepare will develop its functions in a priority way, with a special program in relation to what he himself highlighted, in Scotland. That is to say, we would like to know what is the reason that leads your department to prioritize Scotland as a cultural objective of the Basque Government, in this case through the Etxepare Institute. Is there perhaps no more capacity and possibilities for influence of Basque culture in some other parts of the world? We have an interest in the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u142	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Barrio, there are two principal reasons for paying special attention to Scotland in 2019. The first has to do with the strategic plan, the Euskadan Basque Country Strategy, which is seen as the prime land of Scotland. And the second reason concerns Scotland's festivals. On account of the importance of its content, and the interest which they produce throughout Europe, we believe that it may be very well adapted for extending the Euscal culture to the nation, and for extending the manufacturing manufactures among the nations. And the responsibility of this mission is that of the Homes Institute in our section.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u143	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u144	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. He has already told us, that is, a strategy through an institute with the characteristics of Etxepare, a strategy more political than cultural. This strategy of the Basque Government, in which it has chosen some regions for characteristics which coincide with the political ideology of the Government and which in this case have been prioritized in order to establish, in addition, cultural references. Because, let's see, festivals like those in Scotland I suppose there will be in many parts of the world and also more linked to the Basque presence, we have no doubt. I don't know. It's just that I've been watching the memory 2017, which is the last one from the Etxepare Institute, it's that there was no activity, I don't see any activity. There has been activity in other parts of the world, through chairs with universities, even in the artistic and cultural program there have been other references. It's just that there hasn't been any activity with Scotland. I mean, to prepare a special 2019 program with Scotland, not only does there have to be a political obligation, which is also channelled with an institute like Etxepare, right? You have to read what its purposes are, promote the teaching and use of Basque, Basque culture where there is Basque presence... I'm sure you're not in the house of Euscala. That is, we understand that there is a political approach here, not justified in time. There's euskal etxeas In short, Scotland which does not have only Basque presence, will be the object of a special program of the Etxepare Institute, because, well, because Scotland likes us politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u146	President andrea. Barrio jauna, I realized as soon as I pronounced the name Scotland in the Budget presentation that you got horny, and I expected this question. The year 2017, both because of Etxepare's impulse and because of the conventions and calls we have for the internationalization of Basque culture, as you may have seen in the memory of 2017, there was Basque representation in many cities of the Spanish State, in France, Belgium, Poland, Greece, Italy, Germany, United Kingdom, Croatia, Ukraine, United States, Mexico, Cuba, Portugal, Costa Rica, Uruguay, Italy, Argentina, Netherlands, Colombia, Sweden, Denmark, Cyprus, Hungary, Finland and Ireland. And I think the recent tour of the Euskadi Symphony Orchestra to Germany and Austria is also noteworthy. They are elements of the international projection of Basque culture in the fields of literature, music, dances and performing arts, visual and plastic arts, or in initiatives linked to Basque. in subtracting nothing from any of these projects, for 2019 Scotland is an initiative that we add to this international projection. And why Scotland? Scotland is a territory with which there are intense relations in areas as diverse as institutional, economic, scientific, cultural or tourist areas. I don't know why you haven't asked this question to my partner Arantxa Tapia, asking why Iberdrola is in Scotland. I think you should do it. The Basque Country strategy identifies different regions in Europe, in addition to the major European states with which to establish special relations and promote internationalisation. The international festivals of Scotland are not only an interesting platform to present the Basque creators to that country, but are a strategic place, Mr.Barrio, for the internationalization of artists and cultural companies because of the great impact these festivals have on the whole world, and in which so far there has been very little Basque presence. They are festivals that bring together international distributors and programmers and are therefore a special platform. And Etxepare aims to create special windows, Basque windows, with the aim of making known, and prestige the Basque language and culture in Scotland and, through its festivals, throughout the world. For this purpose, Basque creations are planned at the following festivals: Celtic Connections, Edinburgh International Book festival, Edinburgh International Film Festival, Fringe and academic content at the universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow and Skye. And it's not enough to want to be at these festivals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u147	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, my friend Llanos Gómez, a member of the Popula team, a member of the Security department, to study the aggressiveness done in Let Barpus of EHU's U.S. Faculty." LLANOS GÓMEZ andreak: Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Madam Counsellor, as we have told you before, organizations and people who do not respect fundamental rights continue to walk around the University of the Basque Country like Pedro. Individuals who point with their fingers to those who do not think like them, who pursue with the same cowardice that has always characterized them, and who clothe the walls of the university with threats. This is still happening in our university. This reality exists, and we are suffering it. Rather, we continue to suffer, because these thugs have not ceased to be, I have to remember here the numerous incidents that have occurred lately in the UPV. Individuals who act with comfort, with absolute impunity, with the same usual misery, knowing that nothing is going to happen to them. And with that same impunity two weeks ago they beat up a young Victorian man and sent him to the hospital. They kicked him just because he didn't share his fascist and thug ideas. He was beaten for defending freedom, for being able to think as he wished. And then they celebrated their fascist and cowardly feat with paintings scattered across the university campus. Because they continue to camp for nostalgic elements of that terrorist and fundamentalist past. The nostalgics of ETA, terrorism, fascism and totalitarianism continue to act. And very close to this Parliament, in the university, in the institution that should be the greatest exponent of respect and freedom of thought. Because it seems that some are dedicated to continue killing, and some seem to be not even students, but it doesn't matter. That is why I ask you, Madam Counsellor, that beyond condemnations and repudiation, that I am sure you feel it, and that I am sure you will say it again today here, beyond that, I ask you to answer me with facts. I ask you to explain to us in this Parliament whether it is normal for the Ertzaintza to have taken two weeks to identify a very small part, only two of the fifteen aggressors. That explains if it has, as the Ertzaintza says, long ago identified people linked to the left abertzale and linked to that past borroka Why doesn't he do anything? Why hasn't he done anything and allowed what happened 15 days ago to happen?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u148	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u149	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Indeed, you have said this and, unfortunately, violent aggressions of this kind that we have seen at the University of the Basque Country on the past 30th here in Gasteiz, we continue to see them elsewhere and it is true that in the face of the permanent exercise of coexistence for which most of us bet. They also occur from radical postulates, whatever colour they are, they continue to occur, and regardless of which postulate they are, violence is condemnable from all points of view, occurs where it occurs and occurs according to the criterion that occurs. And obviously, as you have rightly pointed out, you will always have all our reproach. But regardless of this, the Ertzaintza what it does, you ask me. He investigates, pursues and does the necessary work to take the evidence that incriminates the cause of any crime. The Ertzaintza has also acted on this occasion. I was wondering when you asked yourself why you hadn't stopped anyone from Ertzaintza yet. When the arrests took place, he asked why they had taken so long. Look, police investigations aren't easy. We've said it more than once. It is not easy to take evidence to incriminate the perpetrators of any crime and that is what Ertzaintza is working on. The Ertzaintza began to work on the investigation and the collection of testimonies immediately when it received the first call through 112 that this aggression, this brutal aggression, was being suffered. From there, the research work has continued, the research work has borne the first fruits, with those three people arrested, one of them already at liberty, the other two with charges and with the obligation to keep a distance to the campus, and the research remains open, Mrs Llanos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u150	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u151	Look, counselor. On many occasions we have the feeling that events like those that occurred two weeks ago in the UPV try to ignore them, that from different institutional responsibilities they coincide in that silent rhyme and that there is no action on the determination that deserve such gravity. It does not act in the face of tributes, it does not act in the face of intolerant acts; they do not denounce, they keep quiet, they choose to look elsewhere, while these groups make daily use of the faculties of the Basque university to make propaganda of their fascist and totalitarian ideology. And that's precisely why these thugs did what they did, because they feel unpunished, because they get protection so they can do what they want. What happened at the University of the Basque Country two weeks ago is a very serious fact, but, besides serious, because of the consequences it had for this young man, it is very serious because it is a symptom, because it shows that violence is still present in some spaces of Basque society. And the institutions, the UPV, from Education, and you, of Ertzaintza can't look elsewhere, can't act as if nothing happened at all. Because it does. Does it seem normal to you that it was the Civil Guard that had to act in the face of honors at the university? What's going on? That the Ertzaintza didn't know? What's going on? That I knew but that I couldn't act? We have some magnificent professionals in the Ertzaintza, I have no doubt, and that is why I find it difficult to believe that it took two weeks, two weeks to stop only two of the culprits. That's why I find it hard to believe that if they have already identified an absolutely violent part of those students or not students of the University of the Basque Country, they have done nothing, and allowed what has happened to happen...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u152	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u153	Mrs Llanos, I have told you about the performance of the Ertzaintza, in this case and in other cases. I've told you before that investigations are not easy and you should know that. And aside from political or personal assessments of the ideology of those who participated and to pretend to leave on this rostrum the feeling, as you say, that it is overlooked, to let some accusations be made that Ertzaintza does not defend the freedom and rights of all people, it seems to me that it is serious. It is very good to say that they consider themselves to be perfect professionals, when he has previously said that they overlook the commission of crimes. And it also gives the impression that you, or the People's Group, do not know, have informative sources that seem to have everything very clear, always very clear. One thing is suspicion and another is the evidence that incriminates and another is the evidence that proves that someone has participated in an action, that he has committed a crime. Between suspicion and indication and evidence linking people with a crime, there is an investigation and a collection of such evidence, and there is a lot of work behind. It is always a question of the culprits, whoever they are, with all the evidence that incriminate them, with all the evidence that argues and bases this conviction, going to court and, in addition, well, getting the sentence and punishment deserved. And in this case, the Ertzaintza investigations have given their results, there they are. It does not seem enough to him, nor does it seem convincing to him, and it also raises some suspicions about the Ertzaintza's own work here, and that does seem serious to me. In this case, the investigations, as I tell you, have borne fruit, there they are. The investigation remains open and will continue to work with the same seriousness, with the same rigour and with the defense and compliance with the rules and laws that every rule of law has granted us, now and forever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-12-14.u154	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-three in the afternoon.
