ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "To judge once for all the drawings of the whole of May 10, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule, as described by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez lópez López, the lawmate of the Pogilal Group, to provide Zuia and Urkabusta with constructions." We're going to vote together, we're going to vote for the half-pathal correction introduced by Podemos and Euskal Populars. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u1	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Team Membership, concerning the condition of young men. Discipline and final resolution. And now, Mr. EH Collector, it's yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all of you. I can't begin today's discussion as normal, because we're asking for it and we can't shut up. From the Basque Country, from the heart, our closest union to the people of Palestine, the Free Palestine. [[Applause]] And this is the initiative which the EH Collect has brought to the legislature today, which puts the employment necessary for our younger men's reception as a central element. In Diagnosticism and the reading of the situation, we will probably agree, because that's what's indisputable, and that's what's the reality of young people in our country. We can see, according to Eustat's charts, the development of the younger Basques to the whole population, how the percentage has descended from 2001 and how this decade still tends downward. In 2001, if young people were 21,6% heavy in the year, they're supposed to be lower than 13% today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u3	Please be quiet. Please be quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u4	With respect to the rate of fertility, EAE, Euscal Autonomia Ere, the rate that falls into the middle. And even if we had the rate of unemployment of the young population, to end with the Eustatian graphs, we can see that it is true that the growth of the rate of the young population has increased and tends to improve itself, but that in 2006 we had the rate of unemployment at 7,3, which is now less than 23,7%. Ohituta gaude ere, zoritxarrez, astero gure komunikabideetan, gure egunkarietan honelako titirarak irakurtzera: "When young people enter employment, they earn 24 % less than those who already work". The salary of less than 25 years is 895 euros. "El primer sueldo que ingras los jóvenes vas vascos hardly acanza los 900 euros," "Los jévenes vascos necesis al menos el 53 de sueldo para una vivienda." In this sense, I think, it shows what a challenge we have, and we must have a really profound change in the employment police for young men, in order to guarantee a worthy allowance for them. I brought these data here today, but we think we can't content ourselves with a superficial analysis of the hinges we have, and give answers from a economist view. And this we say because we think that they are planning in general from the prism of a discourse and uneasiness, the political and moderation of the young, connected with the finances of the type of well-being, and especially with the necessity of labour. Young people have to work to cotrate, children must have children before they can increase their birth rate and so on. So, if there's enough people, enough workers, there'll be enough quotes, the question's going to be a bit too big for some people to encourage them. I mean, in the center of the system, the economy is placed at the center and not the people, not the young. Oso adierazgarria da Jaurlaritzako Enpleguko Sailburuak, Artolazabal andreak, jardunaldi batzuetan adierazitakoa: "All this is not enough and therefore we have had to take a step forward, with a great country pact, to successfully address the challenge of improving our birth rates, so necessary to secure our pensions and to feed our companies' workforce." Source: Irekia. And we and we do not share that approach, mainly because it puts the needs of the economy and markets at the centre and not people. But it's just that he doesn't stand up for himself either. If not, explain to me why we want to have more sons and daughters if then many of them have to go out looking for life, that generation of young people so prepared, so much talked about, for whom there is no work here or what there is is so precarious that they have to go out in order to develop a decent life project. "Hemos nacido para vivir." We were born to live." That's what a young organization in this town said about the motto of a campaign that had been campaigned a couple of years ago. A fool, yes. But the burden and meaning of that fool behind him are enormous. "We were born to live." Think about it. And we believe that there is the essence of this political discussion, that is to say, of the life of the younger men at the centre, the necessity of designing, development, and realization, not of a mere economistist and productist view, as I have said before. The latest report on the implementation of the renewed framework for European cooperation in the field of youth 2010-18 highlights specific actions of youth policies focusing on social inclusion and youth training, including access to rights and political participation. The Council called for a greater contribution from youth policy to the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy. And the latest study, which dates back to 2015, on the value of youth work in the European Union, drawn up by the Commission itself, has highlighted the value of youth work for young people in different aspects of their lives. A study composed of reports by a group of experts on the creative and innovative potential of young people and approaches to the quality of youth work, reports that talk about the change of paradigm and that contain a series of recommendations on which to propose policies for the employment of young people and the creation of jobs that meet the characteristics of this population sector, rather than the other way around, as is being done so far and as these policies are being designed. And in the same way, CES, a Basque Economics, and a Board of Society, has in his last report a part of the position and conduct of the younger Basques, and in it the successor is received by a change of paradigma: "The changes to work will be more and more and more common, and adaptation will be indispensable in the human resources field." And I'd like to emphasize this, the following sentence: "There's no question of offering jobs. Other components must be offered and careful to focus on objects that can't be touched: the project of companies, engagements, confidence, confessions, springs, free time, and such elements must be laid upon the table, as far as possible, and says so far as it can account for the consequences of the Casalization of Casalization, and for the greater possibilities of moving human capital." So that no one can deny that we are faced with a change of paradigma, and we do not see in the government's employment plans, or in the gardens the measure or policy to answer this new paradigm, because it does not acknowledge this new paradigma, as well as others. And he gets the usual measures, the usual work trade, and the usual jobs he has designed for traditional professions, and that's why we've brought this proposal to him today, in the nicest things for the young fun of the job, for the sake of taking notice of the strategic and strategic plans. We believe that the agreement obtained last week had supposed a beginning of the transfer of direction, and that this change of direction is due to our present agreement. With today's agreement we strengthen the change of conception initiated in this regard after the agreement on the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020 last week. And therefore our enterprise proceeds from this point of view, because it would not seem to us that the same measures received in the 2014-2016 World would have been effective here and 2020. Because the report of the latest balance of the 2014-2016 Plan, on the other hand, is received in a very short way, in reference to the general bulletin of the Eplea Plane of 2014-2016, with the assistance of the early labor experience for young men, that it has been acquired at 28 percent of the expected issue. That's what's being recorded in the balance of the previous World's Plan for the young ones. As for the examination from the Genero View, as to the aid of the first experience, the participation of women has been rather small in certain programs, such as the first option and there only gets that they were 30% women. And in short, as far as the direction of the future and the future, he will receive a future employment plan, on the one hand, that he should combine the strategic point of view, we believe that we must place this change of paradigmama, and, on the other hand, the quantum. And now I shall discuss the privations of the employment policies addressed to the Eplegu Plans and the young men in that sense. So, in this case, it can hardly be understood how 2017-2020 of the Stratical Plan does not make any attempt either from the genus view or from the quantitative nature of the strategic ends to objectify or quantitative. Or, on the other hand, there is not a single indication of the quality of the job you want to create. It's the same thing. Young man on the planet, where we can't find any qualimatizers. If we go, all of them are "indicators, número de centestros, número de profesors, porcentacea prosorados, porcentacemas, cargos, porcentetas cargos, número de alumnos, numero de alumnas, satisfción," this can be Chromium, which is quite subjective, corro, rupet, porcentia, núméro de blessings." They're all quadrilaterals, they're all there. None of the qualimatists at all. And today, we're going to accept it unanimously, we're going to get that right a little bit. That's why we're glad and that's why we're asking the government to present a collision plan that will take them. At last, instead of a plan of collision, we have agreed to take measures in this direction in the yearly plans, and we think the agreement is good. The second proposal of the first point of the middle-point is not new in this Chamber, because it is agreed on the family policy and the demographic challenge, and because CES himself protects the proposal in his report, in the report before mentioned. Yes, but it was a year's term for the government, and this was not defined in the previous agreement. So that's another positive element to put in value in this big deal today. With regard to the youth law, we also welcome it, since it must be remembered that it is part of an agreement of the opposition groups, since the Government did not collect it in its legislative calendar, by the way, disregarding what was adopted in the opinion of the Youth Office of the last legislature, where it recommended that the next government in its legislative calendar collect the youth law, and that government ignored it. But, well, it's stuff from the past. Thanks to the work and the hard work of the political groups present here, we have finally managed to get the government to put the batteries in place and to bring a youth law to this House. It is going to have to start the processing of this law, because we have agreed and collected it before 30 July this year. And what we believe is more important and is also reflected in today's agreement, introducing qualitative measures for the emancipation of young people and establishing sufficient resources in the budgets for their implementation. For us and for us this is important, because it is, as I said, a law that the government did not want, and that through the work and the insistence of the other political groups will have to bring to the House. And, through today's agreement, the groups forming the Government join in this request and, moreover, in the terms mentioned above: qualitative measures and budget. A good agreement, another positive agreement, therefore, today. And, of course, to place the prospective work of the profession as a major instrument for the development of 2017-20 of the World Extras, which has been the suggestion that we had brought in the week before, and which we reproduce in a very positive manner, and which is to be considered and received in this agreement by the Young Employgian. We think, therefore, that though it be a little with difficulty and little by little, we are discussing this political discussion in order to place your position in the heart of the Government in the right direction, and in this sense we rejoice. And, of course, we thank all the political teams for the agreement, but above all for the reflection and effort which some of them had anticipated to move a little from the positions they had taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Bollain, the word is wood.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Artola generous, gentlemen. Mr. Estara has already explained the circumstances of this middle course quite well, and, in fact, I am also glad of this agreement. I thank you, because we've had the year and the 1st Union, the Populars, and we've got to follow this law and thank them for entering into this agreement on the side of the government today. So, as Mr. Estarrona himself has shown, I will make my speech a little more general, and, although it is a severe situation for us, for the young, I hope that we may advance a step this time. Nevertheless, as we call it, I will give the government "un pequeño de pajas," because in the 23rd of March 2017 you have allowed this middle-class correction to be carried out, and have no interest in this, and whether, in this day, the two parties that support the government are included in the middle of the engagement. Because it is amazing, I would say, that you want to start the process of law now, before July 30, when in March 2017, exactly 14 months ago, the government was asked to bring the youth law to Parliament before the end of 2017, that is, five months ago. Our generation was told that we would study in order to have a worthy future, and we studied, and despite that, as the Futureless Youth said, today much of the youth is without home, without curry and without pension, but we are a youth without fear and we will recover our future. And in this we continue, fighting for a decent job, for a worthy future, with which to be able to realize and live quietly. Because the most prepared generation we have ever had... we see how youth unemployment among people under the age of 25 in our Autonomous Community of Euskadi today stands at 27.7%, and these are really scandalous figures. I have already said in this rostrum, and I have also told Mrs Artolazabal in the committee, that in times of crisis, in times of economic recession, the number of unemployed people is increasing in all sectors of the population and there is no doubt about it. But for young people especially these periods are doubly problematic because, firstly, we are the first target of job cuts and, secondly, our transition from the education system to the labour market becomes an almost impossible task to carry out. And it is that while we are talking about the best prepared generation in the history of Euskadi, we are not being offered any framework that can channel such knowledge, and this, on the one hand, causes real frustration in so many young people, but, on the other hand, and from a social point of view at the general level, it is a total waste of this knowledge. The new situation of youth, therefore, is characterized by the difficulty of transition from academic to professional life, which also leads to a delay in emancipation. And on that meaning unfortunately the data speak for themselves. I have already said this more than once too, only 48 % of young people in Euskadi have emancipated and the average age to take the step is 30 years. 30 years, despite the fact that Basque youth themselves believe that the ideal age for this is 24. Look, in Europe the average age for independence is 26 years and yet in countries with effective employment policies, this age is reduced, as in Denmark, to 21 years, and only 16% of them live with their parents. What's the difference, isn't it, Mrs. Artolazabal? With this scenario, Mrs Artolazabal, you came to this Parliament to present a young plan very similar to that of four years ago, in which only 50% of the indicators established by the Basque Government itself were exceeded. Mr Estarrona said that there are no quantitative indicators in this new IV Youth Plan. But it is also that the quantitative indicators that appear in it are not quantified, and you come to present us with a plan without any, I repeat, quantified objective that allows us to see at first sight whether or not the objective has been met. And quantifying goals, Mrs Artolazabal, is crucial when it comes to knowing whether the strategy has worked or not. Let me read some of the objectives of this IV Youth Plan, which states that the evaluation will be carried out on the basis of the defined indicators. One objective is "Younger with quality employment", objective we share from Elkarrekin Podemos, and the indicators to see whether or not the numbers of young people hired are met, the number of young people benefiting from one of the scholarships, the number of young people who have returned to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi through the programmes promoted. What happens is that we don't know what the government's goal is, we don't even have the opportunity to debate about it. And in order to assess the achievement of this goal or not, we need to know what the Government's goal is. Another goal: "Improving the conditions of youth". Indicators: number of young people trained, number of companies that have hosted training days in their centres. How many young people, Mrs. Artolazabal? Is it the same thing to train two young people as 25,000? Which one do you keep, Mrs. Artolazabal? Another goal: "More Young Entrepreneurs". Indicators: number of enterprises created by young people, number of associated jobs. How many young enterprising people Mrs. Artolazabal? The ones you consider? The ones your government considers? How will this Parliament and society in general know whether or not the Fourth Youth Plan has been implemented? Should you believe what your government says without questioning it? Lehendakaritza presented in 2012 a document entitled "Guidelines for the development of government plans by departments", which literally states that "planning is closely linked to the availability and optimization of existing resources. Economic resources are the most compelling factor in addressing public policies, and the incorporation of the economic perspective is consistent with planning, giving it meaning. An out-of-date planning of a real economic perspective would not be more than a mere exercise of goodwill." Well, Mrs Artolazabal, please forget about substantial plans and mere exercises of goodwill. I would ask you to stop coming to this Parliament to submit plans without real economic planning as you have done with this IV Youth Plan, the IV Inclusion Plan or the Basque Strategy for the Homeless. Almost half of young Basques believe that next year they will not be able to live on their own despite their desire to do so, because unemployment, precarious employment and low pay prevail among young workers. But the precariousness of youth and their lack of opportunities go beyond employment: the lack of healthy leisure opportunities, the lack of a vision of youth justice as something that goes beyond crime, the investment in youth programs that goes beyond the Txartela Gazette as I have ever commented to you. Finally, that being young is to have a complexity of multidimensional factors that not only do not favor, but are currently hindering our ability to develop full lives as we choose to develop them. We believe that this has to change and that we must start by regulating some issues with a long look and a short step. That is why we are once again addressing the Youth Act, taking advantage of the existing instruments. Let us approach the Youth Act and establish a powerful framework, a framework that allows us to give our young people decent solutions. Let us fight for a future in which it is worth staying in Euskadi. A worthy future that focuses on employment, yes, but that is also capable of regulating and looking far beyond it. Mrs. Artolazabal, the way to start is to stop talking and start doing. So put the batteries on at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I would like to start with some of the speeches that took place last year, in a debate similar to this one, talking about young jobs. And that quote that young people are the present and the future is just waiting for them. I say this because it is repeated in several of the speeches we make. I believe that labelling young people as the future is a way of relegating them and preventing them from taking up cutting-edge spaces to influence really important issues. It seems that what you are really being told is that you have no alternatives for the present. Young people, however, do have them and demand from public administrations concrete answers to specific problems they have now, not that they want to be solved by the after. Those who currently have, therefore, and those who feel as threats to their future, especially in matters such as their employment, emancipation and the future of the welfare state. But also just and easy and peaceful coexistence or environmental sustainability. It is common among the people we have passed from the thirties, to continue to consider ourselves young. In the end it is a stage of life in which we experience so many changes and live so many emotions that we still want to keep that spirit for as long as it is. Attitude has nothing to do with age, but it is true that as young as we are, there are times that have passed. Although we feel a certain nostalgia for that, we cannot go back. And even assuming that we could, whoever wants to do so has to know that it has to comply with the consequences, because the situation of the young people, also of the Basques, as has been pointed out in various speeches in this plenary or in others and in various appearances, is a precarious situation. If you can go back and be young and you do, you have to put yourself in the place of a person like them, unemployed, with or without qualifications, with an overwhelming desire to access the labour market, and to see that he does not get it. Or that who gets it is for a short period of time and suffering all kinds of precariousness in employment, in wages and in life. I believe that many and many of us who are convinced of our ability to attract and resolve and care for all our young people need to know and really live what they are suffering. Regardless of the age of those people we have intervened and are going to intervene, and I think I am the oldest, the same can be said that the data tells us that perhaps going back to that situation that lives Basque youth is not the easiest. I am not going to abound in the data, because they have been repeated in the first of the speeches, also in the second. I should like to point out that we have a Euskadi who still has a high unemployment rate, higher than the European average, that unemployment is a problem for Basque youth, that one in ten young people is multi-employed, that temporality far exceeds the European average and that there has been a marked increase in partial employment. Only half of the young people in employment claim to have a job related to their training. One third of the employed youth under the age of 30 perceives the risk of loss or precariousness of their employment. It increases the percentage of those who have been unemployed for more than a year, who have been unemployed for a long time in young people and the age of emancipation, has been underlined in this institution more than once, it is 30 years, much higher than the European average. This is the reality, and this is the analysis. Here there are no vaguenesses and you have underlined it several of you. We are talking about a collective, the young people, especially the unemployed, who have to see how they are not recognised as professionals or who suffer a wage gap just because they are young. Young people in our country are perplexed today how we have set up a system among all, not only here but also outside of Euskadi, in which we assume age discrimination in the labour market. Therefore, I join that shared position, I believe, on which the basis of the motion submitted to ask for more or better employment, to improve, to ask for the improvement of working conditions in young people, to reduce their temporaryity and partiality in contracts and to include young people at risk of exclusion in employment. Therefore, we want to say that it is not understood that transit is extended over time, it has also been stressed, from education to work, and we aim to improve contracts in practice, training and learning, in order to avoid their fraudulent use, and that the contract of removal is resumed, because it is the only contractual modality that kept labour rights intact and also serves as a natural replacement for the person who is going to retire. I have said this before, I believe that on several occasions: if we want to end all these myths or remorse that affect our young people and our young people, we must end those frauds. To end them, we must address the priority challenge: emancipation and autonomous life. Here we have talked about comprehensive, cross-cutting responses that affect all youth policies, which is the Youth Bill. We are also talking about concrete employment proposals and we are talking about concrete housing proposals, as the Basque Government has done with rental aid. I understand that that is the complete one, which is what has been tried to translate with greater or lesser accuracy in the compromise amendment or proposal. There is a law that will be fully, not only cross-cutting, to tackle the challenges and problems of Basque youth, but we also have to address these two fundamental issues for emancipation and autonomous life: employment and housing. Housing, has been made recently, and employment, through this resolution or consensual motion, we believe it is possible. And to do so as they have explained and as it develops in the transactional amendment, addressing these new challenges from the paradigm of putting public policies in that strategic vision, both qualitative and quantitative, and from the prospective work of monitoring and control. We have previously shared with all those involved the gravity of the situation of Basque youth. Today, moreover, we share a motion that I believe faces, more or less correctly – it is also true that it could have been more in one sense or more in another – those problems as quickly as possible and above all with as much consensus as possible. It is true that the Employment Plan, which was discussed and received a consensus last week, could include those concrete measures, from that forward-looking vision that we all share. It was true that the most excluded groups had to be attended to, as he said in the second point, and it was also true that the youth law had to be brought as soon as possible. We introduced a youth law there by 2010. "Don't talk about yourself, which will be done when you leave." For many years later, fortunately, it will be done and will certainly count on the support of the Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Bollain, it's Thursday, it's not Friday today. I thought you were making an interpelation to the Chief Department and we're arguing about a motive. And besides, I've come to a sort of understanding with all of you, and, in fact, I've been surprised at your attitude. I'm not going in much, I think we ought to be glad for the agreement we made, and I'll stay with it today. We also agree with diagnosis and EH Collector and the Diagnosis of Podemos together. I'm not getting in the data again. We all know the facts. That's them, we can't deny them. And we have to try to turn it around, and we have to go on working on it with the institutions and the socialists. In the national model, we believe the welfare of society is important in order to continue. And we must return to the state of the young because, after all, if the employment of the younger is guaranteed, we shall have a great deal of success in the welfare of a whole society. And a change of direction was demanded in the initial motion of this change of paradigm, which now lives, as the EH Collect said, and we believe that it is so, and we do not deny it. But we think you've got an engagement and that you're starting to take steps in that transfer, just as I'm sure you've been doing since the moment the New Year was completed, the Director of Staff and Society was transferred to the Department of Police. It's very easy for us to-day to be most concerned about these young people, and it was a change made to reach it and to reach it in a more efficient manner, and we believe it was a very important change. And in that way, we had a discussion last week at the 2020-20-20-of-the-Years' Market, where the exact measures of raising young people's jobs are explained as the third major activities. And that's what they're talking about, getting through education, helping young approximating jobs, reforming jobs, reforming or reforming programmes, a young man's return, a young talent of training, a training for young people's jobs, a set of specific goals and indicators to achieve them all. So we think that they're starting to run the impact plan, or the measurements of the collisions, yes. IV. The young man's plan, and he's through this guy at the World Strague. And we often need to hear it, and even today, because it's done with little ambitions, we don't want it any more... I think what can't be done is as we have an economic situation we can't afford to offer. Finally, that would be depreciating. And Mr. Bollain was talking about the frustration of the young people. I think that what can cause frustration is that we'll get them to say that we'll have a lot of data from here and not get it next year. I think we need to know what reality really is, and I think it's a good idea what the reality is that we now live in and it's working on politics to turn it around. But we don't even have a magic key. We have to keep working, we have to keep going, stay on top of him. And that's the formula we've worked and worked together just like we've made today's deal. For we must be fully aware of the principle of reality, because it is very important to have feet on the ground in politics, because we must maintain that equilibrium between will and options. It's also about political leadership, and I'd say, young people, that we shouldn't be afraid, because when the President sets up those first-class lines of fun or commitments, he places them between the first goals to put in mind of the young people's condition. And even the chief physician has his different plans and measures for all this, and always by pushing them together, as is mentioned in the Eplegu Plan Extras, with the formulas, with the townships, with the Eucels, with manchom units, with local agencies, unions, commerce... Not only those, but you were training with the schools and the university. I think that there is a desire to return to it with all those who are responsible in society, and I believe that we have shown that wish to do so at the present day even from the legislature. And it's a job we've got today, and it's true that these young people are the topic that most concerns us at this moment, but that's not all that affects us young people. IV. When they came to present the young plan, they set up the image of the tree, and in that tree, with the foundations or roots of those basic elements or roots, for the performance, for work, education, and home together with health. But even if we have a taste for life, and have some other influences in our daily life, in order to be an active part of society, as culture, leisure, sport, share, social consumption, social justice, equality, we have as many others as we have. And I think we have our own criteria, autonomy, initiative, participation, solidarity, and the young people who are engaged to economic developments, and we need that, and that we have retained these values, in a great measure, because they have been the values we've been able to carry our people forward. Because when we are young, we want to participate in society, we want to create links, we commit, and we become active agents in the community's development. And we are. We are part of society. We don't form another special collective. It's true that we need help from school to work in that jump and we need to help, but we don't have aliens either, and in every department, the different policies that are taking effect on us. And IV. This same young plan was also mentioned in order to see how it is that the different measures which are taken in all the several parts of the world are formed in us, a desire to maintain this indirectness. Mr. Estarrona said that it was made from a economicist point of view, and I don't think it is so. I don't agree with that statement. I think that when you're talking about the things that young people care for most of us at the moment, it's important to come to that especially, but I think you've got a different angle and a full view of young people. So we don't think you're going to be crazy about the commitment to the young people, the commitment he's shown from the very beginning. I think the agreement we've made today is really a good deal. It is true that at first we were asked to make new plans, and I think that our team thinks it's more effective to put all those measures which this Congress has left behind in all the enterprises that are already active and the Amazing, because at last we must carry on with the help of everybody. And I congratulate you all, above all, Mr. Estarrona, for his effort. I think we've been able to penetrate the whole view, so we're happy and grateful. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselors. In the last regular plenary sessions we have discussed on several occasions the activities and plans presented to us by the Department of Employment, Social Policy and Youth headed by Mrs Artolazabal. Last Thursday, the groups as a whole moved towards a series of clarifications on the overall employment strategy, which all groups understood to be a little short, and that it was necessary to improve or point out some of the instruments at their disposal. And today, Mr Estarrona, on behalf of the EH Bildu Group, brings us a similar debate, similar, but focused on another collective, which is that of young people. When Mrs Artolazabal presented us with the 4th Youth Plan, she presented us with a situation at the beginning of the plan – she herself was It's a rather worrying situation. Today we have new data. There have been many, but today we have some new data. That data that Mrs Artolazabal provided to us in the Commission corresponded to 2017 and today we have the results of the EPA, the Euskadi labor report prepared by Mrs de la Rica, corresponding to the first quarter of 2018. And the data, unfortunately, is no better. They are different, because unemployment data cannot be compared with those of the EPA, because They are different parameters, but the data are not good. That report tells us that while the unemployment rate – EPA data, I insist – stands at 11.8%, that of young people rises to 27.7%. A tremendous fact, a demolishing fact. It is true that in 2009 more than 50 % or around 50 % of the unemployed among young people, but it is also true that before the crisis, in 2006, 54 out of every 100 young people who wanted to work had a job and today only 39,5 % of young people are working. The rest of the data: lower wages than the rest of the workers, a wage gap that averages around 20%, is another frankly overwhelming and worrying fact, a concentration of temporary employment... If it is true that three out of four jobs are already fixed, among young people the rate of temporality is much higher than among other groups. Then the situation is bad when this plan is presented to us and at the time when the overall employment strategy was presented. And the solutions, in the view of the agreement reached by all the groups, including those that support the Government, the solutions proposed by the Government were short, loose or needed a number of complements and, therefore, in today's matter there is an agreement of the five parliamentary groups. Let's focus on two issues. On the one hand – I feel that you are not interested in the subject, Mrs Artolazabal – on the one hand, on the subject of relay contracts, there are the important economic efforts that appear in the budgets so that young people can replace the people who are leaving the labour market because the retirement age comes. The results, as Mr Estarrona has said – and he has brought them very well into this debate and brought them to Mrs Artolazabal's inquiry – the data are devastating. They're a real scare. It's a waste of money. I mean, the plans are there, but nobody uses them. Something's wrong. And the measure Mrs Artolazabal is proposing is to continue with those same plans. Obviously, the parliamentary groups today are asking the Government to change that strategy, and we are saying that something needs to be done. And something must also be done to ensure that the jobs young people find are also a quality job, with decent wages. Obviously, when a young person replaces a retired person, who has been in a job for 30 or 40 years, performing a series of functions, with accumulated experience, with accumulated seniority, he cannot claim to have or receive the same salary as that person. But neither can we allow wages to be unworthy and employment to become precarious jobs. All the groups have also insisted on the same agreement, that the fundamental instrument that it has to carry out this function is Lanbide, an instrument that, although last week we insisted on having our hand, we had understood that Mrs. Artolazabal intended to pass Lanbide through the workshop and to make a series of arrangements for sheet and paint, and we recommended that she switch the engine to the vehicle so that she could make 100%. In view of the reform that is already under way and is now bringing us to Parliament, it now seems that you want to consult with us something that is already working, which basically refers to a change in the strategies of the people who work for Lanbide, and that is a change imposed, because the workers do not admit it, do not understand it and discuss it, and that is why they are going on strike. We understand that this engine change, indeed, the Counsellor has done so. And where he had to put a new engine, he's put us on an old motorcycle, which drowns and can barely keep going. That instrument was fundamental. In time, Mrs Artolazabal, we again reach out to you from the People's Group, so that this reform can be effective and achieve the goals that Basque society needs. The last point of the agreement or the last penultimate point of the agreement to which I have not yet referred is to urge the Government to bring us back the Youth Act. We asked him in March of last year. He turned down that warrant, told us they didn't have time. When they want to, they have time. Just slip a draft of a rule that is being processed by parliamentary groups that support the Government, bring it as a bill and all so happy, and it has already fulfilled the parliamentary mandate. They did not then and today we are told that before June they will get to work on that project. We had all understood that it was already done, that it was drafted, that it was in progress and that it was following the necessary steps by the Government. We trust – it is a euphemism – of course we trust that we will achieve that goal that we demand from them and that we will finally have before the end of this year a text that we can contribute to and that we can support and adopt with the maximum possible consensus and that will affect the youth of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Doesn't Estarron need to speak? Anyone else have a word? Yeah? Bollain, you got it? Well, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u14	Yes, very briefly, because I don't know whether I understood or didn't understand, or if there was a "tirón de pence" in the government... He said he'd be there, right? Baina, azken fine, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, asked Mrs Artolazabal if she was not interested in the subject. But he is not interested in the issue, as we know the opposition parties well, nor is he interested in answering in the committees, etc. Al final es un lago etcéera, que deced, señora Guurga, I said frustration. I also frustration, but it's frustration, Mrs. Artola generouss IV. To bring back the young plan, and not to know how to evaluate the legislatures. This young plan. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Frustration also means having a plan that does not quantify how to achieve these objectives of the plan. Frustration yes, Artolazabal anderek soilik borondate one erakustea IV. Plana gaste aurkezterakoan inolako perspektiba ekonomikorik gabe. He previously read a document presented by Lehendakaritza in 2012 "For the elaboration of government plans by departments" was entitled, and says the document: "The incorporation of the economic perspective is consistent with planning, giving it meaning. An out-of-date planning of a real economic perspective would not be more than a mere exercise of goodwill." It's just that that didn't just happen with the IV Youth Plan, Mrs. Gurutxaga, it happened with Mrs. Artolazabal's IV Inclusion Plan, it happened with Mrs. Artolazabal's Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons. In the end, we are giving freeway to do things wrong, do things wrong, age oraingo honetan, gauzak hobera aldatzea will say bilatuko dugu. Aho beats heldu gara, akordio beats heldu gara, and den horrella. Because I'm telling you, Mrs. Gurutxaga, that I, sure as you, want the best for our youth, and that is largely achieved not only, but largely with Mrs. Artolazabal doing things right, not with doing things wrong. And we do not have to give him the free way to present vagrants, as he has been presenting, without an economic perspective and without seeing how to assess the achievement or otherwise of those objectives, and goodwill in this Parliament. And I repeat, Mrs. Artolazabal, here now not present, speaking of youth... It has been more than a year and a half in the government and it is time for the batteries to be put in place at once, because if we do not, as we continue to do so, you, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, are going to end up as supporters of the government, who, as the proposed law for the reform of the GIR, are going to present at the end the proposed law for the Basque Youth Act, and we do not want that, we want the government to do it as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Anyone else? Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u16	Yes, thank you, Madam President, if you'll allow me from the seat. Firstly, most importantly, I think it is a good agreement and we need to know how to calibrate when agreements are good and, above all, whether they go further in a global perspective that was also given last week with regard to employment. I believe that Mr Estarrona was speaking in this respect, and I am grateful for the willingness to reach that agreement with the two groups, the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, in which we have been talking, because that is the issue. With the employment strategy no one was against it, but it is true that this strategy, together with the plan, can and must be complemented in these cases, as Mr Estarrona requested, with shock measures within that plan, and with measures to deal with exclusion, as well as with the presentation of the Youth Act, which all of us share, be done as soon as possible. I said, it's not about starring in anything. Some think that by talking a lot about them that's going to be possible. We realized that no, we introduced the Youth Act, did not come out. We also presented projects in the previous legislature, we were not supported either, but that is why we are not going to say that the people who did not support us have not done the right thing now, when we have agreed in this House mostly to bring that Youth Law and discuss it. So, even if I'm late, it's good that ends well. Thank you very much to the people who are now going to make this Youth Act possible and, finally, what the Basque youth really needs least, like the rest of the state, is burnt land. What is needed are concrete proposals from both a holistic and a particular point of view. Thank you very much to all who have made it possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Euneraries, Mrs. Guruga, are your words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u18	Yes, with your permission now, that it is only a pity to mention my seat when we have come to an agreement, and have made an agreement for the younger, to employ these groups for their particular benefits. I really think we should take things so far. Today we have a good deal for the young Basques. I also congratulate myself as a young man for having obtained such an arrangement, and I do not think it necessary to employ it in order to beat every one's position or government. I believe that every one has our position, that we must move to the agreements, and that this is the work of this legislature, to control the government, but also to work from here, to propose measures, and to be able to do all this efficiently. As for the law. that he will arrive, but the tramite must begin, and the tramit requires its time. That's all, I think, it's just that M. M. M.P.'s gonna do it when he says he's gonna do it, that he's not going to bring one of the laws of this law, but he's going to bring it in before summer, and we'll have it. And I really hope then that all the teams are ready to work and not only use the attitude of each one's party to mark it and make an opposition, and use it to work for the young ones. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Mr Ruiz de Abulo mustn't speak. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote EH Collect, together Podemos, Basque Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u20	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group of people, in all the politics and activities of the public administration, is the criterion of the chief interest of the child. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Podemos, Mrs. Tinixara, Mrs. Guanche, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u21	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, chief of the board, members of the Parliament, chief of the department. Says Eduardo Galeano in his book Patas Up According to the report on the state of children in the Unicef world, if current trends continue, 69 million girls and boys will die from preventable causes, 167 million girls and boys will live in poverty and 750 million women will still be married as girls by 2030, the deadline for sustainable development goals, unless the world focuses its efforts on the most vulnerable child situation. In January 2016, the Europol police intelligence agency estimated that some 10,000 children had disappeared as they crossed European borders. And I have chosen to start with this, because it is essential that we become aware of reality and in addition to that reality, children and adolescents are citizens and citizens who are in a situation of special vulnerability. All over the world, even in our own country. Our society grows old, and, moreover, the necessity of mature persons, by our own system, as well as of the interests of the public administration, are placed in the centre of the laws and public administration. And the specific needs and interests of these children and adolescents are omitted and decisions are made at the public policy level, but they do not end up being addressed, just as today, it seems that it does not end up interested in such an important thing for the highest representative of this Government. Girls, children and adolescents are often invisible on the political agenda as well as in the media and, unfortunately, too often they are only given space on the agenda...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u22	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u23	... when their rights are violated or are involved in episodes of violence. Childhood has always been underestimated by the adult world and, as Argentine jurist García Méndez puts it, "I recognize you, you have existence, but because of what you can't, you don't know, you shouldn't or you're not able to do." Macaconically, paternalism and authoritarianism that is criticized in other areas are reproduced from public policies. Macaconically the adult world is considered with the right to the absolute representation of the voice, needs and desires of children and adolescents, but without allowing them to participate, as that premise of the illustrated despotism that said "All for the people, but without the people", but applied to children. We are still trapped in concepts such as "minors", without considering childhood and adolescence as a whole and as citizens of full rights. We say this because we know that language is complex to change, but it is not an innocent act. The current institutional policy reproduces and enhances invisibility and adult centralism and does so, for example, when it does not apply the principle of the best interests of children and adolescents across borders in all public policies, which is what brings us here today. It reproduces the vulnerability of children and adolescents when it does not promote clear and determined policies for companies to be co-responsible and take concrete steps for reconciliation, allowing for greater and better development of children. It threatens the cohesion, equality and rights of all children and adolescents when it maintains an educational system that de facto He questioned the rights of all underage persons in the world with statements such as those issued by the highest official in this area, Mrs Artolazabal, this past Sunday and which go against the very Convention on the Rights of the Child. Have you read the Convention? Do us a favor, because if it's not ignorance I don't understand and, of course, I'm not going to share the adventurousness of your statements. I recall that the United Nations Convention defines a person under the age of 18 as a child. You have dropped that already with 15 or 16 because they are not so children and this is very serious, because if this is the Government's vision of how to protect children, what is being considered de facto is that girls and boys, if they are over 15 years of age, are not justified to have rights. Its rights and in substance what we bring here today are also recognized in the protection of our legislation, in addition to the above-mentioned Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed and ratified by the Government of the State. In saying what the highest representative of the Government said, and I quote, "The avalanche of mine is not a social problem, but a problem of immigration", he is, on the one hand, installing an idea of an avalanche, which in addition to absurdity is inhuman. On the other hand, he points out, without saying, that adolescents who come 15 or 16 years of age are no longer children and should be treated as adults. Do you think that's your job? I understand that the parties that support the Government, the parties that want to make this country a friendly place with children, seem to them that this is not appropriate. It is an irresponsible insinuation, full of a discriminatory, stigmatizing and fundamental rights-infringing burden. It is totally inappropriate for the highest representative of sectoral policies on children and, in addition, it adds to the nonsense that in the field of children and adolescents has been largely overtaken for years. It prioritizes the status of an immigrant on the condition of childhood, but then leaves out the need to protect the family in large empty headlines, as something that has us used to. That being said, it should not be the centre of my speech, because today we have a good agreement, I return to the subject, I return to the positive and the step forward that we are taking today by adopting this non-law proposal. He said that institutional policy, as we have seen, reproduces and enhances invisibility or unprotectiveness, sometimes justifying it. And so you can see that I'm not speaking abstractly, I'm going to give you some data. The figures on poverty, inequality and violence and the phenomenon of childish poverty are clear signs of what remains to be done to ensure that children and adolescents occupy their rightful place in society and in public policies. The data confirm that in Euskadi we are not free of this phenomenon. Also that the economic situation of the centres of coexistence has a direct impact on the present well-being and opportunities of children and adolescents, or rather on the lack of opportunities, in the future and is therefore compromising the project of an egalitarian, just and supportive society, which I know is to which we all aspire. Child poverty, being a partial concept that, I have said on many occasions, increases and increases at an alarming rate, more than for the rest of the population. 9% of boys and girls in the Basque Country live in severe poverty, 9%. This rate has increased in Euskadi by five percentage points since 2010 and is higher than that for the whole population, according to Unicef's 2017 report. According to Save The Children's report, also in 2017, inequality in children between 2008 and 2014, measured by the Gini index, has risen from 25.6 points to almost 28. The highest rates of child poverty are concentrated in single-maritime and foreign households. These economic data have a clear correlation in their life projects and access to their rights. In the education system there is a large gap in school performance. The student of national origin has an average score of 1.2 times higher than that of foreign origin and there is a lot, a lot to do also so that the rights of citizen participation are a concern and a priority, and not only "when the potatoes burn". Because in addition to being a central adult, our patriarchal society must also be called that generates inequality between women and men, and exerts violence against women because of the mere fact of being so, also from childhood. It is essential and unavoidable to incorporate a gender perspective into all policies, sectoral and universal, and to share it with the principle of the best interests of children and adolescents. Firstly, because girls and adolescents, such as minors and women, are exposed to dual discrimination, but also because the protection of these children and adolescents cannot and should not fall solely on women. Indeed, the phenomena of childishness of poverty and feminization of poverty are closely linked phenomena and a direct consequence of historical inequality and a lack of social co-responsibility in the care of those who need it. It is common to hear that girls and boys are the future, that we must face the challenges to their well-being because they are the future. But ladies and gentlemen, girls and boys and teenagers are the present, they are citizens today and citizens of the first. They won't win rights when they turn 18, they already do. Moreover, because of the life cycle in which they live, they require special policies and measures for their protection and for those rights to be fully realized, ensuring their future. In conclusion, we have a present with highly worrying indicators. There is a need for the Government, for public policies at all levels and in all areas, to intervene decisively to reverse the upward evolution of the childization of poverty and to genuinely promote the well-being of all children and adolescents in Euskadi, of which he is born here and of whom he lives here. There are numerous regulations in this regard and in Ararteko's words: "Consideration of the best interests of the child entails proper consideration of the needs of the child, means ensuring the full and effective enjoyment of all the rights recognized by the Convention. It is a substantive right, an interpretative legal principle and a rule of procedure." This implies that whenever a decision has to be made affecting a child, the decision-making process should include an estimate of the possible positive and negative impact on that child. In order to comply with the standards and, above all, with the aim of advancing in a society that ensures the well-being of all children and adolescents and the conditions necessary for the full development of all, public policies and all actions of the public administration must incorporate this principle, as well as maintain an adequate balance between universal policies aimed at promoting the well-being of children and specific approaches aimed at supporting the most disadvantaged. That is why we are bringing this initiative to Parliament today. No excuses. There have also been many arguments and rules of international and community for it. The Convent of the Rights of Children and Nerves ought to be enough, because we confirmed it more than 20 years ago. Today we are taking a step forward. I think we should congratulate ourselves. Today we agree to incorporate the principle of the best interests of the child in a cross-cutting way, as established by the rules, into all public policies and actions of the public administration, and we do so with a specific look at violence against them. I want to thank the generosity of the parties that are going to support this transaction and the willingness to take steps forward. And, in particular, thank you for the generosity of EH Bildu and the People's Party for reaching the compromise and willingness of the Nationalist Party and Socialist Party to vote for this agreement. I believe that today we are taking a step forward for the protection of children in Euskadi. We hope to continue working from the responsibility and willingness to take steps forward. Backwards, not even to gain momentum. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. This is the turn of the teams who have issued the corrections, the Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, chief physician. Well, as I'm told by the Tinisha, I think he's made a wide and accurate explanation, and we don't need to add a lot of things to that. But it is true that an interesting subject has come to discuss this gathering of the whole of the world, and that the principle of the supreme interest of the minors has been introduced into transbertical politics, and a treaty has been possible about the proposition described by Podemos. In the beginning, between the three parties the Tinisha spoke of. I hope that, in the end, the Jestric Party at least accepts a few points, but at first the whole deal is clear that it does not agree in the whole agreement. Little to add to what Mrs Guanche said. I believe that he has made a comprehensive presentation on the content of the initiative and the purpose of the initiative with regard to incorporating the principle of the child's interest in all public administration policies and actions, in line with Ararteko's recommendations. In this sense, we must quote the 2017 Ararteko Report on Children and Adolescents, a report, like all those made by Ararteko, comprehensive. And I believe that we have also had the opportunity to analyse it in depth by all the groups represented in this House and, no doubt, to take initiatives like this, which are interesting, important initiatives in the face, as has also been said here, to promote the well-being of children and adolescents and also to safeguard their interests, to listen to them and, above all, to take into account that we are also faced with a particularly vulnerable group. The Save the Children report, presented in 2017, has also been highlighted here, the data it collects in relation to child poverty. And reality leads us to conclude that it is necessary to strengthen all measures related to childhood and adolescence for special protection of minors. When we say that it is a particularly vulnerable group, we also talk about specific situations, specific problems that require a concrete approach, such as autism situations, mental disorders, situations of eating disorders, disorders of the care deficit, the situation of violence and situations of abuse experienced by minors. And I believe that here too we must highlight the steps taken also in the light of the changes that have taken place in state legislation, but also introduce a vision and also take into account the impact that domestic violence has on children. In this regard, we, in introducing our amendment to this initiative, did consider it important to make a special reference to children and the environments in which violence occurs in which there are minors. And in that sense, I must thank the groups with which I have signed this compromise amendment, Mrs Kortajarena and Mrs Guanche, for being sensitive to this issue. Little more to add. Apart from the references to which we have referred in various speeches so far, the Ararteko report, the Save the Children report..., I would also like to say that there is a commitment, and we know that the commitment to the draft laws of this Government is somewhat in doubt in the light of recent events, but we do hope that it will meet the legislative timetable. And that there is also a commitment from this Government to the modification of the Act 3/2005 on the care and protection of children and adolescents. And that all these issues, which are somehow progress that we are adopting and reaching agreements with specific initiatives, can also be incorporated into the amendment of this Act. As I say, let us hope that this time – and if we do not pull out of the ears of the government, and we will be there to make it clear in its case – it will not be so, its breaches, and that this bill will be referred to this House within the committed deadlines, which is the first quarter of 2019. We also hope that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the parties of the Government, as far as possible, will also be able to sign an agreement which we consider to be positive and good and which is a step forward. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u27	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, chief physician, good day. I think, like Mrs. Garrido, that Mrs. Guanche has very well explained to us the substance of the subject which we have brought to the discussion today, and also explained to us a very strict diagnosis about the subject, which we share, and that there must be no other turn in it. In any case, the discussion of today may be said to be one of those subjects which lead you to think that it is one of those subjects which offer the opportunity of a vast agreement. And above all, and I'd like to place the focus here, the Euskal treaty on the side of family and childhood, and in this very thing that's in force. For the treaty is very clear amongst its fundamental ends, which, on the one hand, requires the execution of the investment view of a childhood protected by the institutions of Europe, to enable them to distinguish the measures of the choice of children and teenagers for this purpose. And, on the other hand, the neglect of the differences between generation and generation, as much as possible, in order to prevent the families with children from being reduced to such a state of poverty. And further, amongst the Principles of this Covenant, to obtain these Ends, it is mentioned expressly, that the Children may be regarded as Subject. The same principles of the Convention of the United Nations concerning the rights of children in the orientation of this treaty are taken as the basis of words in the treaty, and the privilege of the interest of the child is established in them. That's in words. I think it's important to remember what this convention demands from those who agree with this convention. He asks them to secure the protection and vigilance necessary to the welfare of their infancy, considering the rights and duties of their fathers. It allows them to use all the resources they have available to develop the economic, social and cultural rights of children in order to develop them all. He asks them to guarantee survival and development or help their parents to have a proper growth and life-level for childhood. The implementation of the Convention, as expressly stated in the Basque Pact for Families and Children, necessarily implies making children entitled to rights and non-indirect beneficiaries of benefits granted to families, in which minors appear as family burdens. I think this is a very interesting idea, and I think we ought to be very present in our discussions for the next month, and Mrs. Guanche herself has mentioned a few. A person who is an expert and who has investigated these issues in the best interests of the child, who is Jorge Cardona, who is a professor of international law, said that this is a very interesting view because the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is of 89, which is also nothing new, represents the consecration of a paradigm shift on the consideration of children for the law. It is a paradigm shift in every rule, minors cease to be considered an object of protection, and this is very important, to become a subject of rights that must be empowered in them. The Convention does not proclaim new rights for boys and girls, and I believe that this is an element to be noted. The Convention considers that minors have the same rights as other persons, but the interesting thing about what this Convention proposes is that it is focused on the obligations that those who adhere to it have to ensure that those rights, which are not different from others, but which are those, can be exercised by girls and boys and are also respected by those who adhere to that covenant. It is very interesting, for this just one, that the establishment of the Conventation, because it is not in this, nor in this, nor in this, nor in this stop of general ideas, but in the case of them, to establish the guarantees of the performance of what we say. That's where the Convention says that we're probably too accustomed to sign all those conventions which in general take a lot of good intentions, and to mark principles and rules that are never followed, isn't it? And here, what is done in this Convention, is a step further, and it is said that it is not sufficient to accept it, but that those who make it a guarantee of doing it and respect it must also be established by those who do it. In addition, he said that in order to achieve that goal, that children and adolescents should be regarded as the object of law, that achievement should be seen as the central axis of that paradigm shift posed by the Convention, and that it should include two principles, which are also rights, which this Cardona considers revolutionary. I do not know if they are revolutionary, so many years later, the best interests of the child and the principle that imposes the obligation to listen to children in all decisions affecting them. Moreover, it is expressly stated that the two principles, which are understood as rights, must be read together. That is what the Convention, which is set out as a reference in our family pact, says. With this, in principle, I believe it is very clear that everyone should already be articulating the forms, establishing the ways of establishing those commitments and guarantees set out in the Convention, which must be assumed by all people, all states, all countries that adhere to the Convention. That's the reality we have. In theory, then, it is quite clear that there must be an agreement in this sense, because if we all admit that the way here is marked, that is the effort to do it. It is just as often happens, as we often do, that there is a difference in what is said of the word, in what passes in reality, and in this case the difference is very great. And not only because we say that the Arlias mentioned also that, by saying to the government a general recommendation which she had already made to do in the 2015, it was necessary that this principle should be grafted in all its policies, and not only in a literary form, but that it was necessary to include it in all its politics. And it's well known that most of the last few years with the profession there's been different tensions between this and the Artacles, because they didn't follow that recommendation, and that's where you could see how very different views were. On the one hand, it was the business of the profession to apply this crime to the anvil of childhood, and on the other the Arlias insisted that, according to the regulation, it was necessary to apply it to all the anbitos. And therefore it seems to me that this decision we made today, or the agreement which we made between us all, is a pleasant part. It may be true that in a discussion which we had before the monographic, he told us that a new era was opened or closed by the hand of this pact, and that we opened another road. And I think, honestly, this initiative is giving us a chance. It seems like a choice to end those points, or the different views that have been there, to make sure that the focus is too clear to establish and establish those guarantees that are to be established. And if we all assume this view with one mouth and from very different perspectives, I believe it will be very positive, because after all the decisions which we receive every day from the organizations, from administratives, and from widely different anbitos, have an extraordinary influence on the data given by the last report of the Arrants, they have an extraordinary influence on the lives of children, in the lives of their dwellings, on the income of the Houses, on the rents of money.... All these have a direct influence on the future and present life of these children. So all this working that can be done from that point of view is very positive. We share the proposition from whence it came, that is to say, to be able to overcome this sectorial view, that this is a matter which ought to be taken from the government, and thus we shall protect it to-day. And we also share what Mrs Garrido planned to do with violence. But we shall have this matter very present, also, in the discussion of the revenues of the revenue. Among these fat complaints the income of the rent of exchange is still one of these fundamental or central elements, and many of these complaints have been more than 200 years old. So I think we're talking about something very present. And on top of it, I applaud the arrangement of this day, and thank you for your intentions and intentions, and I think it's the same step that takes to place the lives of people in the middle of politics, and this tension that solves them...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u28	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u29	... that he will have a very positive influence over many and many men's lives, not only in those who are young, not only in the life of children, but in the life of those who are responsible or guardians or parents. So we make a good deal and we're happy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u31	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to deal here with the non-legislative proposal on the incorporation of the principle of the best interests of the child into all social policies and actions in the public administration. But since the introduction of this non-law proposal in July 2017 it has been a long time – almost a year – and since then much progress has also been made in this area. Over this period of time, during this period of time, the Basque Strategy for the Investment of Families and Children has been approved, in which people related to the administration, the entities of the third sector and experts from the academic world have also participated. The second step was the adoption, taking into account this basic document of the Basque Pact for the Support of Families and Children, signed in January this year by Eudel, outlaws and the Basque Government, and which was also the result of broad consensus and participation. We have also recently discussed a monograph on the family, on 21 March 2018, where numerous resolutions have been adopted that will have to be taken into account, together with the basic document of the Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children, in the forthcoming adoption of the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, which will include, which must include concrete measures and which my parliamentary group attaches particular importance to, including the need for its approval within the government agreement signed with the Basque Nationalist Party at the beginning of the legislature. That is why, in our amendment to the whole, when we tabled the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party in September last year, we referred to the need to include in the Basque investment strategy these criteria, this basic consideration of boys and girls as subjects of rights, on the basis of what is proclaimed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the United Nations, and to consider within it investment in children as a social investment and a cross-cutting tool. We accepted that in our amendment as a whole, but, of course, this amendment has already been implemented, because the Basque Investment Strategy for Families and Children, as I said earlier, has been adopted in the meantime. I believe that all the parliamentary groups in this House agree that public policies must intervene in order to reverse the upward trend in child poverty that has occurred in recent years as a result of the severe crisis, and that measures should be taken to promote precisely that well-being of children and adolescents. The studies carried out show the greater economic difficulties of families with children, which have led to the growth of child poverty, as well as the growing difficulties, as we also saw and discussed within the family monograph, to break the intergenerational transmission of these inequalities. This also calls into question the principle of equal opportunities. And we are also talking, and today it has again been shown by different speakers in this plenary, which also affects in an unequal way single-parent families and those made up of foreigners. It is also a commitment made and reflected in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, already ratified by Spain in 1990, and in the Resolution of the European Parliament of 8 July 92, which mark these fundamental principles which must govern all institutional actions. Moreover, this principle of the protection of the best interests is reflected in the Organic Law of 15 January 96 on the Legal Protection of Minors and in the Law of 18 February 2005 on the Care and Protection of the Family, Children and Adolescents of our Autonomous Community. There is therefore a legal obligation to do so. This cross-cutting is also referred to in the Basque Strategy for the Investment of Families and Children itself, and I hope that it will be included, of course, in the Fourth Family Support Plan, which is about to be approved. And within it reference was made to this cross-cutting and even to the need not only to include it in this Plan of Support for Families and Children, but also to the need arising from this cross-cutting to include it in many more strategic plans. What we are doing today is to capture that political commitment in the compromise amendment that the groups, the proposing group, the Elkarrekin Podemos group, the EH Bildu group and the People's Party have signed today. We are going to ask for the vote on points, because, of course, as I am pointing out, we agree, as could not be less, on what mark point one and point three. Point one, because it is the one that refers to this transversality to which I have referred throughout my presentation and which, of course, all the political groups in this House share. As we also share in paragraph 3, we were going to vote in favour of incorporating the principle and measures into the draft law on sexist violence, so that it applies both when it is exercised towards children and adolescents, and when male-based violence is exercised by couples or adult ex-partners towards adult women and their children under age. We have not reached an agreement, because only point two separated us, that is, which department has to carry out these cross-cutting policies. The compromise amendment refers to the Department of Governance and Self-Government and we believe that, although it is a cross-cutting policy, not all cross-cutting policies, which are many, not only the one we are dealing with today, are many, they have to be carried by the Department of Governance and Self-Government. That is also the coordination between the various departments and the inclusion, as I have said, of these cross-cutting policies in all strategic plans that are necessary and that regulate cross-cutting issues. That is why we have not signed that compromise amendment, but, as I have indicated, as we agree with the need for transversality that reflects point one of the compromise amendment and in including it in the draft law on sexist violence that sets out point three, we will vote, my parliamentary group will vote in favour of points one and three and we will abstain in point two, simply because we do not agree with the department that is included that has to do so. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u33	Chief of Parliament, ladies of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. The principles which correct the strategy of our group in families and childhood are the Conventions of the children of the United Nations, and the supreme interest of the minor is established as the fundamental guide of public policy, and it is confirmed by them as a citizen of the whole right. It concludes responsibility and challenge at the same time. How to give a first-rate attention to childhood by producing its useful environments to its proper development, by securing its protection, and by default the investment to be made in childhood. Thus I begin with several disputes concerning childhood and family, and wish to begin my intervention to-day, in confirmation of the principles which we defend in this subject. And today we've been working on the march as well. In September last year, when we made corrections to the role registered by the Podemos together, we mentioned two points. One, we were asking Renunt to be the first principle in the family and childhood strategy, and to consider the child as a fundamental criterion for subject, based on the proclamation in the Word of the Union of the Children of the United Nations. And we also asked him to invest in childhood as a social investment and an indirect instrument to improve the welfare of the whole community. Fortunately, we may say that these petitions have been fulfilled today to protect the supreme interest of the child, which will be determined in the Family treaty. That's what you're talking about, that's what you've been doing for months. Also, I do not forget that we agreed on the monographic solution of the families on this subject in March. This Monographic, where again, as the first sign of duty, I mentioned the supreme interest of the subject of rights, and of the minor age of children, in the Word of the Rights of the Child, in the Word of the United Nations. And I suppose I said of the young man, too: "Niños y niñas subjecto de derecho, e interes superior del menor, decerdo a los establecido en la Convención sobre los Derchos del Niño." In my humble opinion, we have either laid solid foundations or laid them down, and now it is time for us to go on, and chiefly in the business of each other. It is true, therefore, that we took the matter with regard to the matter of EH, and that together we had the first point of agreement between the two groups of Podemos, when you said: "Smendiendo la implantacion secential contraria a la Convención del niño y recomendiones del Arti." We did not think it right, nor just, nor with reality, nor the best way to make a deal, although we are conscious of it, and let it be plain that our challenge is determined by our conduct, and how we form our services, our politics, to this lawful command. And that's what we're gonna be excited about. Later on, you agreed with the Popular Party, and this new agreement took away the part mentioned beforehand, which opened a road for our agreement. And though you had won the vote, we wanted to make our contribution by three or four points that we thought would improve the text. The first thing in these points was to remove the mention made to the Department of Governance, as we understood that this process should be led from the area that is currently leading this issue, what doubt is there, from a point of view and a form of action, no doubt cross-cutting. Secondly, we changed the period from six months to one year, because it seemed to us more reasonable for practical purposes, in relation to the actions to be taken. Thirdly, we maintained the so-called 2018-2020 incorporation plan, following the guidelines of the Ararteko, but eliminating the reference to doing so in collaboration with the Ararteko, since we did not see the Ararteko in executive positions, especially when, after all, he has to evaluate and judge the government's action, also in this matter. To put it more colloquially, we did not see Ararteko as a judge and part of this issue. And fourthly, in the second point, we proposed prioritizing the principle and measures in this regard in the draft law on sexist violence, rather than incorporating the principle and measures as set out in its text, for two reasons. One, we were already talking at the first point about incorporating this principle into all public policies. There is no doubt that they should also be incorporated into a bill. And two, it is that from a legal point of view, in accordance with article 11.2 of the Organic Law 1/1996 of 15 January on the Legal Protection of Minors, and in the wording given to it by Law 26/2015 of 28 July on the Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents, will be guiding principles of public action in relation to minors, supremacy and the best interests of the minor. Therefore, in implementation of the previous forecast, all public administrations must incorporate the above-mentioned principle in the design, development and planning of public policies, as well as the development of their actions and implementation of policies relevant to their area of competence. With what we understood, and it goes without saying, that the principle would be incorporated into the draft law on sexist violence mentioned and, for that very reason and on the basis of that "children as subjects of rights and the best interests of the child", in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child of which I spoke in the part of my intervention in Basque, as the first axis of work in the public action to be carried out, it seemed more appropriate to establish it as a priority, and hence the proposal of the verb prioritising We could have gone into other aspects, such as the preparation of impact reports on children and adolescents and on children and adolescents. families in regulatory projects, or the development of special training and information campaigns in relation to children's rights, or encouraging the creation of mechanisms for child participation, understanding that the implementation of the principle of the best interests of the child and the implementation of the measures to be taken in this regard affect more areas than that of male violence. But seeing that the agreement was closed, we thought it appropriate to improve it for the purposes of its practical application in what was already agreed and, on the basis of the nuances I have already mentioned to you and with an absolute desire to agree, with absolute desire to agree with the hand of that new time that Mrs Kortajarena said I mentioned several debates ago. I'm very happy with the deal, Mrs. Guanche, take it with a sense of humor, huh? But sometimes, if there's will to agree, until the last hour is good to reach it. I am grateful for your willingness, and I would ask, as Mrs Sánchez mentioned, for the opportunity to vote for points on the agreement reached by the three groups of Elkarrekin Podemos, Euskal Herria Bildu and the People's Party. We would vote yes to the first and third points of your compromise and abstain on the second. Precisely because we share the need for cross-cutting, we do not share the commitment to be made by the Department of Governance. Because, following the same reasoning, there would have to be so many policies in the Department of Governance that they need to be cross-cutting. Furthermore, I am pleased with the agreement we have reached and will continue to speak because, as I believe we said in the monographic debate, we still need to clarify some concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing on the answers, together, Miss Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u35	Thank you, ma'am. The truth is, I wasn't planning on going out and replicating, but I'm not going to resist saying a few things. The first is that I thank again the will and the disposition, I thank again that we have reached this agreement, because I firmly believe that this is a step forward and I am going to stick with that, I do not want to go into discussion and of course we are going to allow the point vote, as it cannot be otherwise. But I do think some things need to be nuanced. The first is that in the monograph we took a step forward, of course. Today we are giving another one that is substantially greater and that has to do with compliance with a regulation that since 1990 would have to be in compliance and is not in compliance. The second is to explain why, because I seem to have a personal need for Mr Erkoreka to take care of this, but it is not a question of me wanting to commit myself, it is an issue that emanates directly from the Ararteko recommendation and has to do directly with not considering the best interests of children and adolescents as a sectoral policy, because sectorally it is considered, sectorally it is implemented and therefore things are left on the way. If this principle were truly transversal, I have told you before in private, Mr Urrutia, and today I repeat it for the whole of this House to hear, if this principle were transversal, you would not have forgotten to incorporate it, for example, into the proposal for a law on income security. If this principle were transversal, and you also take it with humor and affection, childhood and immigrant adolescence would have no different life routes in the various outlaws, the Income Guarantee Income would not be suspended by applying the law, as Mrs. Artolazabal told us, to a woman with four children, three of them with recognized disabilities. Security policies would have specific data on violence against girls and boys. Transport policies would allow girls and boys to travel safely. Social services policies would allow girls and boys to have their own voice. Finance policies would also take into account minors. Citizen participation policies would not completely obviate girls and boys as subjects of political participation. Health policies would not consider girls and boys as their mother's or parent's appendix. If we look in detail, I am sure that I would think of so many more things, but as I want to end with affection and goodwill, I am left with the fact that we have reached a good agreement and that this agreement has been reached by taking a substantially greater and better step than we have taken in the full family monograph. The delay in the time between the presentation of this initiative and the debate has to do with respect for the agreements that could be reached in this monographic plenary. I would like once again to thank Mrs Garrido and Mrs Kortajarena for coming to this compromise and for the will, of course, of the parties supporting the Government, Mr Urrutia, Mrs Sánchez, for voting for positive points for the two who are going to vote, and for abstaining from the two who are going to abstain. Let us hope and be vigilant that this will not remain a mere declaration of intent, but that it will be applied, of course, in all policies and depending on the Department of Governance. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u37	Yes, I'm very brief, thank you, Madame of Parliament, and my fellow-at-laws. I'd rather get out of here where I'm shivering and then I don't know what to say, do I? Nik was humorous and kariño guztiz, the iruditzen bath looked at him in the gauza of batzua matiza ere jarri behar zaiela. Batetik, Sánchez andreak esaten that, since the implementation of the pact and the strategy that is to come, much progress has been made in this area. I believe that that is still to be seen and we will be able to see it, moreover, when you actually bring that plan to which you referred, and we will be able to see it because we are putting forward a cross-cutting vision that overcomes this sectorality, which has so far had this vision, we will be able to see it in the discussions that we have on the table in the coming months. And we will see if this incorporation in a transversal way that referred to the best interests of the child together with that of being heard and heard, is truly incorporated into all the policies and decisions that have to do with all those elements that Mrs Guanche has quoted very well, but which have to do with very big things of the day and have to do with much smaller things but which also have to do with the day-to-day lives of boys and girls. And I will cite an example that is being given, for example, these days in Donostia. After a participatory process, the decision is made to put a playground in a square, the neighbors complain and the neighbors complain because there is a lot of noise, and it is decided to remove that park. For that decision has an effect on the lives of those children living in that neighborhood and, of course, on their right to play and to be happy, which is brutal, and in that kind of decision, it is not yet present. It is not also present in other measures – don't make a weird face, Mrs Sánchez, that's right – in other measures, for example, such as those taken to reduce some aid to dependency, which then had to be corrected, for example, in Gipuzkoa, because they had a brutal effect on families with children with disabilities. With which we are talking about a very important issue, and that is why the agreement we adopt today is very important, very important. And here the distant gentleman told us that it did not seem to him that the amendment we had entered, which referred to the recommendation of the Arlias, did not appear to him to be a proposition that opened the way to the treaty, or gave occasion. I believe that there is, and the interrogator cannot be a judge and a part of it, I may agree with you in it, but I believe that the interrogator has placed arguments very well justified in his documentation and reports on the table. In fact, he explained the explanations, explained the cases, the file, the report of the year before, and the report of the previous year. This year's report is particularly related to the question of the highest interest, children, and teenages interest, and I believe that it must at least be confessed to him, and that our team, in this sense, has been reflecting on what has been observed, seems to us to be a highly qualified recommendation, and to be highly esteemed, and therefore we protect him from going beyond this sactorial point of view to other purposes. I was talking about prioritizing and not incorporating, I was referring to a regulation, I did not take note of that regulation and I was already referring to the fact that it was mandatory to apply it. The Ararteko report shows us that even if it is enforced, this Government does not apply the best interests of the child to the entire range of public policies. And therefore I think it positive that we hold a new era, and that in that new age, from the line which the Convention says, we ought to establish guarantees, which supposes the procedures to be put into motion, which supposes men to give to those who do this right in this subject, and to those who decide it, to give a formation, to explain this right, and then to have this in all our regulations, and in all our other contrivances, the prospect of being really present in the transversal formation. And in this sense it seems to me that it is a very positive advance given to me today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u39	Yeah, from the seat. I have indicated in my speech that it is precisely time, it has been almost a year since this non-legislative proposal was launched and presented and, logically, in this period of time it has given time for the Basque Strategy to be approved fortunately for the Investment in the Family and Children, the Pact has been adopted, we are awaiting the coming of this Fourth Plan for Families and Children, to which we all attach extreme importance, because it has it. But that strategy also reflected that need for transversality, because it is the norm itself and, moreover, of its own conviction, because we believe that this has to be done in order to protect the rights of boys and girls. That is what I have pointed out in my speech. And of course, as I said, we agreed on that cross-cutting and we agreed that it should be included in that draft law on sexist violence which is to come in all matters relating to this matter. We just did not agree to change the governance thing, because we consider that there are many subjects that are transversal and not that all these subjects have to change to be taken from Governance. So coordination between other departments is very important, the inclusion and implementation of coordinated policies is also very important, and that is why we felt that we did not agree on point 2 and that is why we asked for the point vote, which we appreciate has been accepted, because it obviously allows us, as we agree with point 1 and 3, to vote in favour of them, and we are not going to vote in favour of point 2 simply for what we have indicated, for the department's sake, because in the rest of the philosophy I believe that we are all groups in this House, we have expressed it in our speeches, completely in agreement. And on the part of my group, of course, we attach great importance to this whole issue and try to take it into account in all the policies and agreements that we carry out. As we have also taken into account in the proposed Income Guarantee Income Act, it is important to try to avoid the inequalities that families have with older children, with complements so that they can benefit in this regard. I believe that we do take into account the fact that things have changed from that bill, which we will obviously have to discuss and start its process at this time. That still has its way. I would like to thank you for being able to vote on points, because we all agree on the substance. It only separates one department from another. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u40	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Far away, Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u41	Yes, with your permission, Madam. I'll do it from the spot. Look, Mrs. Guanche, I didn't feel like going out, and I haven't gone out, but, well, I'm going to make some shade. He said that Madame Kortaja's wife ought to borrow some things. I agree. And I'm not going to go deeper about this mess today, and I'm staying with an idea, and perhaps at the beginning of the new era we're not going to think we're going to agree, but in this new time we've been able to do what we weren't capable of in the old age I knew, and that's when we come to the agreement and I'll stay with it. Just a little bit. The problem was not to follow the recommendations of the intermediary and the interrogator. We think they're very interesting too. The problem was to let him know, in a way, that this pact of the children was broken, because he thought it was a matter of sectorial treatment. We, as I have said in my intervention, are conscious that we must advance, that we must adapt our services and our politics, we are conscious of it. But we think that doesn't mean the Governor Department should carry the matter. And the last thing you've said about the verb 'pririzar', Madame Kortja's, look at the point in which the will lies, we'll end by voting for the text that doesn't appear as 'pririzar'. That's what I'm trying to tell you. It was our intention to add and contribute for the reasons I've just mentioned. They were legal reasons, and it was only in the bargain that we preferred not to make any war. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Like I said, the vote will be scored. So since the discussion has ended, we will vote first, first, the third point, with Podemos, EHG, and the middle-line corrections signed by the Basque populars. Yeah? One and three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u43	So the first and the third points have been unanimously accepted. Now we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u44	So the second point has also been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Grow up the proposition as the parliamentary band made, concerning the strengthening of the inspection of Job. Discipline and final resolution. Turns over the proposed team, Mrs. Ottagon, representing the EH Collect team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u45	Hi, thank you. Good afternoon. In the past few months we have been able to follow several of the most interesting occurrences of the La Lan and Justice Committee, in order to give an account of the prevention that appeals to several unions and corporations at their time, to the extent of industry and industry, and to make proposals about the view they take. Several opinions and proposals have been extended to us, and we have clearly been informed that the measures which have hitherto been taken have been insufficient with the intention of descent. We can clearly see that one of the most important factors behind the labor suits is a preparation. We have no doubt of that. We don't say this by ourselves, as is known. In these remarks, most of the agents expressed it, and many of us here agree with this assertion. In the 28th of April, the institutional representation made by this parliamentary inspectorship to the International Day of Work Security and Health. In it, too, it was thought that the preventive must be considered a factor that increases the frequency of accidents. The physical and personal means of fighting against the President of Osalan and Work are to be assured that the proper conditions of work must also be confirmed in this institutional expression. I am speaking of a reality which we all accept, and we are all conscious that until this reality is not changed, it will be very difficult for us to conclude with this evil which we are suffering from. It is, therefore, indispensable that we take real measures to end the prevaricate. And these measurements must come from the promise of changes in the framework of the work-related conditions, if it really wants to upset the situation. But, after having put an emphasis on this necessity, to prevent the Prefect, there is another measure to be taken with this: To strengthen the inspection of work. This is a request that has been repeated repeatedly in the given occurrences. Many of the agents, if I am not mistaken, except the representatives of Confebask, agreed that when the rest of them were observed to be obliged to strengthen the inspection of the work. And he answers to this, this other proposal, as we presented it. In this other law there were principally two ends which we marked. One day, to ask you to strengthen Work Security and Medical Vision, and to demand the state the full right of security and health. We're happy about this middle term we've made, especially because we think we've achieved these two goals. Let him strengthen the security of work and health inspection when he asks for it, two points were deemed indispensable. On the one hand, to increase the number of inspectors employed in the Prevention of the charges of labour, by filling up all the offices of inspectors which are transferred with all possible privilege, and creating new squares which were necessary after. One of the scenes I have mentioned, ELA said, that in regard to the inspection of La La Labla, there must be more inspectors in the Basque Autonomia Erdi, and the average number of Europe, that is, a inspector for a staff staff of $78300. So, in our Autonomy Ere, 122 inspectors were transferred. We are far from the reality of the average in Europe. If I am not mistaken, 38 inspectors are inspectors who are transferred to Esquila Autonomia Errigora, and who are subjects of 27 other States, but treat here, if I am not mistaken. So from this reality we are far from being these 122 inspectors. It is true, and it must be admitted, and I think that it has been received in this middle course, the number of inspectors for the past few years, that the Departition has gone off in the field of inspection. That's the way it is and that's the way. But they are more necessary, if we will do their work well, and their labour, if we will increase the labour of these visions. We all know that files are piled up, that they have difficulty in working with proper propriety, that they do not reach all cases in time, because they are not enough. Because they don't do their job well, and I don't doubt their will at all. It is certain that there are few, and unfortunately there are too many accidents, and that there are too many cases to be examined. So there's something about how to improve and how to strengthen it, isn't there? Getting more intermediate. To strengthen the security of work and health inspection, another point is that of the visual figure of the inspectors, isn't it? We received it in another proposal of our own law, which has no right to regulate the security and health of our fellow-citizens, and to regulate the State's demand for the prevention of dangers, to regulate the regulations of the Vidition, essential. With these technicians they are, so they can form a Lablager. And it is true, and has been better received by the medium, that this figure of the Visor Visions is already regulated, and that in this medium we have been asked to strengthen ourselves by those forms, which have just been regulated by it, is not it? It must be said that the State has admitted three inspectors, and that it is possible, according to what we have learned, that yesterday, when I was speaking with Gloria, the State, seems to have accepted three inspectors to be allowed to our EGHERIER, and that it may be possible that before the end of the year or year these visual figures can be built up in our inspections. If it is so, and so it is, it would be enough to rejoice. But we still say it, and so we demand, in this other, and in this medium which we have obtained, that these subjugate figures must be augmented. That's for the first point. And as for the second point, what we were saying here was that the Euscal Autonomy of the Estrominary Estromy had been transferred to the public function of inspection in Work and Social Security, partly by the Decree of June 2411, but not as a whole. And what we wanted with this fundamental law was to require full jurisdiction in the security and health of the work, and to be able to regulate and govern from it in an integrated manner. It is also essential for us to have the full right to carry on political, integrated, and consistent policies in this area. At this point it cost us a little, because we have different views, but it is true that at last we have reached a middle-way, and we ask the Spanish Government to order that the Parliament should receive the entire inspection of the economic administration of Social Security in this way. The text I'd like... That's true, but it's true that in order to get to a middle path we always have to leave something hidden in the closet, isn't it? It is true that there is also another law which was admitted on the 12th of April to be admitted in this year of law, and in this other proposition, which was allowed to fill the state of Guernica, and transfer un transferred hands to the institutions of Euscalia, and to give the Government six months' time to set forth a work-place and a plan for the execution of it. I think, therefore, that this exigency of all power is sufficiently satisfied with it. And we have added two more points to this middle-class proposition, which we originally presented, and which the Podemos proposed in some measure. He didn't get it all here either. We didn't have any trouble getting it as he introduced them. But, as has been said before, to get to the agreement of a medium, we must all leave something. And I'd like to point out that I'm quite satisfied with what's finally been picked up. We are therefore very glad with this medium which we have attained, because we understand that at the beginning it fills at least a great deal what we have set before us. And above all, because it means that we all find it necessary that this matter should be serious, and that in this matter we should all endeavour to advance with one another. It is true, as I have said, that on certain points we read different readings about actual reality, especially how it works. We think it's true that there's a step forward, but there's a lot to improve. But it is true, and it must be confessed that what is done is well done, and that it is not evil. It's true that he stays short, but we can make a pretty positive reading on what's done. And what we have not in any other point will never arrive at consent in all this affair between the state and our jurisdiction. In this area of ours, even in the security and health of our work, our Autonomical jurisdiction is remarkable. It is very remarkable that we cannot regulate all the policies we would like from here. And it's a simple example, published yesterday with Gloria, which seems to be asking for six watchmakers, and that the state admitted only three of them. Well, here's the border. But it's just what I'd like to thank Mrs. Sánchez most of all. I've talked to him a long time, and I've got to admit I've learned a lot about this. You can always learn in conversation, but this is where I've learned a lot about everything you're talking about. And thank you all for coming to this agreement and we'll have another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u46	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u47	Yes, Mrs Otamendi said, more or less, if I did not misunderstand her, at the beginning of her speech, that it is a question that we are all more or less clear about the problem we have about health and safety at work. And it is true, but I think that in part because, unfortunately, and I think you are going to share it with me, after listening to the representative of Confebask in the Commission to which you referred, because I am not so clear that we are all clear. But it is true that in this House, or at least what we have heard in the Commission, I believe that it is widely acknowledged, and today we will hear it, of course it is the position of my group, that we have a problem of safety and health at work in Euskadi, surely also in other territories, surely also in Europe. They do. But that we have a problem and a serious problem. And that has been seen in the different appearances we have had of the trade unions, of different social partners in the Commission, and also in what is deduced from the very words of the representative of Confebask when he was here. I believe that beyond the debate that originated in those appearances on the rerun, which is something we have already talked about, the rerun of accidents, whether the reason is the crisis or are others, what I think has become very clear in those appearances is that the problem we have of safety and health at work responds to two very clear elements. One is the precariousness that has been powerfully installed in our labour market, an issue on which we have also been discussing in different plenary sessions, with different initiatives. And a second, which I think would be a bit new today, which is very important, is the widespread breach of the obligations of our companies in the field of safety and health at work. This has been explained by various actors who have gone through the Commission, and this is why our group feels that it is interesting, important and timely that initiatives be put forward that go or seek to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, which is one of the main tools we have from the public administration, precisely to ensure that the obligations of companies in the field of safety and health at work are fulfilled, which, as I say today, in a general way, there is a fairly widespread non-compliance, or that is, of course, what follows from the different appearances that we have been able to hear from the Members of the Committee on Labour and Justice. Therefore, I believe that the debate, beyond the exact number of inspectors or subinspectors we need, I believe that the debate is general. Labour Inspectorate at the moment in Euskadi is far from being able to cover the problem it has to face, and that is what any trade unionist knows, I say trade unionist, because trade unionists usually continually file complaints with the Labour Inspectorate. An equal worker makes a complaint at a given time, equal to six or seven years later does not make a complaint. But trade unionists know very well, because they make continuous complaints, that Labour Inspectorate does not arrive, and it is not a question of lack of professionalism of labour inspectors, but it is a question of workload that they cannot assume, and anyone who sees the work desk of a labour inspector –Gloria sure knows this very well. Well– you will surely find a lot of files, a lot of sheets, a lot of folders. And that has an impact on the fact that the Labour Inspectorate is not at this time efficient, and this is not to criticize the work of the inspectors, but to criticize that at this time the tool it has to take care of does not even cover by far the problems it has to face. Therefore, we are in agreement with the initiative. We have made an amendment with some approaches which we believe affect the improvement of the Labour Inspectorate and which have been taken in a majority in the compromise that has been reached, which I will describe. The first element in which, as far as I have been able to see, we all agree. The material and human resources of the Labour Inspectorate must be increased. I believe that there has been a great deal of consensus here, and in this respect it was proposed by the different groups. A second element, which is to focus on the thorough control of what you often talk about, and which is true, that the unions tell us, which is prevention. In fact, we were talking about a thorough control of evaluation plans, which seems to us to be fundamental. One of the things we have also seen in the appearances is that evaluation plans in many companies are either not done, or not done properly, or not implemented, and therefore it seems to us that it is a good message that we tell the Government and the Labour Inspectorate that this must be a priority issue and that there must be thorough control of those evaluation plans that we will certainly discuss, but I maintain that there is no comprehensive control at this time. There is not, because, as I say, there are not enough tools, because Labour Inspection does not give enough, but it is not done. And then, the third element that we raised, was that it has to do with control in those companies that in one way or another work with or for the public administration. And why did we pose this? Because it seems to us serious that there is a widespread breach of obligations, which are also legal obligations in the field of health and safety at work in any company. We find it absolutely unacceptable that companies which in one way or another obtain their resources, their public benefits, can afford to fail to fulfil their obligations in one area. as delicate as safety and health at work. And we all know plenty of examples that this happens. And most of the examples we know, we know them when there has been an accident, when two subcontractors who worked for a company that did not know what works for the Administration have died and, therefore, it seems to us that we must have a special impact on this issue. The element that has gathered us from what we proposed is that which has to do with deterrent measures and sanctions. I don't know if because it's not shared or exactly why, because they tell us that this is already done, and it's true, of course it's done and Labour Inspectorate puts sanctions, logically. But we think that it is precisely this that needs to be dealt with, because precisely what we were able to hear from the employer's representative, we came to the conclusion that unfortunately, I hope not!, but unfortunately the deterrent measures and sanctions today have to be part of preventive policy. Because many and many entrepreneurs unfortunately only attend to preventive policy if they make an economic calculation that this will be able to cost them more. And we deduced it from the appearance of the representative of Confebask, a shameful speech in which I believe all the representatives of the different groups that we were in the House were ashamed of. And so it was also explained by the parliamentarians of all the groups, of course not just my group, because the representative of Confebask came to try to remove iron from the problem of safety and health at work, came to discuss the surveys and statistics, came to say more or less that it was an invention of the unions, when the surveys and official statistics are not made by the unions. They seem to us to be serious accusations, and he came to say that, in the end, what was being said about what is considered accidents or not accidents at work is ultimately who pays. And there he emphasized and, therefore, for us it is more indicative than for companies, unfortunately, the deterrent measures and the measures that have to do with sanctions... Today, from our point of view, they cannot be separated from what is prevention in the field of health and safety at work. Because of course my group, when it talks about sanctions and when it talks about dissuasive measures and dissuasive economic measures, is not talking only from a punishment point of view, but is talking from a preventive point of view. Companies apply prevention much more if they value that it will cost them more in economic terms. I wish they appreciated it in other terms too, but that is a reality that we believe today cannot be denied. We therefore agree with the compromise reached. Now, it seems to us that this transaction – I think this is important – obliges or is going to force or should force more financial resources to be devoted to the Department of Labour and Justice. We have said that too, and we said that when the Community's budgets were presented. It seems to us that this department is underfunded and, in addition, within the Department of Labour and Justice – we already know that we do not share that they have separated Employment and Labour and that work is mixed with Justice – within the department it seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u48	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u49	...that the Labour side also has a lack of significant resources. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, as the initiative points out and has been commented on here by the spokesman who has presented it, in recent months we have seen in committee numerous appearances about the occupational disaster, its possible causes and the measures that, if necessary, can be taken to limit it or to eliminate it. Moreover, not long ago, in November last year, we were also debating a motion by the EH Bildu group concerning this same matter. And as I said at that time and I think it's good to repeat it now, one of the keys to dealing with labour injury was given by the unions when they said what philosophy we have to deal with this issue and that it is not acceptable for a single work accident, the existence of a single work accident is not acceptable, and that it cannot be associated with work and work accident as something that is inevitable and that, in that sense, the public administrations must take the measures that are within their power to do so. There were numerous approaches, as has been said here, to the causes and the formulas for ending it. One of the causes, which we discussed also in November last year, is job insecurity. And then it was also addressed, it has been addressed by the various representatives who have appeared, but above all by the unions, the need to increase the personal and material means of the Labour Inspectorate. By virtue, as has also been said here, under a decree of the year 2011, there are a number of functions that are transferred to Euskadi and at this time, therefore, we have two different administrations in charge of the inspection in Euskadi. On the one hand, social security and the fight against the irregular economy fall within the competence of the central government, while the prevention of labour risks and labour relations and employment fall within the competence of the Basque Government. The two inspections work together in the Basque Country, the state and the autonomous, coordinate the planning of their actions, structuring them in four main areas: social security, irregular economy, occupational risk prevention, and labour relations and employment. Here, I, Mr Hernandez, believe that you are overly catastrophic when you come up to this rostrum, because it seems that nothing is being done, that more can be done, that it is necessary to put all the means at our disposal to do more, yes, but to give the feeling that so far nothing has been done and nothing is being done, I believe, and it does not conform to reality, nor is it fair to say so either. For example, according to data provided by the Government Delegation in 2017, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate detected and regularized 3,000 irregular jobs, 1,741 in Bizkaia, 815 in Gipuzkoa and 444 in Alava, and collected 30.4 million euros for Social Security, also for historical territories, almost 20 million in Bizkaia, 5.8 million in Alava and 4.6 million in Gipuzkoa, which is equivalent to the annual payment of 1,878 retirement pensions. As a result of these actions, the Labour Inspectorate imposed 2,017 sanctions amounting to almost €3 million and €4.1 million for social security fraud. As I said to you, is it important to strengthen the workforce and to strengthen the material means currently available to the Labour Inspectorate? Yes, but that you do things and that you are doing things is just to say that too. First, as we say and as the initiative itself said, and says the compromise amendment that has been reached, increase the number of inspectors and sub-inspectors, covering the places already created and, if deemed necessary, the creation of new places. We must point out that Law 23/2015, the Authorising Officer of the System of Labour Inspection and Social Security, creates a new scale of occupational safety and health with the body of labour subinspectors, as a demonstration of the priority that the Government of Spain also gives to the prevention of occupational risks, consolidating and strengthening the role of the Labour Inspectorate in this field, in order to continue to advance in the reduction of labour sickness and improvement in working conditions. The first promotion of occupational safety and health sub-inspectors, with 32 new sub-inspectors, was incorporated into the Labour Inspectorate on 3 May. With regard to the Labour Inspectorate, a change is also taking place at the national level in the regulation of regulations. By Royal Decree 192/2018 of 6 April 2018, the statutes of the State Labour and Social Security Inspectorate are approved, regulating the central structure, the peripheral structure, the governing and institutional participation bodies, and the property and contracting economic regime. But, as we say, it is important to point out – I said at the beginning – that as far as safety and health at work are concerned, the duties belong to the labour inspectors, who are dependent on our administration. It was therefore not appropriate what was set out in the initiative. original – and I was also talking to Mrs Sánchez – that we are calling for full competition in this area, because we already have it in that area. Different is the competence regarding whether or not to comply with the obligation to contribute to the social security system. In this respect, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court has stated that the sanctioning power and, therefore, also the role of inspector of offences relating to the social security system, or that it falls on instrumental data relating to the birth and maintenance of the obligation to contribute to the system, is reserved, as I say, according to the Constitutional Court, to the State. That is why we did not sign the compromise amendment, because we did not agree with that second point. He is the only one who will not vote in favour and we will all vote in favour. Because, as has been said here, with a large part of the content of the original initiative and of what has finally been achieved in the compromise amendment, this group agrees. Not only will an agreement be reached now. We have already spoken, we have already reached an agreement in November on the guarantee role that the Administration has to play in public works. In other words, the control of companies working for the public administration to monitor strict compliance with occupational health and safety legislation, taking into account in this respect the quality of compliance with occupational risk prevention and compliance with the regulations by contracted companies. To this end, it was pointed out – and it was pointed out in November and I would like to point out again here – that in June 2010 a protocol was signed between the Basque institutions for the follow-up of all public works in Euskadi. But, in any case, as there is always room for improvement, it is important to continue working, maintaining the measures, implementing them with new ones, so that in the public works the contracted companies strictly comply with the regulations and have assumed this culture of prevention, because we believe that the public institutions, in addition to monitoring compliance with the regulations, must also set an example and must be the first ones that force such compliance with the conditions of work and occupational safety. I believe that this is consistent with public administrations. We therefore agree with the third point and, as I said, we will vote in favour. Finally, there is a point for further thorough monitoring of risk assessments and preventive business planning. We agree, too. Mr Hernández, I think prevention is the best way to avoid accidents. Ensuring that such prevention is carried out is the best way to avoid such accidents at work. I pointed that out in November and I want to say again now, that the same sectors in which the claims occurred 10 years ago, more than a decade ago, are the same in which they occur now. Non-compliance with preventive legislation is reiterated. Therefore, we believe that such plans should be monitored, a series of timetables should be established for the implementation of those plans, because we believe that this is a fundamental measure, because there is an unspeakable fact, which is the repetition ad etherum in the prevention of occupational risks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u52	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u53	Yes, thank you, President. We have already discussed this matter in a side-by-side manner at the plenary session on 16 November 2017, with the consequent motion of interpellation where we can reach agreements on labour claims. For my group, the Basque Socialists, it seems to us essential that the monitoring of the Labour Inspectorate be carried out in order to ensure compliance with the rules in force. And the important work, which we often forget, of advising in the areas of work, occupational risk prevention, employment and social security, all this collective that manages to avoid many situations, but that cannot be quantified, because it has simply been managed in the end not to happen. For this reason, the Department of Labour and Justice is continuously working to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, providing it with greater human and material resources to carry out this work as effectively as possible. And it plans to continue to do so in the future. I have already pointed out in that intervention last November that it should be noted that the Labour Inspectorate during 2017 had increased its activities in control campaigns, part-time contracts and temporary contracts aimed at reducing the precariousness of work that can and has such an impact on labour sinestrality. And during 2018 it continues to do so. He indicated that at this time, at that time, the resources available to the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Government were 37 inspectors and the Deputy Director of the Inspection. There had been a reinforcement with 10 inspectors on the staff and then a post had been filled as a result of the OPE, which now has 38 inspectors on the staff in the three historical territories. And six new sub-inspectors of occupational health and safety had been requested. In this body of subinspectors, the entire territorial deployment is now taking place, because they are recently created, and in this request for the places that had been requested, they have only been approved by September, for the contest of September this year, initially three places and will come later, in other contests, the other three that remain outstanding. Because, of course, they still have few troops and they have to produce or carry out the deployment of this whole new body of occupational safety and health sub-inspectors throughout Spain. This body of occupational subinspectors of the occupational safety and health scale was established at the national level under Law 23 of 2015 and reinforces the actions that can be carried out and carried out within the scope of the Inspection in the field of occupational safety and health and that change the previous situation, because the former and the current subinspectors of employment and social security do not have competence to act in the field of occupational safety and health. This new body will strengthen in these matters everything that the Inspectorate, by the rest of the Labour and Social Security inspectors of the staff. We cannot forget, however, that we also have 26 non-transferred labour inspectors belonging to the General Administration of the State, because the social security transfer has not yet been carried out. We therefore have 38 transferred and 26 not transferred, with which 63 inspectors operate in our Autonomous Community, which maintain the unit of action, which we cannot forget. That is to say, regardless of who initiates the action, both the General Administration of State and within the Autonomous Community in its actions, they can carry out all the competences that are necessary in the four fundamental areas, both in employment, in employment and in social security, as well as in occupational health and safety. This enables everyone to act in terms of occupational safety and health, whether or not they are transferred. The strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate has therefore been carried out in recent years and will continue to work on it. Work has also been done in the area of lifelong learning, reaching agreement with the Labour Inspectorate training school at national level, so that the transferred inspectors can also participate in all training courses, whether in person or online. However, we cannot forget that important changes are going to take place at the national level, there has to be a change within the Controlling Law of the Labour Inspectorate, the Law 23/2015 of 21 July 2015, because within it is created the autonomous body of the Labour Inspectorate and that changes the situation that currently exists, which was a Directorate-General of the Labour Inspectorate. And that's going to force a posteriori It will have to wait, however, to have budgets so that it can begin to be carried out, because obviously it will have to enter for the budgets of 2019, because although the autonomous agency is created at national level, in the budgets of 2018, although not yet approved, it seems that this item is not involved, so it will still take time to start that change at national level. And there is also going to be a bouncing, a change in the law on violations and sanctions in the social order and in the regulation of the sanctioning procedure in order to adapt it to these modifications of Act No. 23/2015 and of the Act on Administrative Procedure of Law 39/2015. New legislation will therefore have to be drawn up and amendments, a revision in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and the agreements signed with the Autonomous Communities in which the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate has taken place will also have to be made to adapt it to this new autonomous body established at State level. And that is included in the 2018-2020 Strategic Plan that is recently approved in April 2018. We therefore believe that the compromise amendment that we have signed is good because it goes in this direction, will continue to strengthen and continue to work for the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, both in the area of labour inspectors and in the sub-inspectors of occupational safety and health, but also in continuing to work on transfers that have not yet been transferred or passed to the Basque Government, as is the area of the Economic System of Social Security. But not only do we ask for transfers, but in those transfers, what is being called for in this compromise amendment is that, together with those transfers, human resources should also be transferred to us, the number of inspectors also needed, and we can have all of them. I will explain more in the second round because it will not give me time to enter more, because I see the time, in more depth, a little why a number of issues have been brought in and others not. I think there are some that haven't gotten in because we thought they were being done. I will explain it further in my second speech. We have included those which we considered to be also most relevant, although action is also being taken in this regard, such as being guarantors, to continue to be guarantors in strict compliance with social security legislation by companies working in public administrations. And on the part of Elkarrekin Podemos we asked to put in place a point referring to continue working and carrying out actions in a comprehensive way in matters of risk assessments, because it was of particular importance, and we argued that if it were to put in or refer to these risk assessments, we also considered it important to link it to preventive planning, because with a risk assessment without a link to preventive planning, you get to do a study of where those risks are, but you're not setting them a timetable, you're not setting them a schedule...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u54	Finish up, Mrs. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u55	... that you have to demand and that you have to comply. We therefore ask that the reference to preventive planning also be included, if the risk assessment were included, because it seemed to us that way much more comprehensive. Because it is the study of risk plus the timetable of compliance requirement through such preventive planning of those risks. That's what's been done. I think it is also important, of course, that we continue to emphasize this issue. We therefore believe that this could be included in the compromise amendment. And well, then I'll go deeper into the second intervention because I'm running out of time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u56	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u57	Yes, ma'am, thank you, Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. I must say, for our party, that employment is a axis for the political activity of every government which we participate in. That's our commitment. To give priority to the nicest, economic, social natures, to create more jobs for the right end, and not only jobs, but even better employments. In fact, one of the posts of the employment quality is based on the administration of the work. The object of his task is to enable the proper application of his conditions of work. In this they act, that the functions of vision are well observed, and that the rules of the work are well observed, and that they are developed. This is a matter of great importance in the government agreement between the Jeltzian and the Social Party of Eukata. This agreement makes a clear confession to La Lan Vision, to guarantee its quality as a essential instrument, and to fulfil the law of work. And this, which I have just said, is reflected in the commitments made by the Basque Government in its programme of government for the current legislature, in particular within the axis "A solid growth and with more and better employment". A commitment to combat labour fraud and the Labour Inspectorate, fundamental elements to give real content to the commitment to more and better employment. To this end, a number of initiatives are envisaged, including the strengthening of inspection services, an issue which, as we see, clearly coincides with the objective of the non-legislative proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal is debating here today. All required resources must be placed to ensure the health and security of the work. That's important, and our team agrees. The goal is to get a safe and healthy place. And in order to make real progress in this regard, it is necessary to work in all areas and between all the parties involved – enterprises, trade unions, workers and workers – and also the participation of the Administration is necessary. And the Basque Government has been working on this issue for a long time with the aim of ensuring that the necessary levels of safety and health are given for what it uses the tools that are in its hand and thus achieve the objectives it has set in this area. The Government's commitment to the prevention of labour risks has always been evident. We haven't just started on this. Many of the plans have been conducted in the past few years to prevent the public charges. We've made a lot of running for this field. And we believe that this must be emphasized, because sometimes when we hear certain statements in this House, it gives the impression that nothing is being done and, of course, our group believes that this is not the case and, specifically on this issue, I am also pleased to have seen today how from other groups it is also recognised that there has been progress in this area, steps have been taken in the area of health and safety at work. Even so, it is true that reality cannot be obviated, a reality that shows that the regulations in the prevention of occupational risks are not being complied with as they should be and therefore there is still a way to go. We must continue to inciting and working from different areas such as promoting a true culture of prevention. And there's a lot of worrying and complications about this thing. Moreover, he is working to extend the prevention of his fellow-citizens, not only in the workshops, but also in the interests of the community, and for this purpose he must develop so many and so many undertakings. For the Government, of course, this is also a basic issue in the culture of prevention, the acquisition of security habits, that these security habits become internalized, because, of course, this is the way, it is one of the ways. There are also other areas from which the Government acts in its firm commitment to health and safety at work, and one of them and fundamental, is that of the Labour Inspectorate, eta halaxe dago Gobernu program jasota, they would be bean bezala. There is no doubt that the Labour Inspectorate plays a very important role in ensuring compliance with the labour law, in preventing unwanted situations and, where appropriate, in sanctioning violations of the rules. And this line, recognizing that improvements have been made, it is true that, as I said a moment ago, there is a way to go, there is a long way to go and, therefore, it seems to us that it is a very important step in this commitment to the prevention of occupational risks, precisely the strengthening of the staff of the Inspectorate, in this basic objective of monitoring compliance with legislation on occupational safety and health by all actors involved in the prevention of occupational risks. Hence the need for adequate and adequate means, effective structures for prevention, control and counselling, which effectively help to take the necessary steps to ensure the most efficient implementation of the Government's role as inspector, to take action to raise the level of protection of the health and safety of workers, to reduce occupational risks and to investigate possible accidents at work, among others. Yes, but above all, I would say, fundamentally so that the workers, all those who work in whatever field, are really guaranteed to do so with conditions that guarantee a safe and healthy working environment, without any doubt, and in this line the Government is in. Mrs Sánchez has already explained to us, Mrs Llanos has also explained to us, how the inspection system is organised, how it works, how it works under the premise of unity of action. Mrs Sánchez has also explained to us how she is currently involved at state level in a process of restructuring, of modifications, which will probably mean that adjustments have to be made. Mrs Sánchez has given us very concrete and effective details of people who cover this inspection service, so I am not going to repeat myself with this kind of information now, but I think it is important to reschedule the effort, in the reinforcement that is being done in the field of inspection. Although this is the case, we certainly believe that further progress needs to be made in the process of strengthening the Inspectorate and, in this regard, the amendment that we have made by most of the groups in the House is precisely in this direction, urging the Basque Government to continue to strengthen the Inspection of Safety and Health at Work, and also urging the central Government, the Spanish Government, to include in the transfer of the economic management of Social Security the whole of the Labour Inspectorate in order to complete what is already transferred in this area, in the interests of full and therefore more effective management of it. And it is also in line to go further, if it is possible, in compliance with the regulations on safety and health at work, a compromise amendment which, moreover, as the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Llanos, except in one of the points, will support us. I will end by thanking all the groups for the willingness they have had here to reach consensus on a text that has enabled us to reach this agreement, aimed at continuing with the reinforcement and impetus of the Labour Inspectorate from which it is developed, without doubt a work fundamental in the field of occupational safety and health. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u58	Thank you, Miss Otalora. It's the answer time. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u59	Thank you. It's just for two-pointizations. I think I've made it clear that when I said I'm not going to say here that the security and health of the work hasn't been advanced for years. It's done, that's clear. The measures are taken, and there is no less hope. But that is done, it must be confessed, but it is true, that we all acknowledge it, that the department itself acknowledges that it is not sufficient means to do so. And, as Mr. Hernández has well said, who is received in this agreement which we have come to-day, the increase of inspection must essentially affect the budgets of the work and the Justice Department. It is necessary that this department should be able to satisfy everything that is administered with the necessary resources. So all I'm hoping is that when we get an introduction to the budgets of the next year, we're really refractory to see that the means lead more than they are up to now. It'll never be enough, I know that too, but at least more than the ones who go on right now. Miss Llanos, it's true that the area of security and health is now altered. That's true. We have stated that you and I have been transferred by a decree, but other areas which influence this area are not transferred, such as active employment policies, who receive inspections of control and the chastiser power of the laws, or the management of the economic regime of social security. Therefore, we have not all our rights in this respect, either in a positive manner, or in an integral manner. And this is recorded in Guernica State. We ask for nothing not received in the law, only received in the law. to fill out what comes, to transfer all transfers to once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u60	Thank you, Madam Mount. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u61	I go out basically to deny my catastrophe. I do not know, in this case Mrs Llanos, the People's Party. I think anything you call catastrophic. Let's see. I have not said at any time, as you have said that I have said, that nothing has been done. I don't. I said nothing has been done, quite the contrary. What I have said and I also acknowledge is that today, with regard to this debate on the Labour Inspectorate, I have found a greater point of self-criticism on the part of the groups supporting the Government than in other debates we have had on the subject of precariousness. So what I have said fundamentally is that we have a serious problem of safety and health at work, that we have it, that there is it, that some deny it – fundamentally Confebask when he came to appear, because he denied it with his interventions – but that I have not heard any group deny it today, each with its expressions and nuances. And this seems good to me, because I think denying problems is bad. And to recognize the problems is not to make catastrophe, but to identify the problems to solve them. And for my group, of course, this is a delicate and particularly serious problem. A second question that we have come to say. This problem, which has a certain size that is caused by precarious employment – and this is the second one we have said – because it violates the legal regulations on safety and health at work in a more or less widespread and widespread way. It is a problem that the size we have of Labour Inspection in terms of means and resources at the moment is unable to address. That doesn't mean you don't do things, you don't do things. I'm not even here to say it's not done in the right direction. Today I have not even come to say this, if not to say that in the face of such a problem we have such a tool and, therefore, to us seems very well the initiative that is being negotiated today, because what comes to say is that we actually have that problem and that we have to have a Labour Inspectorate that can cover this problem. As for the questions that are introduced and not introduced, I regret that Gloria has not given her time to explain it in the first speech, because then I will not have a turn to express my opinion to her, but I believe that you are going to tell me, or in some way you have already pointed out, that what is not introduced from what we said is because it is already being done. Man, I think everything that has been introduced into the transaction you consider is already being done, in an insufficient way, and you have expressed it. Therefore, we do not see the reason why some of the elements that we proposed have been included, and another, which in particular is that it has to do with what is being said about sanctions, etc., has not been included. I do not know if there is a special fear of talking about sanctions, which I think we had to talk about naturally, because I think it is part of preventive policy also right now. Therefore, my group remains that the transaction is good and that the message that we have a problem of safety and health at work, caused by precariousness, and that in a more or less widespread way there is a breach of the regulations in terms of safety and health at work, this is an issue that we more or less recognize all the groups in this House. And this seems pretty important to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscalia Pionarian Group representative, Mrs Llanos, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u63	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat, simply to make two points. One, it is true that at the moment, I have said, there are two administrations and two inspections operating on different subjects and on different inspection camps. But they are, I have also said, coordinated and acting together. I would like to say that because there are two different inspections, there is no dysfunction when it comes to carrying out the inspection, as I say, each in the areas that fall within its competence. And, Mr Hernandez, just as the term catastrophe is overly drastic, but I must also say that I believe that you too are overly drastic when you say "there is a widespread failure on the part of companies to comply with occupational risk prevention regulations". I don't think there's a general breach. That there are non-compliances? What's so many? Of course. You said in the previous speech that the work that inspectors have to do far exceeds the capabilities of the current inspection. I believe, and I believe that we have all recognized this, that it is necessary to provide more personal and material means for inspection, but from there to give the image of an absolutely overflowing inspection, I believe, from my point of view, that it is excessively drastic. What can be improved? Of course. That there's a problem? Of course. But I have told you in my first speech also, because I believe that the philosophy with which we have to deal with this issue is with the philosophy that some union set up here and that I believe that it came out more in the previous debate that we had in November, with the existence of a single work accident, and I do not tell you anymore if that accident is fatal, it is enough, because for the family of that injured person, that injured person and if it is a deceased person, the family of that deceased person, of course, it does not matter whether there is one, that there is 100, yours is the one that matters and that is the one that we all have to do to avoid. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u65	Okay. Firstly, of course, as it could not be otherwise, and it has not given me time to do so in the first speech, it is thanks for the enormous effort we have made at this particular point in all the groups in this House. I think we have been talking long and hard until we have reached the agreement that we have signed, the compromise amendment that we signed today between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, the EH Bildu Group and Elkarrekin We can, because it is important, pick up very important issues to work on what we all agree is good, to continue strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. And in our presentations, I believe that we all agree that there has been significant progress, I believe that we have not denied that any of the groups involved have done so. What I cannot agree with is the manifestation that we have a serious problem. Man, problem, in that I agree with Mrs. Llanos, problem will always be. Non-compliances, you're 68 or you're 500, you'll never be able to avoid them. There's going to be a breach. But, of course, we are much better than in other times. I've been on inspections where we were two and three people for the whole province, where there are now 12 or 20 people. Obviously, we cannot be saying that we now have a serious problem, when we are now infinitely better at other stages where the numbers have been much lower. And we are talking that we now have 38 inspectors transferred to our Autonomous Community, which together with the non-transferred are operating 63 inspectors. It is that we have never in history had so many inspectors acting in our Autonomous Community Therefore, we cannot talk about having a serious safety and health problem in that sense now, because we are far better in numbers than we have been in other times. I agree that everyone else we have will always be better, the more we have, because more can be done. That's obvious. But the situation has nothing to do with the "I have been known to 30 years of history", with which they have lived at other times, is that there have never been so many people. That does not take away so that, of course, you have to keep working for more. I agree with that. And that's why I signed this compromise amendment, because everything we do... Efforts have been made, I explained in my speech, how the staffing has been increasing also during 2017, the incorporation of that position that remained vacant to further increase the staffing. The new body of occupational safety and health sub-inspectors has been called upon to be strengthened, to be more effective in continuing to fight for occupational risk prevention. And very briefly because, as Mr Hernández says, then he will not be able to reply, we said not to include any of the points raised in his amendment as a whole, as was the subject of economic fines. It is not that we are afraid of economic fines, quite the contrary, there are now many more inspectors, as I have said. With more inspectors, many more fines are imposed that take longer, because they are more effective in carrying out the sanctioning action. But it's just that they've been doing it and putting it back on it seemed to us to be repetitive. And I believe that nothing further from the reality that we are afraid of all economic fines. I have always defended, and I have said this here in this rostrum, that unfortunately for fear of the stick is when compliance by companies occurs. If you're not afraid that you'll be able to get that performance, that fine, or that sanctioning performance, on many occasions they wouldn't be carried out. And then meet the union recommendations, which were collected in some of these points. For it is usually done, always as soon as an action is taken, it is spoken with the representation of the workers, with the staff delegates, the company committee or the prevention delegates, with which, in that sense, it appeared or did not appear, nor did it seem to us to be of greater relevance. And what we did not agree is that any financial aid can be withdrawn in the face of any breach in the field of occupational safety and health, which was also reflected in one of those points, because already in the rules of recruitment and in the existing rules, in those companies which have incurred very serious breaches in the field of occupational safety and health, there is an impossibility of being able to contract with them at the level of the Administration with those companies. But to bring that to any kind of social security infringement that may have been committed, to leave companies that have been able to commit an infringement without any aid, because it does not seem to us to be in line or proportionate to what the rule is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u66	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u67	The rule already marks a number of impediments in certain serious cases and which, of course, the Administration has to comply with, but it did not seem to us that it was or should be extended to all kinds of non-compliances to lose all kinds of aid, of any kind, because there was no limitation in that regard. And well, as I said, the ones we've seen were...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u68	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u69	...relevant to take them into account and thank you for the agreement reached. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u70	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u71	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Me very briefly. I would tell Mrs Sánchez that I would give her my five minutes if she wanted to, because I will be brief in the speech. A couple of little things. Recognizing the problems is not catastrophic, of course not Mr Hernández, we agree. What happens is that sometimes the way in which your problems are explained or exposed can lead to this feeling of catastrophe. Just to point it out. It is true that today we have had some interventions, the truth that I believe to be positive, that we must put it in value. We are all very much in the process of really moving forward and trying to get all these services, such as the Inspection, to come forward, to try and get, well, to try to get the scope of disaster gradually to go down, because it is true that the fact that there is a work accident, only a work accident is a lot. It has been said here, it has been said today and it has been said I believe that on all occasions when we have had the opportunity to talk about this issue, it has also been said the same thing, it is a lot, it has always been recognized this way and we have recognized it by all groups, the reality is very hard in this respect and we must give it a voice. There we agree, I believe that we have never given rise to any doubt, our group has never given rise to any doubt, to the need to continue to guarantee and strengthen the field of health and safety at work, in order to ensure that all workers in their working environment have a safe and healthy environment. There is no doubt and I believe that in this, as I am saying, we are agreeing, we have agreed all the groups. Today's agreement is positive, and I am going to keep that part, I am going to keep the positive, that at the end of that, that we are able among all groups to reach consensus and agree on issues that contribute or contribute to the improvement of the situation, of the reality of all people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u72	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Now that the discussion is over, we vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u73	It would be the 1, the 3 and the 4 on one side and the 2... The 1, 3 and 4 in one group and the 2 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u74	No problem, right? The vote points. What we're gonna vote is one, three, and fourth point, EH Collect, together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Eunciators, the middle-point that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u75	So one was unanimously accepted, three and four points. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 64; the opponents are 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u76	So the second point has also been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning the establishment and establishment of a mobile application against the curse of violence in the shortness of time. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Ms. Arana, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u77	Good morning, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u78	The others were silent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u79	- Member of Parliament. On the International Day against LGBTIQphobia I do not want to start this point without first reminding all those lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual, intersexual people who still today and also here in Euskadi continue to suffer different types of social and institutional violence that limit their rights and freedom by the mere fact of being and loving. And also remember the need for all –society and institutions – to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u80	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u81	...work to advance towards a society free of violence for all people and we want it for all, for the people we were born in Euskadi and for the people who arrive in Euskadi. We do not want to fail to mention the victims of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity who are forced to flee their homes and countries and seek asylum and refuge in our territories. The defense of the human rights of lesbians, gays, transsexuals and bisexuals begins in our streets and connects us directly with the defense of these rights in any part of the world until we get them universal. For the diversity and the right to a life free of violence, for the tolerance and protection of human rights and for the memory of all those who preceded us in defending the rights of the LGBTIQ population. And now I'm getting into it. Firstly, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we want to highlight the efforts of all groups to reach this agreement. Once again we are bringing an initiative and we have reached an agreement to continue with a firm step in the prevention and eradication of sexist violence. An ambitious and very comprehensive agreement. We're very satisfied. Today we recover the necessary and urgent path to open our eyes to analyze and better understand the real dimension of the Machist violence and, in addition, the means to give ever faster answers will be strengthened. We are faced with a global problem that is also present in the Basque Country. The record of complaints here continues to grow. The number and severity of the episodes of the last month are alarming. This initiative brings measures for the short, medium and long term. Those that point in the short term to implementing a telematics system to reduce police response times, as well as training for the officers who are going to give that response. Information and awareness-raising campaigns are also proposed for all citizens. This initiative also includes measures for the medium and long term, such as: developing a diagnosis of all sexist violence and then a comprehensive strategy that brings together in a single road map all government policies in this area. In short, an ambitious initiative that captures the sensitivities and proposals of all groups. It is very important that we be able to make progress in agreements to deal with this serious human rights violation. And once again at the initiative of Elkarrekin We can come to an agreement to prevent and eradicate macho violence. Of course, we must continue to work and we will continue to do so, putting this issue at the heart of the agenda of this Parliament and of all the Basque institutions. It is clear that Basque society as a whole is increasingly concerned and engaged in denouncing and eradicating this systematic violation of women's rights. Citizenship, with the indispensable contributions of feminist theory and movements, has integrated the principle of equality of women and men among their desires to build a better, more just, democratic, egalitarian and solidarity society. And on that path we are understanding that violence against women is an obstacle to half of citizenship enjoying a just, democratic and peaceful coexistence. With fear one cannot; with the freedom of the movement cut off by that fear one cannot; with the freedom of being that one wants to be cut off one cannot. In short, with violence as an obstacle to access to our fundamental rights, women want to, but we cannot be full citizens. It is necessary to redouble efforts and resources to take more decisive steps towards real and effective equality, towards a Euskadi free of machist violence. We said it on June 10, 2017, we reiterated it in October, also in the budget appearances and today we insist again. Because in Elkarrekin we want equality between women and men and gender-based violence to be placed in its place of priority on the political agenda of the Basque Government and this Parliament. With the autopilot you can't, you have to broaden the look, have height of sight and give the answer that Basque women need and also demand. Law 1/2004 on Gender Violence was a milestone, yes, but it is time to go beyond the limits of that law. Violence against women is much more than the violence of couples and ex-partners, and in that regard we hope that the bill committed by this Government will be up to date. Until that bill arrives, we will continue to make proposals to bring institutions up to date. There are countless forms of macho violence. They must be named, they must be visible, they must be detected. We must know its true dimension to give real answers; otherwise we respond to the tip of the iceberg. We put on shrapnel, when what we really need is a heart surgery. Emakunde publishes annual reports, right, but they are much better for them to get closer to reality, since today they leave out a very important part of the Machist violence. And why do we think they're improveable? We explained it. They can be improved for two main reasons: they are reports based on two main sources, data from a 2011 study. We're in 2018. I study that is seven years old and in these years, Basque women and Basque citizenship have taken giant steps, since we all have more clarity about what violence is, we know that only the blows do not hurt and we denounce more. Therefore, it is a study that needs a review. This obsolete study is envisaged or better complemented, with study data at the state and European level. Although we know that violence in Euskadi has patterns common to those in other areas, we understand that we need up-to-date data from here. Facts about our local reality. The second source of data used by Emakunde is the reports produced by Ertzaintza on the basis of the complaints they register. And on the data published by the Ertzaintza we repeat what we have already raised on other occasions; first, not all women report in police headquarters, there are women who communicate violence to the Social worker, family doctor, teacher of their daughters, and never get to report to the police. All this violence that is attended to from social services, health, education, etc. remains invisible in Emakunde's reports. Secondly, from Elkarrekin We can present an initiative for the Ertzaintza to review its data collection system and how to publish them, because in the data of the Ertzaintza there is a sub-record, and in addition this was admitted by the Security Advisor herself in her appearance. Under the category of injuries, reports of machist violence are lost, domestic violence is mixed with reports of domestic violence of very different characteristics, and reports of machist violence are again lost. Neither are allegations of sexual assault by an unknown person or the feminicide of a woman with whom there is no family connection published as sex violence. So Emakunde makes annual reports with Ertzaintza data that are very improveable. And we hope that it will be improved on the basis of the initiative we are presenting here today, with which we have reached an agreement from all groups. In short, Emakunde's annual reports are a useful tool, yes, but they are now partial, obsolete in some data, and therefore insufficient to know the true dimension of the problem. This is why an updated, comprehensive and cross-cutting diagnosis is proposed, i.e. involving all sectoral departments and policies of the Basque Government and all Basque institutions. And after the diagnosis what? Well, unfortunately, we'll probably have to get our hands on our heads. Because we'll be scared of the data that's collected in it. But what we also have to do after getting our hands on, is to do and develop a strategy, a strategy of government that clearly commits all departments, with goals, with targets, with indicators, with timelines, with responsible and linked budgets. And these measures, we know and we are aware that they will take us months. And since we are not going to eradicate the Machist violence unfortunately tomorrow, in the meantime we must continue to respond to the immediate, improve attention and speed up the times of intervention. This initiative therefore proposes to implement telematic tools or devices, such as the APP that is already used in some Basque municipalities for direct and fast connection with the Ertzaintza. In this way, the good practice of the municipalities that have been pioneers could be extended to the whole territory. The design of the device has to be accompanied by the design of a protocol, so that the Ertzaintza, before a new working tool, is clear what the intervention procedures are. Obviously, a tool and a new protocol require training for the agents. All this is reflected in the initiative, an initiative, as I said at first, ambitious and very complete and, of course, all, all, all processes must count on the participation of the feminist movement and associations of women victims and survivors of machist violence. And so it is reflected in the initiative. In conclusion, I would like once again to acknowledge the work and willingness of all those who have participated in this comprehensive and ambitious agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u83	Good noon, everyone. It is plain that we need measures, and it is not the first time, nor the last time that we have undertaken such matters as concern the machista of violence, because we need measures, because we need steps, and because all attempts are always said to be very few, because this diagnosis asks for the consequences, or the photographs we already see. When, in the first instance, we imagined that, as Mrs. Arana has well explained, we needed some deliberation, and that this was necessary before we set ourselves to work, we should know what protocols we have in our hands at this moment, because they are different townships, and must be, because they are different townships, and ought to be, as it has been, to their reality, but which of them we could learn to look forward to, and to make different steps or proposals in the way of improvement. And so, among other things, you could see where these apps started in the party, with protocol, bars, bawds, committees, citizens, who arrived after work, and that's why we made such a big deal of importance. And therefore it seems to us that the best compact which has obtained is the possession of this generality, because it partly grasps it, partly because it seizes upon our present instruments, and especially because it marks the course of those steps which we are about to look forward to. That's why we saw it necessary to reflect with the feminist movements, with the peoples, with the townships, with the workers who start the protocols, because they themselves have a photograph of the everyday. Besides, we believe that we need to discuss the protocols that are now going on. Because some have already started, and we are able to extract a great deal of learning from it, to see what they have in common, to see what steps they can learn and see from each other, and what steps can be marked in a projection or standardized direction in those places where they are not in motion. Therefore, since we have, both the first and the second, the Diagnostic, many observations which we have now in motion, from the fact that they have no connection with each other, we believe that it is really important to attempt to collect them, because we have data, because we have data. It's true that sometimes we're talking about data a little backwards or 2011. So we need novelty, but often we haven't been able to get the consequences out of it and get the tools we want to start with these consequences. And this is one of the most important points which we think we have collected in this agreement. Because we want to study everything we have and draw results from it, because we want to draw proposals from it short, medium and length, because that's the way we're supposed to be dealing with the serious problem we're in now. So I think there's not much more to say. Ms. Arana has explained very well where we are coming from, with what circumstances we are at this moment, but I think it may be remarked that in such cases the necessity of agreement is great, because we are concerned in the institutions, especially because we have the power and capacity of taking advantage of these protocols, we find ourselves with a proposition which we really rejoice. I think it contains very well the proposals we made from different groups, and in this sense, that we shall bring back these and many others, because the situation is urgent, and therefore every proposition which we now have on the table will always be welcome. So, thank you for bringing this time and we're pretty sure we're still doing this kind of thing here. The rank, and the public thanks us for this rank, and in that sense the answer has been the way we're going to do and what we're going to do. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. The representative of the Potula group of Basques, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u85	Thank you, Madam President and well, Eskerrik asko President andrea. I'll scream, I'll come out. We are again discussing the subject of violence between women, and we have obtained an extensive agreement, as has been said here, an important arrangement. There's always something to do in this matter, and there's no harm in providing administrative duties, and in this case, with the agreement we've made, we're going to re-accurry especially to the Basque Mitch. As has been said here, when we talk about this subject, it is important to make a thorough diagnosis in order to guide the future measures, and, as has been said here, reports, investigations, plans, but we may sometimes say that we have not a general view, and therefore it is well to do this diagnosis with all the information we have, because this information is often divided. It's important also to reduce Intervention's times, and then it's important that the protocols have been updated. It was important for us also to send out the bill of law which the Government has engaged, and therefore, when we have discussed this subject, we enter this point, and thank ourselves for the consideration of the other groups, for I believe that the Government here has been engaged in sending the project against women's violence to the legislature, and we hope that the execution of that period and the delivery of that bill of law. As I said, it is important that we reach again in this House today an agreement on gender-based violence, the policies to be implemented. It's one more step. For us it is important to focus, and we have already done so here in the successive interventions we have on this issue, in aspects such as awareness-raising, prevention, intervention. And in this regard, we again place duties on the Basque Government in relation to the fact that the incidence of machista violence is reflected in a deep and transversal diagnosis. As has been said here, we have a lot of information, but often this information is somewhat scattered – in documents, reports, plans – and what is appropriate is to have an X-ray that includes all the information we have on this subject. In relation to the areas we talked about, it is important to raise awareness, prevent and intervene, and in the field of intervention we have one aspect in this transaction, which is to reduce the time of intervention, also with the possibility of putting in place specific telematic devices and, well, as well, to develop and implement protocols for the implementation of the corresponding devices. Another aspect that is also covered in this transaction, and which we also highlight every time we talk about this issue, is to give personalized attention to women victims of gender-based violence, abuse, not only to women, but also, something that I have highlighted in my first intervention, to take into account children who suffer from abuse, domestic abuse and who are also often clearly or directly affected by these situations. Finally, one of the demands that we put forward in all the initiatives we are discussing on this issue has been taken up, and we again urge the Basque Government to refer a bill, the bill committed to the eradication of gender-based violence. There are committed deadlines and we hope that the Government will comply with them. In short, one more step, and I believe that we should all welcome the agreement and the incorporations that have somehow been collected, I believe that virtually all of those proposed by the different groups in the various amendments have been put forward. And, in that regard, we welcome and hope that the Government will be vigilant, as we always say, in carrying out the mandates we have again given it in this area. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u87	Yes, thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, the issue of Machist violence comes to this Parliament every day and it is true that it is one of the most prominent issues on the political agenda of the Basque Government, sometimes because it is brought by the opposition and sometimes because from the government there are reports, plans and these comprehensive strategies that were asked of us today through this initiative brought to us by Elkarrekin Podemos. Of course, we share the diagnosis. The data are worrying and we must, in addition to being concerned, occupy this Government so that we can, in fact, be able to implement those tools that can put an end to this scourge that worries us all. As I said, we share the view that this is part of the first political line and I also believe that this is the case. And together with this, as we have said in the past, it must be accompanied by these good intentions, but also by the budget lines that make it possible for policies to be carried out. I understand that we all agree on this. This initiative, brought to us by Mrs Arana, had as its first objective, it talked about that mobile application that began to be talked about at Durango City Hall and that then Eudel began to work on demand from other municipalities, understanding that they should give service in a more general way to all municipalities. Indeed, the agreement that we have reached is a unanimous agreement and which, of course, the Socialist Group welcomes, I believe, we have all made efforts and, in order to reach unanimity, we have all left hairs in the trap; some of us would have had an impact on one thing or another and, of course, for the Socialist Group, the development of implementation seems to us to be important. The new technologies are to provide services and we believe that, through the development of these applications, taking into account the applications that are already developed in the rest of Spain, we could probably help or we could help, probably in a small space of time, that the issue of sexist violence can be addressed in another way. And the City Council of Pamplona, on July 6, 2017, launched this application and also completed it much more than there were in other parts of Spain, such as Alicante and Salamanca, which had also launched it. And we understand that it was in Durango that this application was born and from there it is how it begins to develop. We believe it is important that the response can be immediate, that different situations are taken into account and that this location can also be shared in an immediate manner. We believe, taking into account the amendment that we have signed and that we are going to vote on, that it is necessary to update the data, because there are and many data. Of course, Emakunde has done important work in the development of reports and in updating many of the situations that have been demanded of him. It is important that all the reports that exist are collected, updated and made of all this that comprehensive strategy proposed to us by Elkarrekin We can, in fact, in a cross-cutting way, all the departments of the Basque Government can contribute what they are responsible for in their policies. In addition, it is important to adapt the tools that already exist to the current reality and, as I said, in the innovation of techniques such as mobile application, and as I said at the beginning of my speech, to take on economic commitments as we spoke that day in the state pact. Yesterday we attended the concentrations that demanded the fulfilment of the state pact and that spoke a little, which in the end takes up a little all this about what we have been talking about in the last few weeks in the Basque Parliament. We therefore understand that the agreement reached is important, it is important first, because we have signed it by all the parliamentary groups and it is a starting point, bearing in mind that we do not usually do so on almost any subject. We shared, as we said, the fact that the diagnoses are cross-cutting and profound, but from the Socialist Group we understand that many diagnoses are made, many reports are made, many strategies are made, but we believe that we need to go a little further and, therefore, it seemed important to us, and it seems important to us, that at this first point a specific deadline should be set for this Parliament to be able to participate in those reports that are going to be made. We share the topic of protocols of intervention and information campaigns that are made, and many are made, we believe one with better results than others but, of course, they are made, and the fact that the bill on sexist violence is brought by fulfilling the commitments made by the Government also seems interesting to us. Therefore, we congratulate ourselves on the agreement reached, but considering that the original initiative planted the mobile app as the first objective, to know that we are sure that the Basque Government, the Interior Department will develop it, and to see if, sooner than later, we can all download that app on the mobile that gets what was proposed by Durango and that, of course, we have been copied in the rest of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u88	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u89	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for lunch. Today we were able to use new technology as an instrument against sex attacks. I mean, from the original request of the other law proposition, that we have gone beyond the standard we have had today, and that is what the representatives of the groups who have spoken before, have also said so. We've left the request of new technology on a second plane to avoid machista violence, and we've ended up talking about a general strategy established in Euvention by Euskádin, giving it this priority after all. To use new technologies as an instrument against sex attacks, which may be an additional initiative including or may exist between many others. Because of the opportunity for using new technology against sexists, as has been discussed during the past year, they were brought to the knowledge of the moving applications, like Bilbon or Durong. In San Fermin, 2017, an app started for such mobiles as this, and what is the purpose of these mobile applications? So the sexist attack is to avoid and prevent. Take advantage of technology as a deterrent against sexual assaults, as a prevention tool and as a tool to reduce time and improve attention in situations where such macho violence, such aggressions, arise. The mobile application put in place in municipalities such as Durango or Bilbao, allows to send to the local police the geolocation in case of risk of sexual assault. The subject has not been discussed, but I do find it interesting to explain in great detail how they work. They're not exactly the same, but they're similar. They have two alarm buttons, which connect directly to the local police station, in a simple way to give the warning, avoiding having to type numbers in situations of tension. The geolocationr sends agents the exact position of the users when using that system. In addition, there is the "I'm suffering from aggression" button and there is also another button like "I'm witnessing aggression." In the Durango application, for example, it includes a third button by which you can share it with friends or family members who have downloaded it, the journey back home, so that if there is a change in the route, any family member, friend, friend who was pending, can also call the police or be able to give notice. We therefore consider the development of the applications or telematic instruments of this kind as positive, though we say it is positive, though it is measure and instrument. do not prevent these sexist attacks from going on, unfortunately, at a moment. So, as I was saying before, this is another initiative, they all add, they all add, they all are necessary in part, or in the other, to make Euskadin's machista violence disappear. So there's a deep reason to need a telematic instrument, but it's not the main thing today. We know that this resource of the Durango City has been positive, we know that it's the Council of Bilbo. we know that other councils are also interested in this matter. The Security Department, therefore, has, based on these experiences, always on the limits of technical resources, and respected by competition, from a guidance and feminist view of the fertility of different institutions, a telematic system or application. And thus we have received the second point of the text we have given to-day, and this future instrument we have developed, in order to communicate in society, and so on, as it has been discussed, for instance, at the fourth point. However, as I said, this other initiative is that it may be useful at a certain moment, but it's not a cure and we women don't want to, we don't want to need this APP when we go home at night or by day, we don't want to go out tense, we don't want to go with our mobile APP in our hand, except when it's on the button... All we want is to be calm, go without tension, walk freely, walk without fear. And thus, in order to obtain it, there are other engagements to be made, and I go to them. And one of these would be at least one of those things today. text received at the first point admitted in the middle. And I'd love to make a couple of shades around this. The first point of the text between the groups reads: "To collect in a deep and cross-sectional diagnosis, the incidence and prevalence of the violence of the sexist, counting on the existing reports, studies and updated plans and updating those that are necessary, as well as the work that is being carried out in Basquedi on the prevention and eradication of the violence of the sexist, in order to visualize a comprehensive and objective strategy, which has the necessary resources and presents it to Parliament in the first half of 2019". What does this mean? We believe that he has a strategy of avoiding and preventive violence from Euskka. We can call it an integral strategy, with fixed targets, based on a Diagnosis based on Parting processes, on graphic data and cassitistic data. By establishing and co-ordination different protocols, it has space to develop this strategy. It keeps going. That something is beyond a department, that it develops indirectly, not only between departments, but also with the assistance of different agents. And since it is the head of all this, it is also the entity in which Eukadin equality policy develops and co-ordinates. But this strategy is to be made visible, as some of the representatives of the groups who have spoken before me have said so. Sometimes we lose direction between documents, plans, protocols and programs, and that can never be. We all have to be clear about the strategy. It must be a clever strategy for institutions and even for the whole society. So we see a very important point in this first point. All that All this done, however, being and showing what strategy is in a clear way. Lehen esan doubtan moduan, strategy hau garatzeko space lucky dago, and I would like to focus on this point, in this space which is the second interinstitutional agreement, because sometimes I feel that we do not know very well how it works or what the aim of this agreement is. This agreement is created... The first is created in 2001 and in 2009 the second agreement is signed, mainly as a result of legal changes and other developments since then, and complements protocols, collaborative agreements and other legal instruments adopted. This second agreement contains commitments made by different signatory institutions and protocols of action for the different fields of intervention: health, police, judicial, social and educational. They all belong to different entities together with the Basque Government, such as outlaws, such as Eudel and also bar associations, lawyers, as well as the Office of the Prosecutor or the General Council of the Judiciary. They are also proposed as a framework agreement that can be developed, concrete and appropriate according to the different areas of intervention, not to mention always that it is Eudel who coordinates. Eudel comes from doing previous work with high participation at the associative level as well as at the technical level. That's right. Each year the Committee on Follow-up to the Interinstitutional Agreement shall adopt a monitoring and evaluation report setting out, on the one hand, the actions carried out by each institution during the exercise of the Agreement. On the other hand, the assessment that these institutions make of the degree of compliance with the protocol of action provided for in the agreement. Why do I have to do this? It's just that it's very important. Because if we begin to list all the plans, programs, institutions, created spaces that we said must be collected and visualized, it seems that only with the title or with a statement remains poor and not so, because each of them develops in an important way. And yet, these spaces that I have just mentioned would not be the strategy itself – the strategy we are talking about, to which we appeal at the point one of the transactional. And before the question, I usually make a simile or I would like to make a simile in this case. To the question of what was first, the egg or the chicken, once I received an interesting answer, that if you believe in the creationist theory, obviously, the chicken was first; and if you believe in the evolutionist theory, because it was the egg. So, when we discussed equality policies in Euskadi, I can't help but make a simile of these theories mentioned, because we were trying to determine what was the important point, the central debate in today's initiative, and we were talking. But is there a strategy? And what is it? And where is he? Is it hanging on the web? Where can we pick her up? Where can we download it? And to answer all these questions comes to mind the answer to the question of egg and chicken and the two theories. And to answer this question in relation to equality policies, we advocate for the defense of evolutionary theory. What is the strategy in Euskadi for equality policies? For it has been working and looking back a long time, at all times adapting to new situations and needs, renovating, forming and taking firm steps and expanding in more and more different areas. While it is true that we can talk about a milestone that marked a before and after and is the Law for Real and Effective Equality between Men and Women in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u90	Finishing up, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u91	Bai, the president's walking. This law marked a new road map. I would not like to finish my speech without mentioning two other important milestones or two important spaces that we believe are coming to completion. Therefore, I will leave my speech here and continue in the second.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. We'll take the answers turn. The plum, over there? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u93	If I may, the president, from here. I would like to say that we are not mistaken, and that the initiatives that are being adopted here show that the current Government is running an automatic pilot and that the opposition has to come to set the pace for it and to tell it, once again, that it has to change policies, because the policies that are being developed and the resources that are being given or that are being implemented to these initiatives are not enough, because unfortunately they continue to die a lot of women and we continue, they continue to many women not being able to go to the streets free. I think it's important, and let's not be fooled, that neither Eudel captures the majority feeling of the women of Euskadi or of the feminist movement, so please don't be fooled. And neither in the second interinstitutional agreement, to which you refer, does it have a majority representation of women, nor does it take into account the feeling, I repeat, of the majority of women. And what they said on the streets on March 8 massively, more budget, more resources to abolish and tackle the inequalities that we women suffer in Euskadi. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. The jungle doesn't have to speak. Euskal Group Pionarian representative, Mrs Garrido? Not even. Rojo? Not even. And Mrs. Arridalga, okay? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u95	Thank you, Madame Committee. I would like to continue with my speech, because I had left a lot of things in my mind that I would like to mention. Mrs. Arana, how wrong you are! How wrong you are. I had not mentioned in my speech, which had already mentioned very important points and spaces, for example, the equality plans that were adopted in the board of directors of Emakunde, which mark the strategic lines of action and set the course to walk within four years; the deadline is medium-short, so that they can be more immediate. The VII Equality Plan, corresponding to the XI Legislature, will be presented and, if appropriate, approved next week on the Emakunde Board of Directors. Do you know how these equality plans are drawn up? Do you know him? There is no participatory process of this kind in any institution. It doesn't exist. If not, you tell me, it doesn't exist. Tell me, where? In what other institution? In what other administration? In what other community is an equality plan drawn up with these levels of participation? It doesn't exist. Not only participation by agents, associative movements, where effectively the feminist movement has an important part, the feminist movement along with different... Man, of course. Not everything depends on the feminist movement, there are other kinds of movements that also have their space, of course. Of course I do. So, I'm not going to go in and discuss this issue with you any more, because you know that's the case, you know that's the case. And it is that even the lehendakari himself on the previous Board of Directors of Emakunde, who is the chair, realized, realized what the processes and lines of work had been started, from a participatory approach, and that spaces and methodologies of work had been enabled for the different interest groups that make contributions. Having political, technical, social and citizen participation, with a contract at the technical level that has been carried out with the technical staff of the different administrations at the autonomic, foral and local level, the contrast with the women's association movement, at the political level, with the different bodies coordinating matters of equality and violence, and with the citizenry. The contrast and the collection of contributions have been made through a public consultation. Do you know any other place, any other administration?...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u96	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u97	It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Therefore, the issue of non-participation is no excuse. And this is a milestone, and these equality plans are those that mark and are an important part of this strategy. If you add the reports, the plans, the protocols, the data, the programs because it mentions a report in 2016, which takes as its basis some data from 2011, which is the least, because the rest, the rest, the rest of the reports from the last years that are published on the Emakunde website refer to the latest data. And to 16 in different, and to 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u98	Please. Please, Mrs. Arana, you've had your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u99	You say, indeed, why. The why. Because there is probably no official data from Eustat to be able to make official contrasts to respect, but with those who are not official, the institutions are working with them. Some data may not be up to date for some reason, but the rest say that it has become obsolete, when of all the reports that are hanging there and that are available to all of us and ourselves, the only one that refers to data from 2011 is one of the reports. And yet, are you right? You have to update data, you're right, I'm not going to take it away from you and that's what we're asking in the transactional, because it's necessary, of course, I'm not going to tell you no. Therefore, as I was saying, we were talking about that all these works have a journey, alluding again to that theory of evolution, has been working for a long time, is constantly in return and improves, of course, always room for improvement. But don't tell me that women are being murdered in this country for lack of budget. The only thing that counts is money? Is funding the only important thing? The funding? I say again to you, all this which I have just enumerated in my two speeches, there is no capacity to include it and to list it all in a single heading, but because the way of working in Euskadi in relation to equality policies is that, it is cross-cutting, it is cross-cutting. It is cross-cutting, because there are the municipalities, there are the deputies, there are the aid, the association movements, this Basque Government, there are the different departments. It is that everyone, in a coordinated way, works, works for one on this issue. So don't tell me it's just a matter of funding and marking in a box so many thousand more. This is a coordinated issue of work and, indeed, a real diagnosis is necessary, and indeed, a fixed diagnosis is necessary, in order for us all to be aware. Therefore, I understand that even though we have had this last rifirmrafe here, I understand that the transactional is good, I understand that it is a good agreement and I do want to thank all the groups for that ability that we have also, in fact, left hair in the catera, to be able to reach this point in common... And nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popular, EH Collect, Eukal Sozialists and Euzarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-17.u101	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Next, I'll read you two institutions of speech. Please be quiet. "The international day against the Homophobic, the transphobic, and the biphobic. "One day, May 17th, 1990, the General Assembly of Health Organization took away homosexuality from the list of mental diseases. "And now, on the 17th of May, he has become a boundary for lesbian, gay, trans, bisexal, and intersexal people. It is a particularly significant day, the symbol of the enterprises which proclaim the rights of the collective and combat against it. "In accordance with the day and its aims, the Basque Parliament admits of an institutional expression by confirming commitments and targets. Hence the Euscultian insists that all the Basque institutions ought to act on the principle of equality, and on the principle of equality, or on the orientation of sex, or on the principle of discrimination for the identity of the genus, and he encourages the society of eussa to defend these principles and to act according to them. "Two, by the orientation of sex, or by the identity of the genus, excludes every kind of discrimination, persecution, or violence. "Hiru, the Basque Parliament expresses its concern that at least 32 complaints of crimes and hate speech on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity have been registered in Euskadi, representing 25% of all cases according to the latest data provided by the Department of Security, and publicly denounces that this violence is the result of the inequality and structural discrimination that these people continue to suffer despite the progress made by our society. "Lau, Parliament will continue to promote measures to remove all existing obstacles to the effective and effective exercise of rights and to the prevention and eradication of all forms of LGBTI+phobic violence in all areas of society. "Bost, the Basque Parliament condemns laws, procedures or measures that by action or omission discriminate or criminalize individuals on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity and pursue human rights defenders anywhere in the world. "Six, the Basque Law insists upon the European Union" (...) "to condemn the laws of any place in the world against the persons and the defenders of human rights. "Seven, the citizen demands that the Government of Spain should be entrusted with special attention to the demands and demands of the demands of the malcontents and the demands of sexual orientation, or of the identity of genera, or of the lesbians, gays, and bisexal, and the defence of human rights." Institutional declaration of rejection of Israel's attack on the Palestinian people. "In recent weeks the Palestinian people have marched on the occasion of the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the Nakba, the humanitarian and human rights crisis that they are suffering in protest at the opening of the American Embassy of Israel in Jerusalem. On 14 May, Israel's repression of this peaceful protest was bloody, leaving at least 59 people dead, including seven minors, and for the time being more than 2,700 injuries. "Half of these injuries have been caused by live ammunition and 130 people are in critical condition, according to UNRWA, in Gaza hospitals medical teams are outnumbered and only fuel left to continue operations for seven days. "In the face of this attack, the Basque Parliament, bat, categorically rejects the violence of the Israeli army's action against thousands of Palestinians marching to protest the move of the United States embassy to Jerusalem, the result of which has been the death of 59 people and more than a thousand wounded, which has been one of the bloodiest episodes in the occupied territories since 2014. The Basque Parliament also calls on the State of Israel to ensure respect for the human rights of the people. "Bi, convey your condolences and solidarity to all people directly and indirectly affected. "Hiru, joins the call of the United Nations with the European Union and a large part of the international community, including countries and organizations containing Israeli violence on the Gaza border, following the bloody balance of casualties caused by the Israeli army in the face of Palestinian protests, avoiding any measure in the coming days that causes more casualties among the civilian population. "Eta lau, reaffirms the agreement of the Congress of Deputies of 26 November 2014 on the recognition of the Palestinian State." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-five.
