ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Tell him that the seventeenth point has been retired and that the twelfth is left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, "Unai Gravés Rodríguez, Eubertarians made to the head of the Economics and Sub-gulden Department of Economics," about the international enpresion of Enpres." Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. Mrs. Tapia, three weeks ago, we received what we called the plan of internationalizing 2017-20 of your department. For the past few years, the hardest years of crisis, we who have lived from the company's talents know that the internationalization of eusscals and economics is not an option, but a necessity. And the department you represent has a lot of responsibility on the way to help our companies. He clearly explains what new challenges are, what tools to be used, and how many capitals to be used for that purpose. As for the mills, it is plain that the main aim is to enter the global market of euphorcal and to lead to the international competition, and to this end you have identified the strategic axis, the supplemented values, the competitive intelligence and specialized capacity. I'd like to mention the origin of the Basque Trade and Investement International Agency, where all the qualities of the Basque MUDY in that field will be united, in order to integrate and strengthen our assets. Even international support programs meet on the planet. Two new ones, pilots and Deeps, came in front of us, Global contest, united 2025 and Landhome programs. You also mention the capital of human life. In the global context there must be people and organizations prepared for it and that's where two bekas of fashion are directed. Their object is, in general, a preparation for foreign commerce, and in general for professional professional professionals in the international zone. In the same way, it is a very valuable opportunity for young Basques to gain experience and knowledge in other areas of culture, and by means of which they are enabled to prepare their preparations and to move themselves, and to get into the market-place. As for the capitalist, all the actions mentioned will be provided with 94,1 million euros, and the platform of the Bacque Country Libertaces, which has already begun to produce results, is also present. Besides, we soon learned that you must open the office at Milan, and that's where my question comes from. What market is it going to give you the privilege of being internationalized by RedMork? Why Milan? What criteria have been followed for this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Grivorouss, as you have mentioned, may be the ones we've worked up in three main columns to encourage the competition for our support. On the one hand, the Industrial Plan, on the other, Science and Technology Plan, and the third, the International Plan. Also, as you have mentioned, we have several times said that nationalization is now not an opportunity for our meetings, but a necessity of doing so. But at the same time, as it must be, one must plan very well, and one must very well decide what one must do, how and when. And our international plan is mainly focused on small and average companies. The big ones are used to making their way, but if we're going to help the little ones, we've made the plan. He said, therefore, that the Internationalization Plan is one of the key elements of this country's industrial strategy, but it is not an option for our companies to export, to internationalize, but it is necessary to plan very well at what stage, where, accompanied by who and when. Therefore, our small and medium-sized enterprises are being directed towards this plan, and what we are seeing is that over the years our exports are already 30% of what GDP is in the Basque economy, that exports in Euskadi this year – data also closed in 2017 – have been 8.6% of the total state being our much lower contribution, which has grown by more than 10%. Therefore, it is a path that has been successfully undertaken, but we have to analyse very well in which markets we want to be present; and for this in the Internationalization Plan we have focused on two areas: the nearest geographical area and the furthest area. As far as the nearby market is concerned, Europe remains one of the strategic areas where more exports are taking place, where more internationalisation is taking place. Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom remain priority markets in which we must not forget that we have to compete with companies very similar to ours, and that we have to do it very well; without forgetting that, of course, there are other markets. There are others which are farther off, and which cannot be avoided, in some countries like China, Mexico, or India, and of course the United States. So what we've done is a classification. The SPRIA Internationalization team has made a bit of the primary, second and third, we'd say. So we would put the Europeans we have mentioned in the first rank, and in this sense we have Germany, the United Kingdom, and Italy, without forgetting that the United States, Mexico, and China, are also present, although they are distant. We'd place France on a second level, Brazil, Russia or India. And in a third, peoples that are interesting, which are not yet very present, but are necessary to follow. And that's where we'll have Korea, Japan, Singapore, and we've had some of the Marrucans, Colombia... Interesting villages, but they don't have a long career yet. Therefore, we are present in more than 70 countries with own office or through people who work for us, and the next opening will take place in Milan. We are working very seriously to make it in June and it has been shown that the offices opened in Germany and London in the past parliamentary term – in London recently – have borne a very important fruit. Germany has become the first export market in Europe, we have had to expand the office. Therefore, we believe that Italy, being a market that economically is very similar to ours in terms of strategy, in terms of areas of activity, without forgetting all our RIS3, we believe that it is an area in which we have great opportunities and that we have to work from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To question, the members of the Uuni Urruno Goldgust Group are made to the president about the conduct of PPk Katalunia." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u5	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Four months ago, I asked you about the disturbing situation the article could have caused by its application. From that moment we have witnessed the favorable and hostile initiatives of democracy. On the one hand, we have had a refrendum, and a testimony of elections, to verify the will of the society of Catalonia, and, on the other hand, against the decision of the same society, 155. article set. From that time forward we have also seen how the PP's government has displayed its true face when it has expressed its intention to change the education model which has been exemplary in the Catalan decades. And we've seen last week that the real aim of PP is to keep the government at all costs by using 155 and threatening anyone who doesn't admit of it for president if they're in the world to present Puigdemont, be Jordi Sánchez, be Junqueras, Turull, or Artadikel, to extend 155. So, what's your opinion of the President about PP? Do you think it's a democratic principle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Urizar, from the first day I have declared that I have opposed the establishment of article 155, and I can assure you that I have done everything in my power to prevent it. Today I think Catalonia needs a new, stable, strong government of Generality in order to recover the organizations of the auto-organization. 155. The determination to leave behind the tension created by articles, and to begin a new period of exchange, is that of the various sects and institutions of Catalonia. I have always respected the decisions which they make against the judiciaryization of politics, which is the most striking indication of the failure of political conversation. Political solution requires political dialogue. I agree with the four principal ideas given by Catalan, and shall say: One, it's troubling that the prisoners stay in temporary prison. Two must recover their confidence in one another, confessing diversity, and giving the preference to conversation, in order to find their agreements and their mutual agreements. Three, it is necessary that the Government of Generality should be formed, and for this purpose the members of the legislature must excite democratic contrivances. This government must take responsibility for itself, and help to overcome the consequences of the organization, the economy, and the social crisis. And four, the primary political problem created in Catalonia must be answered. This question, which influences the whole State, compels them to seek a fair solution which they may all receive. I therefore support this comprehensive proposal, and at the beginning of this new stage, to preserve the moral legitimacy of options based on respect for the inalienable dignity of individuals and peoples who are defended in a peaceful and democratic manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u9	President, I've asked you this question based on my answer four months ago, because we can really predict very little. In the treaty, at the time when you proposed a solution based on it, I see you are still going to it, and this is consistent with what you have said this year, but, as I believe, it is inconsistent with others you said at that moment. 155. You said the article was a disturbing application, because it would cause a rupture, and I think it was a breach that brought light. And you said that humiliation was to be avoided by the way of conversation, and that's what you said today, but you didn't have to, you didn't have to face it. Well, as I've just asked it, it seems to me that it's quite contrary, because 155 instead of a resource, it's becoming a goal, or if it's a resource, it would be the means of humiliation. 155 and humiliation are in the same sense at the moment. Humility, because PP has decided that the majority of the Catalunia society ought to be given a lesson. Remember that winner and the loser stage? Do you remember that stage where they tried to impose so much on us? Even in this case, this stage is intended voluntarily to be given by PP. Even in this answer you admitted that the majority of the people of Catalonia expressed their uneasiness for a long time by the unjust treatment they had received in their relation to Spain. The society of Catalonia complained of its relation to Spain, and in this sense was referred to the change in the state which was set forth in favor of negotiation and alliance. And with the change in the state, well, in a normalized way. And what was the answer to Spain? Well, what was the answer to Spain? It was the answer of Spain, first of all, that the inhabitants of the country would respect what they had decided to rule. And then came the inspections, the political trappings, the judicial cymbals. And among all these cespicles, where was the will of society? He wasn't anywhere. Remember what I said to you: Winning and defeated. Ever since then, the government has been trying for eleven times to place the proposals on the table and always to reject the answer from Madrid, not at all. When you propose the treaty, you certainly plan the opposite course of action. We agree with that, but we must have a mutual alliance. And, I assure you, there is no occasion for it at this moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, 155. You ask me on authority, and I seem to be responsible for your answer because it's mine, or that I'm responsible for the setting 155. I'll tell you that the Election in Catalonia was 80 days ago and that 80% of the population was part of it. It is therefore time for the government to be formed and restored by the organization of the auto-generacy to begin a new era. And in that I am obstinate, in favour of acting upon this new era. It seems to me that every day spent is a day wasted for the organizations of the auto-organization and those who would like a given day to become the government of 155. I therefore reiterate my position against the application of Article 155. I did and will do everything I can to avoid it. This application responds to an exceptionality that leads to an abnormal situation from a democratic point of view. Maintaining its application after the elections means breaking the social contract between the electorate and the electorate in Catalonia. It means prolonging an exceptional scenario, opposed to democratic normality. In fact, its deactivation will be the strongest indicator of recovery on a democratic normal path. Catalonia needs a new government of the Generalitat, stable and solid, that recovers the institutions from its self-government, opens a new time for dialogue and helps to overcome the current blockade. I hope it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, concerning the treaty of Family and Childhood." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u13	Good morning, everyone. On 18 January the Basque Government, the deputies and Eudel signed a Pact for Children and the Family, with the presence of the deputies, the President of Eudel and yourself, Mr Urkullu. Five men, Mr. lehendakari, absolute protagonists and only one woman in the pic. This photo demonstrates your Government's lack of commitment to equality policies, this photo and some others. Another day we talked about the photo of the Economic Concert at Arriaga. We understand perfectly why, among many other reasons, on 8 March the feminist movement called for a strike. Could you explain to them the reasons that led you to organize an act of these characteristics, in which you spoke of birth and family, leaving the only woman present cornerd in a corner of the photo?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, the Pact for Families and Children commits us to all the Basque institutions and, together with those who signed the pact, participated in the event the Counsellor and the Deputy Councillor for Employment and Social Policy, the three outlaws and the director of Eudel, together with the people representing the associations and social entities that are part of the Basque Family Council, among which there was also a good representation of women. We are all committed to equality and I assure you that we will implement it in the practical implementation of the measures envisaged. The signature, which is important, shows the commitment to the contents and values of the pact. The signing persons, who appear in the photo, have the maximum institutional representation and this means the maximum commitment to the contents of reconciliation of family and professional life, equality and co-responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u17	Look, Mr Urkullu, we know all the good intentions of the Basque Government, but the measures and budgets are insufficient. This photo shows us the priority given by your Government to equality, 0.11% of the total budget. She's like the only woman in that picture corner cornered. It's a film starred entirely by men, like all their photos, and we really want to trust their words, but it's not the first time, nor the last time this happens. We have the photo of this pact, that of the budget agreement, that of the Korta Awards, the photo of the Economic Concert, the photo of the meeting with the Basque sports federations, the photo of the Gangoiti Awards. It's systematic. This seems to be a country starring only and exclusively in men, and for women the schinite, the secondary roles. The photo of the signing of the pact does not represent at all the leading role that thousands of women are playing every day, as political leaders, social workers, doctors, nurses, residential workers, domestic workers, teachers and, of course, as mothers, grandmothers, friends, etc., etc. Because if we talk about care, sustainability of life and reproduction, if there's someone who's done it day after day, for centuries, uninterruptedly, that's women. The photo of the signing of the pact, however, represents a macho culture, which still reserves men the decision-making places and the applause of the public, and for us the schinita. We know that behind these five men, excluded from the act of the signature, out of focus, anonymous and invisible, as you have mentioned, there are thousands of great women who are protagonists in the reproduction of the society of life, but outside, in the schooner. Leaving them out of the act of signing a pact with which you intend to intervene directly on those spheres of life is a lack of respect for half the population. Look, Mr Lehendakari, it is wrong that you do not include us in acts related to traditionally masculinized areas, but that appear by signing agreements on care and reproduction without women is the top. These days, we in this Parliament are taking part in training to promote equality in this institution. Last week, precisely, it was working on communication on equal terms. The trainer, one of the most important companies on equality issues in Euskadi, emphasizes the importance of images in institutions, in the media and in advertising, to reflect a reality in which women constantly contribute to the development and well-being of this society, as well as for our children to grow up with references in all fields and sectors. With these photos, you and your government invisible women, and our girls and boys find no female referents. This March 8th the feminist movement makes an international call, for those who opened doors and windows, for us, for which we are here today collecting their witness and opening new paths, by which they will come and gather other witnesses and pose new challenges to society. It is up to us to celebrate the things gained, but also to claim the lost. Mr Lehendakari, I recommend that you put on your purple glasses and be responsible for the image you are projecting and, in addition, that they be exquisite in ensuring that the implementation of the Equality Act and of all the commitments you announce to Bombo and Plateau on Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I am sure that in the signing or signing of any commitment of such magnitude of importance if the maximum institutional, social representatives were men and were not the maximum representatives in the signing or signing of those agreements, you would criticise that the maximum representatives were not present. The important thing of the 18th, Mrs Arana, is the accession of all public institutions to the pact. I understand your question and what you want to say, but I assure you that this pact is a great step forward in advancing equality, reconciliation and co-responsibility between women and men. And I ask you not to stay in shape, but to take care of the bottom. And I give you an example, Mrs Arana, you in your party have just replaced a woman secretary general with a man secretary general. No one thinks, I certainly do not think, that for that reason his party will have less commitment to the equality of women and men. The institutional commitment, Mrs Arana, is expressed in facts. Euskadi was a pioneer in 1988 creating Emakunde; in 2005 with the first Law for Equality of Women and Men. Today we draw up the seventh Equality Plan. And this is what is relevant and what the institutions are doing. And I will report on some initiatives taken by the Government since the signing of the pact that day, on 18 January. Facts. Text of the Public Employment Act, which provides for the reconciliation of personal and family life; new proposals for parental leave; childcare leave for children under 12 months of age; childcare leave for children; assistance for women who are victims of domestic violence; free telephone and anonymous care for women who are victims of gender-based violence. Policy plan that includes the elaboration this year of the norm for the eradication of violence against women; commitment to the elaboration of the 7th Equality Plan; presentation of the 4th Basque Inclusion Plan, with actions to promote equal opportunities or increase the occupancy rate among women. Moving forward on equality is a priority of our Government, in fact, equality is one of the 15 country goals that we have committed. We women and men are going to do the same for equality, which is one of the Red Beechong priority, and that is why one of the 15-year-old goals is to go on equality, Mrs. Arana. And the treaty for the family that we have signed is a new step forward, and the most important thing is that all the institutions have agreed on this purpose, and we will continue to act among them in order to obtain this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamus, about the development of the e-commerce program and the applications." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u21	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Councilman, the Government Programme for this parliamentary term, as far as the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, which you lead, is concerned, sets out as an initiative to promote the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector and, among other issues, proposes to promote the integration of the commercial sector into information technologies and to increase the resources earmarked for adapting the sector to new types of consumption and purchase. It also plans to promote modernisation and training programmes in quality, technology and good practice in the commercial sector. You pointed out a year ago, exposing the strategic lines of your department's performance, that we needed to help companies that are part of the commercial fabric to have a greater presence in the network and, from there, to have a greater presence in the world, and that was through the adoption of new technologies, such as the internet, electronic means of payment, etc. To this end, he also considered it necessary in this new digital economy, to develop supports and policies that will make the sector grow in this direction. From the Socialist Group we have followed closely the policies developed in this first exercise of the current legislature by his department, in order to equip Basque trade with the tools necessary to face the new challenges, challenges, by the way, that it is already facing in a globalized market, in which the scenario and the rules of play have changed. In the budgetary memorandum for 2017, his department pointed out that a first line of action in the field of internal trade should be the promotion of competitiveness and modernisation, fundamental aspects to consolidate and grow, at least in the sector, as well as the dynamism of their employment. The Socialists support the budgets in which programmes were articulated, in order to facilitate access by the Basque commercial sector to new technologies. We are aware that these programmes aimed at gradually incorporating traders into new technologies and also proposed routes tailored to them, tailored to each specific need, with individualized services and post-emplantation care. Once these programmes have been consolidated, we consider it necessary to make an assessment of their results, also to reflect on their suitability and on possible improvement and growth actions for forthcoming calls. That is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what results have been achieved in the Basque commercial fabric by e-commerce programmes led by your department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Congressmaster, President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs Corcuera, in the commercial sector, it is no longer possible to talk about new technologies, the network and the cross-cutting impact that has caused on different aspects of life, both people and companies are already a daily reality. The sector faces with different strategies the challenge of developing new distribution channels, new forms of communication and relationship, both with its customers and with its suppliers. It is therefore clear that trade must be present and reach online visibility in an almost compulsory manner. A presence that must meet product positioning criteria, degree of exclusivity or shopping experience. In this task, the role of guardianship, support and training of the Administration provides an added competitiveness necessary to integrate into the new challenges. I therefore believe that it is an obligation of all public administrations to promote the development of programmes, tools, supports and policies that place the sector in a position to participate in an increasingly global and competitive market. In this sense, during this past year 2017 in fact, we have developed the Eu-COMMERCE Program that has made available to our commercial companies a service to develop its online positioning. A program tailored to the needs of the Euskadi businesses and that after an individualized prior diagnosis of our technicians, has offered tailor-made solutions depending on the degree of implementation and knowledge in e-commerce of each applicant company based on three models. First, businesses that did not have access to this program to any kind of e-commerce solution in place, but wanted to explore their possibilities, have been provided with a program to implement a basic e-commerce site. Secondly, for those with e-commerce solutions in progress we have provided them with techniques and tools to optimize and improve their platforms. Finally, those advanced businesses with advanced experience have been wanted to help in the development of new e-commerce channels, on the one hand the way of marketing with increasing impact of social networks, in order to know marketing and sales techniques through such networks. On the other hand, technical shops have been provided to those interested in selling on external websites, a subprogramme that has been targeted at shops with suitable products for sale on aggregating web platforms of offers. From the Eus-COMMERCE programme a total of 456 interventions have been carried out with 390 validated companies, spread across the three territories, 180 in Bizkaia, 130 in Gipuzkoa and 80 in Álava. The programme has included up to a total of 57 municipalities with very diverse characteristics and structures, not only commercial but also socio-economic. The programme has had a positive assessment on the part of the sector based on two key elements, firstly the boost to retail trade and, secondly, the development and professional advice at no cost. We must certainly follow the path of the digital consolidation of the sector and its positioning in the online world. In addition to this program, the department has also collaborated with other programs to improve the digitalization of Basque trade. The Department is aware that we must continue to drive the digitization of trade on two axes: collaboration with the sector and the optimisation of resources, taking advantage of the synergies that can occur through the implementation of different programmes. The adaptation of both management and management processes, marketing and sales to this digital environment, must be a priority for our companies and with that goal we will continue to work during this year as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u24	Thank you, chief physician. Five point in theme list: "Ask the president, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Eusila, a member of the Popula team, about autonomous workers." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you today about the self-employed in the Basque Country. According to data from the Ministry of Employment, between 2007 and 2017, before the crisis, now at the time we are recovering, 11,683 members of the RETA, the Special Self-Employers Scheme were lost in Euskadi, a decrease of 6.33%. At that time in Spain many autonomous people were also lost, but in the recovery we were able to increase it, and at the end of this period in Spain the country as a whole has increased by 1.54%. Before the crisis, self-employed people in employment in the Basque Country accounted for 9.5%, today it is only 8%. We have therefore lost entrepreneurship, initiative and have not yet been able to recover the number of self-employed we had before. In some sectors the data are of concern, particularly in the trade sector, because in Euskadi it is where the most self-employment in this sector has fallen. In the last 10 years we have lost 8,782 self-employed people, which is a drop of 21%. What's going on in Euskadi? During this time we have had plans, you have developed employment strategies, we have adopted a law of entrepreneurs at the request of the People's Party as well. I'm not asking you a question today to criticize you. I'm telling you, it didn't work, or the data isn't there. The question is what we can do for the future so that Euskadi is really seen as what it has always been, a land of people who take up business and a place where those who take the risk of having an initiative and creating things really feel support. I ask you, how do you see this reality? Do you think that the plans you have put in place are reasonable that they can prosper and what new measures do you want to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I would not just focus on one sector of the productive economy. In any case, I will tell you that the support for entrepreneurship and autonomous people is a constant of this Government and of the Basque institutions, and I also recognize your party's support for these policies, I recognize it. We closed 2017 – and I am interested in highlighting this, which we closed last year, 2017 – with a total of 173,000 autonomous people. This is therefore a figure which is already only 10% lower than the historical maximum that we reached in 2008, and only 10% lower than the historical maximum before the crisis period. And this doesn't have to be a problem. It should be recalled that the countries with the highest level of income and a more competitive industrial and economic fabric and the greatest capacity to generate employment for others, are the least self-employed in relative terms, and I believe that comparisons in this regard also need to be very nuanced. It is therefore logical that, in an economy with industrial enterprises such as the Basque productive economy, and productive ones that are increasing their employment for others, the number of autonomous people falls. In fact, this past February has been positive and closed with 1,091 less unemployed people. And this is what is happening in Euskadi, and on this path we have to follow, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u29	Wow! I, Mr. Lehendakari, don't understand you very well. This was for you to show up here, say, announce new plans. For example, you can do as they have done in Madrid, they have extended the flat rate, as they do in other communities, in Cantabria there are very good examples. I think you can copy good practices to encourage people to take a risk and set up their business. I think and I think so too, my group will present a battery of measures to the government to help it, but we are not going to govern. You're the ones who have the ability to see it. I wanted you to make a speech in favour of an ecosystem that cheers people to take initiative. But you tell me that the fact that there are fewer autonomous people is an index of the robustness, solidity and maturity of our economy. I mean, is it good that there is less?, he says, advanced economies have less autonomy. I don't think it's good. Honestly, I'm telling you, it's not good. Because it's industrial, was it that in 2007 we were a worse economy than we are now? Did we have less industry than now? We didn't have less industry. We have a serious problem, Mr Lehendakari. Surely what is behind the fact that in Euskadi there is less capacity to generate autonomous people is that we have a clear demographic problem. We have a demographic problem. But we do have a mentality problem. Look, 3,000 places are available for Osakidetza, 60,000 people are present. And people are in that mentality, "I take a test one day in my life and I have the safe place forever." And we also live in that speech by the Government. Paternalism, control, tranquility. Change the speech and change the speech so that Euskadi is an open place, where he wants to develop talent, where other people want to come and where, then, we are not engaged in that the young prepared Basques who want to undertake are going to start somewhere else and are going to set up their business in Madrid. And you have to realize that reality and change your speech and forget the role they play in saying "everything is going very well," "it's a normal fact," "it's okay because people don't want to start here." I want you to lead a speech so that Euskadi can again be the place where he most wants to develop the talent of all of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, my pretension when I go out to the rostrum is not to go out to look at me, no. It's trying not to mix things up and try to tell the truth. Mr Alonso, in Euskadi, support for entrepreneurship is not an outstanding task, it is a constant task. Last year, we approved the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2020, government, parliaments and municipalities, and up to a hundred agents, we are involved in this plan, in order to support entrepreneurs in a joint and coordinated way. The latest global monitoring study of entrepreneurship shows that Euskadi is at the head of the autonomous communities in indicators such as financing, access to infrastructure and government policies to support entrepreneurs, and this is what the study says. We're precursors of government. The culture of taking risks of action and creating new companies has been extremely included in our economy system. However, it is not enough and we must continue to encourage action, yes, especially among young men. And I agree, this is the purpose that we have accepted a special planning, which protects and develops all the institutions. We have to continue to strengthen the economic Euscal system in order to win competitiveness. We're getting the results and in February, as I said before, there's less work-out of 1991. Mr Alonso, according to the diagnosis, we have to continue proposing measures that will facilitate the creation of new companies, and in this regard we hope that the fiscal and social improvements in the social security of the autonomous people raised in the Act on Self-Employment Reform adopted last year, in 2017, will contribute to increasing the number of people who encourage themselves to set up their own company. We share the objective of supporting entrepreneurship. It is on our agenda and you know it, and you have also supported initiatives that we have proposed on the table. We share the objective of our programme, we do so with concrete initiatives, the promotion of the culture of entrepreneurship, social recognition of the autonomous person, support for new entrepreneurial initiatives, the promotion of intra-entrepreneurship within the enterprise, and, in general, the development of an economic ecosystem that favours the emergence of new entrepreneurial people. This is our daily occupation and commitment. A commitment that is permanent and shared with all public institutions, and also with socio-economic actors, Mr Alonso. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The Interition by Eva Lopez de Rockiebe Saez de Maturuna EH Collectors to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Separations, about which the State of Farm Women is to be taken. " Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u33	Yes, hello, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. I must admit that my question today includes two of the questions we have just heard. One equality, we put on the table, and the other, the new entrepreneurs. In this case entrepreneurial. Well, I'm glad, 'cause I'm gonna put it all on the table. Good morning, everyone. Before we start, well, I'll thank you and thank you for the women who came here today, especially the women in the country. Thank God for his work, or for his own work, he was grateful for his will, but thank God for keeping the people alive. It's really important that your presence is here, but it's very important in sopolitical lives. It is necessary that the division should be placed in the midst of discussion, and that is my intention today, the poneros encima de la mesa y poner el debatæ encima de la mesa. If we are talking today about the status of women farmers and farmers, it is because we owe it to them, not only to women, but we owe it to the sector itself, as politicians and politicians who are in this House today, it is our obligation, but because we are privileged to be here. We are privileged, but it is our obligation to give answers, and it is to what I come today, to ask for answers, to ask for quick, effective answers and to the needs that come not only from women, but also from the primary sector. I'm going to give you some data, some data that puts your hair at the top of your head like this at first sight. Over the past 10 years, people working in the primary sector have been halved, from 50,000 in 2003, to 25,000 who are currently doing so. And of 37% of women working in this sector, half are family workers, so at first glance, it sounds very bad. Family assistance is a particularly discriminatory work figure, because they are people without a contract, without pay, without recognition or for legal purposes and they do not contribute to social security; I think it is the worst figure we can find. The primary sector that is in crisis is nothing new, nor will I say anything new. He's in crisis. An absolutely miserable situation, a situation of dependence on subsidies, at the mercy of those famous markets that must be up there, which I do not know very well where they are, at the mercy of those who rule, of politicians who do not know very well either where they are, who decide what we are going to produce, when we are going to produce them and how we are going to produce them. Because of this already disappointing situation, measures are urgently needed; measures are urgently needed to ensure continuity, not only in the primary sector, but also in the people; measures are urgently needed to make positive discrimination against women, because it is the only guarantee that the primary sector and the people will remain alive. The tools we have, the tools we put on the table. October 15, 2015. That day I was in this House and I assure you that it was not political then; it was a woman more from Gure Soroa, it was a woman farmer more, but that day I left the farm, I left everything and came here, at the request of the commission of rural women, together with Tere Guerra, of Gauna, a woman farmer too, and we came to do a press conference with Mrs Tapia, because that day, because in those days we trusted that the Statute of Agricultural Women was a tool and a valid tool. We came and did the press conference, there was also opposition to that press conference to me, the truth and I am absolutely sincere, but we did it, because we trusted, because it was a historical claim and because, despite the fact that the Statute had gaps, we understood that it could be a tool to take steps. In 2015 there was hope, there was confidence that it could serve something. In 2018 I can say it's a fraud, it's a fraud, it's been a fraud and I'm absolutely disappointed. Moreover, in that room on the right Mr Urkullu came out, gave us two kisses and told us, you have a law of women farmers, this can solve you, this can guarantee that the sector is going to become dynamic, that women are going to work on equal terms. It was a fraud. It was a fraud and I lived it in the first person. And today, two and a half years later, almost three, I have to come here and ask you to get going. We're just asking for a law to be developed, as simple as that. And this House and the people who are here have an obligation, as I said at the beginning, to do. As a political bet it was a fiasco, it was a fraud, I just said it. To be honest, EH Collect believed in the State, it's true, and most of all in your will, in the will of the government. The women inside of me believed that it would be possible to introduce a law and direct action in the first sector, but we haven't seen it for years, and today, the interpenetration, it's not our intention, it's not our intention, it's to put it on the government side, and we'll be able to do it. I have just listened to Mr Urkullu two sentences that have impressed me and surprised me. On the one hand, he said "maximum commitment to equality and co-responsibility". Well, we have a chance to show it in the primary sector. But I have also heard that there is a 0.11% budget for equality; if of that 0.11% we want to allocate something to the rural part, with the specific weight so low that it has, we have it very difficult. He also said, "that he is not going to take the form," he told my colleague Eukene Arana, to go to the bottom; for that is what I ask of you, Mr Urkullu. September 22, 2015, just that day, two and a half years ago: "A pioneering law that boosted the role of women in the Basque agriculture sector," Urkullu said. It said "an innovative project – an impressive word – that does justice to the role of women in the sector and takes a step further in society, committed to equal opportunities." This is short enough for me, the talk of innovation is short enough for me, because I think it's not true, I'm sorry, they're going to forgive me. Two and a half years later nothing has been moved, nor has it been fulfilled, nor have measures been put in place to put in place, nor has it been developed, nor has it been implemented, nor has a euro been put in place; when it is not put on the table or a euro, it is a lack of political will. So it is up to us as an opposition to move our anger, our rejection, our tiredness and as a person, to me, for I really think they should even give me an explanation, because nothing has been done since then. So, yes, I know what Mrs Tapia is going to answer, I know, a report has been made, indeed, in 2016 a report was made; in 2018 the report is updated, oysters, we need two years to make a report, that there is nothing new, that those women who are up there know what it puts in the report, that women are in unequal conditions and 2017 we use it to update the report, when it is a report full of Eustat data and it is such a simple report. A report that, honestly, does not give news that any farmer woman does not know. But I'm only going to give you two data. 3% of women holding farms are under 35 years of age, but 60% of women over 60 years of age are farm owners. I think it's a scary fact. We just heard an undertaking. Well, this doesn't make it easy. It is not worth saying that the table has been created, because it is true, it has been created just on January 23, 2018. It's not worth saying that there's a group, that yes, that's going to do, that's going to take steps. We think this apartment is late, it's too late and it's wasting time. It's not a serious bet. I was saying, if they haven't put money on the table, it's not a serious bet. I am going to try to speed up, because time is running out and I am going to focus on the Committee on Rural Women. Another review. The Rural Women's Commission as a structure and tool is effective, of course; administrations are involved, of course; associations are involved. Trade unions are also missing, associations are also missing. But the only objective of the Rural Women's Commission, right now and in recent years, has been to organize the International Day of Rural Women on 15 October every year. I'm a rural woman, but I'm a hard worker. So, with a whole department of the HAZI Foundation, in this case the government, dedicated itself to organizing the 15th of October, it seems rather sad to me, it seems rather painful to me. A committee that has no objectives, a committee that does not have a specific planning, that does not have a planning and that does not have all the actors. Then there's something missing. We have just received the answers from the Government, because I myself have put questions to the Government and I am really concerned, because nothing is answered in all these questions. There's no answer. And I'm going to go to the last one, which is the one that most impresses and tells me, when we were talking about the follow-up committees, if they've started. And who marks it? It says, "it marks the law." Yes, of course, it marks the law, if you put it and put it on the table the law. But if the law is not enforced, it is not put into effect. So, bukatzeko, Mrs Tapia, I'm going to be very concrete. Leave us a first today. Tell us that something is finally being done and that we have something on the table. Tell me you have a plan, you have something closed and you have a schedule. Tell me who's gonna do it. Tell me you already have an allocated budget, that there are euros, that there is money; then, I would leave here convinced. Tell me you're taking action. Tell me you've already spoken to the agents concerned, please, it's that if you don't, we're not going anywhere. Unions, cooperatives, organizations, that affect them the first hand law, because any article we would read about would be forcing them to take action. Do not tell us that they continue to drive, that they continue to work, that they continue to favor, because to say that – I have learned something in this House – is not to say anything, is not to go anywhere. So, compromise yourself, please, in terms of time, shares and euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u34	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u35	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mme. Lopez de Laroyabe, it's true. In 2015, you were here looking through all this, and I'm sure you know so many good things you ask, but I'll try to answer. And you mentioned the origin of this law, and the reason why women have suffered or suffered in many ages or in many places has been here also. And you also mentioned something that's very interesting, and that in agriculture exploitations these women are calcified as family support. And it was, in some measure, derived from this intention of making this law work, and this was done among all. For it was time that women, in fact, suffered in agriculture and fought against dissemination, but also for professional rights. That's what we agreed on. It's true we've been doing that report for two years, like you said. It's true that it's been a long time, but it's not quite true that there was a group of women who were so conscious that there should be so many things to do that they had to do as you were. But there was also one great job to do with so many others. And we needed to know exactly what was going on with all the women. There are many of you in different associations, but there are others that are not, and we should have reached them too. So that record work has been pretty deep and it's been quite potent. And right now we have that. From there, what have we done? Could we have done it in a year? It's possible. We've been slow to do it, yes, it's true. But I think we had to work very closely with all those people who might not be as aware as yourself, as many of those who are here, and we had to know very well and identify the needs of all those who were not so visible, and make the public sphere also be analyzed there. Having said that, I'm not going to say that we couldn't have done it before, right. Throughout 2017 it has been completed. What have we done since 2018? The follow-up commission, which was said by the law, had to be launched and the follow-up commission on the Statute, as you say, was set up on 23 January 2018. After that date of 2018, January 23, what have we done? What have we devoted ourselves to or agreed to? We cannot turn our backs on the fact that, as you said, in addition to the Basque Government, outside parliaments, trade unions and many other actors are involved and concerned by this law and therefore we must work to ensure that they are present in all the actions to be carried out. On what lines of work has this follow-up committee agreed to be set up? Well, that committee has decided that it will work on women's ownership of agricultural holdings, on enhancing women's representation in agricultural sector entities, on adapting regulations, on recognizing and making visible women and their role in the sector, and on training within the sector and from a gender perspective. These are the areas that have been agreed by the follow-up committee that will work. As a first step, the first, which has already been launched, has been proposed to analyse and revise the selection criteria in the RDP measures, in the third amendment, including positive action weights for women, as set out in the Statute. Negotiations have already begun for acceptance by Brussels and this work will continue in these months until it is completed. The first rapid regulatory action is therefore already in place. What else has the follow-up committee decided? Well, set up working groups with all those actors involved in the four areas. In the first of these, the farm registration group. Well, update all the data, put it into operation, feed the registry well and especially evaluate shared ownership and how we have to work all the institutions we are involved in the registry. In this group, of course, in addition to the parliaments, the Committee on Rural Women, which you say does nothing, because something is usually working, and the representative of the Directorate for Agriculture and Livestock will also be present. The second group is that of visibility of the Statute itself. Evidently, the most important action will be to ensure a balanced presence in decision-making bodies and to make women visible through different campaigns, and also in this group will be present all previous people, representatives of Eudel, trade unions and so on. In the training group, which is the third of them, in addition to assessing the training needs, not only will the people who are going to be working on the different farms be trained, but we will train the trainers who will continue in that work. The fourth group is the legal group, which will review the autonomous, the foral, the local, gender-sensitive and in line with the existing legal framework. On 23 February, 23 January, the committee was set up, on 23 February, being aware that we have to work faster, we are already starting to work in the farm register group, making the register of farms that the Government can have with the outlaws, well, as it is carried out in a coordinated way, and that there is a single general register that is perfectly defined. We are committed to taking the necessary steps to reach agreements between different competent authorities and to ensure that we have adequate communication. In addition, the Staff Regulations and Training Working Group are already being convened for the month of March, with all prepared persons. The legal group has not been convened, it is going to be convened in April, because we have previously also made the commitment, each of the institutions, to carry out an analysis of the legislation that exists at this time, how we have to deal with it, to what extent, to what extent the Statute for Women Farmers is fulfilled and possible measures to improve it. With this work done previously, the working group will meet in April. And from there, we will define exactly what the performances are in each of these groups. We will define the necessary budget so that they can be carried out and, if they want special resources, beyond those already defined within the RDP, for example, or any other action will be put in place and the necessary resources will be made available so that they can be a reality. So these teams are running, all of them agreed in January, and we know that we've been two years and that maybe we've spent some time, but I think we'll be able to get back into business and our commitment is there. And as soon as the engagement is over, in January, the committee meets the first, and the crews will be almost in February and March, the last, as I was saying, in April, and don't hesitate that the money will be put as far as it takes, and if need be, he'll be ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u37	Yes, well, good morning again and thanks. I'm going to tell you the truth and I'm going to be honest again. I love to hear it, but two and a half years ago I also loved to hear it, I gave my face and of course in two and a half years I haven't broken it, but it has to be justified. So, yeah, all those steps are great. First of all, I have not said that the Committee on Rural Women does nothing, at all, do technical milk work, but the objective of the Committee on Rural Women is not defined; it defines organizing on 15 October of every year, bringing 200 or 300 women there, organizing that day and doing so rather as an electoralist. And so it is in the last few years, that I have lived it in the first person. So, that really hurts me, because capacity has, tool is good, let's count on all the agents and let's get it going, and it works, as you just said yourself. I am glad to be in the same line; but I am not alone, that is to say it seems that it is Eve who is fighting, no, there are a lot of women from an association, but there are a lot of women who not only ask for more backpacks, but above we ask them to form, but above we ask them to study the Statute and above we ask them to come to the meeting of the rural commissions by the face. So, honestly, because there are technicians, there are techniques working; let's ask the women, who already have enough, what they can give, not a little more or a little less. Women are being asked for more effort, well, let's ask the administration for a little more effort, because to come here today I'm sure some have had to leave everything up, very safe, then, well. On the subject of the RDP, we will follow it closely, I love to hear it, but we will follow it closely. The RDP as a fundamental tool to save this primary sector and to save the living people; for the moment little movement, we will see. And I'm going to finish, I'm going to finish and with something that I had written, then it can't be much replica, but I have written it because I didn't want it to be forgotten. And I think you know him better than I do, which is the sorority issue. The women who are up there also know it, because they have certainly been trained in lots of courses, and it is something as simple as solidarity between women in the patriarchal context we live in. It is an alliance between women; it fosters trust, mutual recognition of authority in the event of it, and support for achieving the generic power of all and the vital empowerment of every woman. In the primary sector, in agriculture, in rural areas, such empowerment and solidarity among women are absolutely necessary. In other words, we need alliances, we need to break the barriers that put us on the table, that we have them at all times, and we don't need other women to sustain the barriers, we need to break them ourselves and we have to break them day by day. So, well, I'm gonna finish. The women farmers and livestock, apart from rural women, who are, with great pride, we are workers, so on October 15th we will continue to celebrate Rural Women's Day, but on March 8th we will celebrate. And let's celebrate it, how? Going on strike. So I am going to the bench specifically of the Basque Nationalist Party, because, above markings, I would like them to join us, because March 8th is going to be a historic day, it is going to be a day that will take steps and I regret that they will lose it, because this claim is on the table. So I, as a woman, rural, agrarian, and worker, will celebrate and strike on March 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u38	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u39	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, under no circumstances have I intended to say that only you follow this and that it is your claim, for nothing. I know that this is a really relevant element for all women working in rural areas, and there are many rural women alike, because we live in rural areas, and there are too many in this House in the opinion of someone. Obviously I'm not going to ask you for a blank check or anything like that, we're just going to work through the year and we're going to see it at the end of the year, and we're going to evaluate it together, if you've met expectations, if we've been short or if we still have to work a lot more. The PDR also, where all the administrations are, I think we have to follow it very closely as you said, and we have to carry it out. And of course, many steps are being taken in the primary sector. And let me give you an example of what happened yesterday afternoon, because I think it comes to unite two aspects that you yourself said at first, which is entrepreneurship, enterprise, rural and women. And yesterday they saw in Gipuzkoa, in Donostia, the prize for women entrepreneurs and directors of the year, and the prize for women entrepreneurs was for Maria Jesús Insausti, it was for a person who has a very important agricultural farm, which is also dedicated to the food industry, and I think it was the first and only time that an award has been given to an entrepreneur in the primary sector of these characteristics. Of these characteristics it is the first time that, together with industry, which is usually where it is most focused, it precisely focused on a person who comes from the rural sector, also understands it as an economic activity, as an activity that really carries on business and traction and I want to recognize it – I recognized it yesterday – and I think today is a very interesting day since the status of woman farmer, woman and entrepreneur, all in one we gave it yesterday. That's the way I think many of you are here every day, but, well, she's an example that we valued yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interregation, Myria Llanos Gómez Espulian Groups of Laws for Economics, and the Chief of the Sub-States, 4th Bar 4th of Bilbo. "about the line." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the chronology of what I'm asking you today, from line 4 of the metro, is a chronology that comes from afar, which already in 2008 you decide to abandon, decides the Basque Government to abandon the tram to get to the Bilbao district of Rekalde and bet on the metro. And so, in 2009, it is evident that this line is going to be studied. The then Deputy Transport Advisor, Mr. Gasco, stated that the works could start at the end of 2012 and Mr. Arriola, who was then a Housing, Public Works and Transport Advisor, announced its opening for 2016. That same year, in 2009, the Basque Government announced the possibility of extending line 4 from Moyua also to Matiko, with two intermediate stops: Euskadi Square and the University of Deusto, and announced that the coaches of that line would be located in the Rekalde district. In 2011 the preliminary draft of the new line was approved and it was shown that the implementation of the new line would last 47 months. But already at the end of 2014 by the Basque Nationalist Party, which was already in the government again, at the head of the Basque Government, it is said that for this one, that for the Basque Government this line of Rekalde is not a priority. Thus, Mrs Oregi here today also present, being the advisor of the branch, pointed out that she had not started in 2015, but that she was not going to do so in 2016, nor in 2017, because, as she said, there were other more priority projects. In September 2015, however, since the Bizkaia Provincial Council and on the part of the Transport Council, Mr Reyes of the Socialist Group, when asked about this infrastructure by our spokesman at the Bizkaia General Councils, it is pointed out that no, that line 4 has not stopped and that the drafting of the constructive project of that line 4 of metro, corresponding to the Moyua stretch, would be tendered in November of that year. But the truth is that little influence must have, I don't know if the little influence is of the Socialist Party or the little influence is of the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, but of course, this subway line we see little progress. We're still on the timeline. In February 2017, last year, spokespersons from his department reiterated that it is not a priority for the Basque Government, and announced that at least until 2020, administrative procedures relating to this metro line would only be carried out in their case. It is not a priority, although this is not entirely true. Yes, it is, it does seem to be a priority. In the campaign, the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party and those of the Socialist Party, also today a member of this government, pull this line from line 4, line 5, as an electoral resource. Just like the commitment to the commitment to sustainability. In the electoral processes, in the electoral programs, we see that this line does appear, I have told you on other occasions, in the electoral program of the Basque Nationalist Party, for the 2012-2016 legislature this line appeared along with line 5. Now that's right, the last legislature went blank. In the programme for the elections of this, of the current legislature, too, and in the government agreement signed with the Socialist Party, the line also appears. But then, when it comes to moving on from the role, when it comes to translating it into a political and economic commitment, then it's gone. That commitment to these lines and that commitment to sustainability then remains in a decorative political slogan. Because this commitment is not accompanied by a proactive attitude towards public and sustainable transport. Because, Commissioner, to appeal to public and sustainable transport, it is not only to say, it is also to carry out actions that prove it. And actions that go beyond planning and reflection, because we spend our lives planning and reflecting. We need to move on to the execution of works and infrastructures that really place that commitment to sustainability. Because when the time comes, for example, in the case we are now, to push the promised line 4, then we are talking about budget availability, that we do not have budget availability, and to see how the collection is going. Well it seems that now the collection is going better, so, now that we're recovering, what about line 4? Because I said it the other time and I want to reiterate it now. You, when it comes to claiming what you call Madrid, have claimed the Basque Y in times of budgetary goodwill and in times of budgetary difficulties. That no, that there were economic difficulties the truth is that it was not an impediment for you, with the same fruition and passion, to claim the "And Basque". And let's face it, that this claim has not been necessary, because the political and economic commitment of the People's Party government to the Basque Y has been present at all times. But if it had not been, then you, as I say, would have said that there is no compromise, neither economic nor political. If that's what we moved you here, what do you mean, counselor? That the Basque Government has no political or economic commitment, nor to the neighbours of Rekalde, nor to Bilbao, nor to Bizkaia. It's not a priority and it's getting clearer. The last time I called Mr Lehendakari, whom you answered, I gave everything to the Bizkaia Mobility Authority. He replied that the Mobility Authority had to analyse how the transport as a whole was. In May of last year, that authority already announced the drafting of the Strategic Plan for Public Transport, which, in addition to obtaining that more current photograph, determined what were the main lines of the institutions during the next decade. The technical specifications of this Bizkaia Strategic Public Transport Plan 2018-2028 were approved in June. Among the lines to be set by the plan, it is, for example, whether it is necessary to build more metro lines and, if so, to determine with what priority. It is said that the potential demand for these infrastructures to be made, their real urgency and whether there are other options will be determined. It implies that when the system is seen as a whole, other alternatives are seen as a better solution to needs and the economic cost must also be assessed. I ask you, Counselor, are we really, really going to analyze it again 10 years later? 10 years lost, 10 years that have not served anything, because we are worse than 10 years ago, worse than at the starting point and we are not even going back to the starting point, because at the starting point, 10 years ago, it was clear the need for a metro line 4 that would connect the neighbors of those neighbourhoods of Bilbao, of forgotten neighborhoods, like Rekalde, like Peñascal, of forgotten neighborhoods of Bilbao with the center of Bilbao and the rest of Bizkaia. But now no longer, now you have to see, you have to see if the existence of that line 4 is adequate. Now it is said that other lines of transport must be contemplated, even the bet on the bike can be said. What are you gonna tell Rekalde's neighbors? Everybody ride a bike? Is that gonna be your bet? You told me in the previous one that if you asked the neighbors of Zumaia, that they sure wanted subway, but two questions I want to tell you in this regard. First of all, I don't think Zumaia's neighbors have been promised the arrival of the subway for 10 years. Have you gone on an election campaign to Zumaia to say that you were going to set up a subway line? And the second is that it's not about liking, it's not about liking, it's about which is the best option, and you over all these 10 years have considered that the best option the mobility of the neighbors of that neighborhood, was to have a subway line, because the bus line you have right now, of course, does not work. If the goal is to remove the cars from Bilbao, to remove the cars from the roads, you have to make real bets, so I ask you what the Basque Government's intention is in relation to this line.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u42	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u43	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Llanos, in that chronology that you have done you have forgotten a subject that I think is relevant, and that is that being counselor Nuria López de Guereñu, I would like to remind you, 2005-2009, the work of the tram was awarded to Rekalde, and yet he gave up because it seems that there were certain difficulties and that it was not the most appropriate. Then, a commitment that already existed, funded and awarded, someone decided that he did not want to do it. Let's get out of that situation. From there, it seems that the ideal is a 4 metro line, and on December 18, 2012 the public information study is taken out, they start to do all the environmental impact assessment, sure you have all that. 2015-2016, the informational study needs to be adapted, because environmental regulations are changed, with the consequent complementary as to cost as well. In October 2016, the drafting of the construction project of civil work for the Matiko-Moyua stretch, which, by the way, costs almost 1 million euros, with a forecast of completion in July 2018, then, we are still in time. But in the development of this drafting, of this constructive project that is being carried out, a constructive approach is made absolutely different from that which existed in the informative study published in 2012, that is, a constructive solution with a station in Moyua that is dug in front of one that was made in the open sky and then was covered, that makes the informative study useless and has to start again. Okay. How are we now, then? We continue to work on the constructive project of Matiko-Moyua, July 2018, as I told you, but we need to reformulate the informative study, because it does not serve us for this new solution, we need to finish the constructive project Moyua-Rekalde and we need to write, in addition, the projects of facilities of both sections. It is not stopped, you may find it very simple to do all this, but it turns out that planning in a transportation system such as the subway is very complex and you know it perfectly, and at the time of carrying out the constructive projects many things happen. What investment costs, by the way, are currently estimated for the construction of this line? Because it is also made a precedent of what can result in cost. There are 370 million euros in construction, plus what I would suppose, which has to involve the construction of new workshops and garages, and the introduction of the mobile material needed for this line. But in addition to that line 4, we are not only on line 4, we are evaluating and carrying out the informative study and the constructive projects of line 5, which are also required, because they also appear in our government program, line 4, and line 5. Line 5 is Arratzu, Galdakao, hospital of, in the area of Usansulo, with an estimated cost also of 266 million euros. But the information study and constructive projects are also being carried out, which are essential for the beginning of the work, and I want to stress this, of the connection of line 3 already completed with the airport of Loiu, therefore, there are also all the forecasts being made according to the government program, if you want to read it to me, and whose cost amounts to 161.5 million euros, well, which we already carry more than 700 million euros. Each one is in a different situation, but it is also that we have to work something you told me, the high-speed train and its arrival in Bilbao. And don't mix things up with me, because it's not that the Basque Government claims, or not only that the Basque Government claims that the "And Basque" is finished, but that Europe itself – and you know it too well – is demanding the Spanish State to carry out that work, to finish that work, because it puts at serious risk the aid that is being brought from Europe, because it is an infrastructure that had to be completed by 2010 and will be, with a little goodwill on the part of everyone, in 2023. But having said this, I think we are working at a good pace right now and also with the loyalty enough to make it a reality in 2023. I am not going to enter into that debate, but not only is the Basque Government asking for it, it is a European claim. In addition, work is under way on the part of the Basque Government. In addition to that, the southern variant railway introducing a Bilbao communication solution with the Loiu area, you know well, that it can be a tram or it can be a smart electric bus, using different modes of construction and you have to work it with the city council itself and in it you are in. And besides, building the railway variant of Ermua and you know it too. That is, many projects that require reflection, yes, and I do not deny it, and an important reflection, because we have to analyze each of the projects and, moreover, completed the reflection and the constructive projects, evaluate what is called cost benefit, which you often draw on different projects, and evaluate, according to the best solution, the cost and benefit that we will get, and that is how you like it or not like it. Therefore, in addition to doing all these projects, we cannot forget a very important debt situation that we have on the part of the Parliament and the Government, which amounts to nothing less and nothing more than in December 2017 to 374 million euros long for the construction of line 1 and 2 of metro and which reach up to 2027. Then, it is true that the investment policy in infrastructure must be well planned, reflecting, carrying out the cost-benefit analysis and preparing all the projects, so that at the necessary time they can be carried out and we do not have to start carrying them out. But, it is true, the situation of the investment capacity of the Basque Government today is not that of a few years ago and as much as this improving the collection, you know that we also have other elements, that we have to go amortizing the debt and besides that our debt capacity is, it is going to be what it is. Therefore, we have to realize those projects that are priority, even if you don't like the word, and priority means attending to the maximum number of people with the maximum capacity, and on some occasion we will have to see if it is a metro line, a tram line or a bus the best solution, and we have to give the best possible solution, but we will not forget any of them and you know perfectly well that all the necessary planning is being carried out to make it a reality. And once planning has been completed and the cost-benefit analysis carried out, within that Bizkaia mobility authority, which you do not like very much, because you will make the right decision and you will decide whether to first put the line to the University to Leioa, whether to do line 4, line 5 or other action. The decision will be made between all the institutions involved, with all the projects completed, and with all the seriousness and rigour of the world, as I have no doubt that you like to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u45	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, you must be delighted with these inquiries, because it gives you the opportunity to come out here, to publish a report, to publish a report, of what appears on the programme, because then if you go down to the reality of the works, you stay in that, Madam Counsellor, in the report. And besides, I have to recognize a virtue, which is that it does us a task, that it says everything in the intervention, and that the same thing is worth it or wants it to be worth it so that it really commits to the line of Rekalde, because it tells me that it is that we have to do the informative study again and that is why the constructive project of the Moyua-Rekalde section cannot be awarded, the same goes for it, that if one reads after all, so that one will not do the line of metro 4 and 5, nor the tram to Loiu. Because you give me the initial report and then again, very subtly, very subtly, true, very sybilically, I begin to do the maths, as you have also tried sybilically to blame the government of Mr Patxi López's Socialist Party, which already existed a work, but which then decided not to continue with it. Look, you guys have been running since the last legislature, and the truth is you're, at least in relation to line 4 and line 5, totally stuck. All your report that you've told us here is that. And you talk to me about the Basque, I imagine, and we are the first to want the Basque, but when you want in the commission of the work it is because you are able to face all the infrastructures of the Basque Government plus these commissions, I say. And he's talking about budgetary difficulties. Man, everybody's. Those of all Governments have all experienced the same budgetary difficulties, all of them. What's the difference? Central government, commitment to Euskadi; Basque government, zero commitment to Bizkaia, zero commitment to Rekalde, zero. Because of course, you're talking to me about... "no, it's that there are difficulties, because of course, because this, now we have to go back." Look, we've been doing this for years, which is that this hasn't happened in the last legislature, that we've been doing this for a while. And I assure you, if it were a priority, they would have set the accelerator. But no, it's not a priority, because then you at the end of your speech already get me out of the fact that, of course, you have to think about it, so you have to see what is the best solution, if it's a meter. Well, say it clearly. What I'm asking you here is for me to say clearly. Line 4, the rest of us will talk on other occasions. Line 4 to Rekalde, yes or no? It's very simple. Yes or no? Because the rest, what you do, isn't that I don't like it or stop liking it, the authority of mobility in Bizkaia, is that the rest, you know what it is? One kick forward. You know that thing about when you don't want to make a decision, you set up a commission? Well, this is the same thing. When you don't want a commitment, make a plan, think about it. And, no, of course, the Basque government of unthinkable people cannot blame them, no, because reflection reflects, we are going to think, but at all times, at all times and at all times, and reflect on what has already been reflected, and we spend our lives reflecting and our lives planning. But it is that the neighbors of Rekalde, the neighbours of Peñascal, the neighbors of Iturrigorri, the reflection, the approach does not serve them, what they want is compromises, what they want is to be told if the metro will arrive, yes or no. Plus, they don't even ask for the subway anymore, it's going to be either yes or no. At this time they are conforming to the fact that the constructive project of the Moyua-Rekalde section is a reality, because I don't know if you've been with the neighbors, I do and they settle with that, see if they're good to conform. And they just want that and it's a very easy commitment and that commitment we're going to bring to this House, to see what the rest of the groups are saying, now that we're not yet in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u46	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u47	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs Llanos, for if you understand that I love you and you are dedicated to making various inquiries, for I will be delighted and answer you everything you need and all the times you consider. But what I do see is that, I don't know, I don't think you've heard more than you've been interested in, because you're telling me to commit to the constructive project. But I've told you! July 2018, but it's that the constructive project has a time and the informative study has a time, and don't tell me to award the constructive project, no, it's been awarded for a long time, what is being done is being executed. And the other section exactly the same, plus the review of the informational study. But do you hear what I'm saying or not? 'Cause of course it looks like I have to be repeating it. The constructive project is there and will be carried out and the information study will be reviewed as the situations change but, of course, from there, since we are not the only concerned administration, we will have to work on it within – and I sincerely believe that you do not like it at all – the Bizkaia Mobility Authority where all the competent and interested institutions will have to work and will have to analyze what the priorities are for Bizkaia territory, and they will have to analyze it among all, we will have to analyze it among all. And the zero engagement with Bizkaia, don't make me laugh, please, because the whole House must be sneezing with laughter. Well, what are we playing at? Do you read the documents? Are you simply reading the budgets, or are you simply putting white lines above the corresponding items? Because it is an argument that, in the end, that it falls by its own weight, it does not deserve even to be answered, really. When I was talking... And I'm going to go in, line "And Basque", I wasn't talking about the order, no, I told you about the entry into capitals and when we talk about the entry into capitals, in the three capitals, in two of them underground, it means that the government has to put its own resources, it's not a management order and you know it and if you don't know it, consider how the entries in capitals work when they're underground. And in that case, it involves the administration's own resources. And even when we have the order, many of the constructive projects and much of the technical assistance goes on the administration's own resources, then little involvement of the Basque Government, no, it's not true and you know it. But if you continue to demagogy, I will come as you say to read my book, obviously. Because if you don't tell the whole truth, I'll have to come and tell you the real part that you didn't want to hear. I understand that when you come here, you say what you're interested in to see what the relevant advisor or counselor answers, but it's that the counselor or counselor is usually aware of his or her budgets and the actions he or she has to carry out. And in that sense, please, let's try to work so that things are done in the best possible way in Bizkaia and in either of the other two territories, responding to the needs that are with the best solutions in each case. But let's not go with apriorisms to say let's make a subway line or a tram or a bus, apriorisms no. We will do the corresponding work, we will do the work of informative studies, constructive projects, let us analyze the cost of each of these works, the benefit that will be obtained and what is the best solution. And from now on, it's going to be our way of acting. This is already being done and of course we are not going to get off that train and allow me the expression in that sense. But also from the mobility authorities, in any of the three territories our commitment is that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: The question is, "I'm asking the state of the APC company of the Casanova Alonso team members of EHGD" - "about the state of the APC company on the Alpha team." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u49	Yes, good morning, everyone. Today we bring back the state of company in the APC Alpha group, I should say a serious situation. After many years of bad digestion, things at the end of the year were accelerated in an improper direction. In November, the management of the company presented a field for 40 workers. Before that there was an answer from the workers to call for a strike, and in front of it, either as revenge or as intention, we know not what, but the proposal of the settlement introduced by the company. This settlement is still in progress, so we're on 131 jobs. This company is located at the Eibarai, in Gipure, in a region with the highest price of unemployment. Besides, we're talking about a historical company, and his last chapter may be typing at this moment, with serious letters in the Basque Country industry, there's an Alpha name written, and unfortunately, we can stand, as I said, in front of the final chapter. As the workers are engaged in an exemplary struggle, they fill up 96 days on strike. Doakie from here our greatest applause and hug, because they are actually showing their company and their rights an engagement and passion. And what we're asking you at this critical moment is if you want to do everything you have to do in order to guarantee the future of this company and the future of the jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, I'll start at the end and the answer is yes. And you knew I had to answer that. But I think we have to solve certain things first, and that is, as an Alpha APC company, through a contract which, as you know, obtained an exit from a process of creditors, from a previous process, and in the agreement of that kind, one thing becomes clear and clear, and that is, the fact that the characters know it well, unless it be met with this agreement, if it does not depart from the firm by agreement, it automatically leads to the settlement. It's not that the company decides, but in the second part, it's automatically going to the settlement, and that's why we're in this situation right now. Therefore, it should be noted that APC came from a situation of a creditor's tender, where such a tender had been successful through an agreement, but that in the absence of a good solution, the signatories of the agreement know that the undertaking in second instance automatically does not reapply for a creditor's tender, but goes directly to liquidation. We were working once the competition was lifted to improve, but the numbers have not accompanied at this time and, therefore, we find ourselves in the situation that you detailed. In view of this situation, at the various meetings held by the department with the workers, three very specific messages have been transmitted to them, in line with what we are doing. The government will collaborate and collaborate in the search for investors, as always, who may be interested in putting forward an offer in the context of the liquidation procedure in which we find ourselves, which can give continuity to all or most of the work or activity of APC, as always. Secondly, we are always willing to mediate in labour relations, as long as the parties so request. It's condition sine qua non. But in this case, given the situation, which is not a first tender for creditors, but in this liquidation situation, this is not the case. But we continue to work, both from the industry and from the work side. Thirdly, we have also told them that perhaps the best situation at the moment is not to be in a strike, since it can seriously harm the possibilities of continuity of the project. But we are absolutely respectful of the decisions they make. In this sense, we continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that the continuity of this company to the extent of our possibilities is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u53	Yes, I mentioned the workers are on strike, and it has also to be said that the right of strike is to be violated by the management of the company, and that in front of which the workers have already submitted a complaint because many irregular things have occurred in the inspection of the work. And as an example, we can say that every name on the first street that the company has predicted is that of the strikers, of all the members of the Companion Comite, involved in the strike. This company is very clever, this company's office is very clever at breaking up the right of strike, it's very clever to distribute bombs, because it divided 2,3 million dollars at the expense of another operation and obtained money, knowing that the company was in a very difficult situation, but the bonds were distributed, as we saw in the answer to a question of this group, the company received 3,5 million dollars from 2009, almost a million dollars a year and a half a year. It is very clever to tear the rights of strike, distribute the bonds, demand public contributions, but very little management, and we are under the circumstances of this administration. We know that at least one of the investors is interested, we know the situation in which this company is critical, if the investor is there, and now it's the time, with all the forces involved in the government, and with the other institutions, to push everyone in the same direction, to introduce this new investor, and to guarantee the future of the company. And for that, we think it's essential to keep and respect the board required by the workers. And what they ask in this table is to sell the whole company in a single logo, the subrogation of the jobs, if it's to be fired, not traumatic, indemnization in these cases, and to improve the process according to its transparent and objective standards. We have seen it so far, because it has suffered sybarisms or syndicate pursuits. If this is the moment for us all to join together, we think it's urgent because we're all red alarms and we're in the right back. And in that detail, I'd like to applaud the contribution of the workers, the struggle and the commitment to the workers for the firm and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u54	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u55	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I agree, Mr. Casanova. I think it's a serious moment, and we all have to work, but it's true, as you know, that time is marked by competition. So, what's our goal? Working with workers as you do now. We have had a number of meetings in twos, and we are ready to follow that the intern should be as convenient as possible to make the best offer possible. But in that case, when you tell me, you can't do it, but you can't do it on purpose, because that's a concursive administrator. But do not hesitate, in our relation to the concursor, that we always place those important to us who are important to us, to continue our activity, to continue as many jobs as possible, and to sell them at once as much as possible. That's always our request. From that point on, it'll be the administrator's decision. You also mentioned a couple of other things, and they are, when they've got subsidies, they've been to study, and they've done all their duty, and they're keeping the Alphas important to us. And from another point of view, I think we've been here, it was his right, but, you know, it wasn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the future of the Bois, which is situated in the township of Lemoi, in the development of the economy, and in the sub-subjugations of the United States." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u57	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, a lot of work today. Well, here's the Kale of the Forest. I brought it in just in case somebody doesn't know what's here. Here, what was meant to be a nuclear Lemoon Plant, and which fortunately was not started. However, we've been through some of the consequences of the project. We've left thousands of tons of porters and iron in vain, and there, in the course of 40 years, by a francist decree, the forest that has been stopped in the control of the Iberdron. But the concession ends at last. With our push, this was accepted in Biscay: "The Great Houses of Biscay are asking the Indubinous Foru of Biscaia and the Lemoi Town to be able to hold the nuclear Plants for the recovery of the Earth." The next announcement came in on the budget set by EAJ and PP, saying: "El Gobierno se compormere a ceder demediata a las institincioness vascas, los teroros que actual oculpa de Lemoiz," etcétera, etcétera. And last of all, he came in on a press conference given by AMIK and he said there was a fish-feeding project. And to Basordas, because it also seems that he wants to get a submarine cable from Bordeaux, and between the farm and the arrival of the cable, in the end it seems that we will have to give the reason to old Arzalluz, with that that without Lemoniz we were going to eat cribs lit with candles. And fate's ironies, so many years later, will come to Lemoniz, nuclear power and fish ponds. In the last plenary you, with a little irony, appointed me world advisor; I pick up your glove and here I send my first recommendation, free of charge and for those at home, and I leave to Mr. Retortillo a point, a slogan, for the tourism campaign that comes, that is, "Euskadi, neither cradles, nor candles; nuclear locusts", to see if it hangs. Turning back to facts, we have some questions about the process. We want to know how the recovery process is, we want to know how this negotiation with the government is going and whether it's doing it with the Iberdrol or not. We also want to know whether the farm project that has been presented is really grounded or is going a bit of a balloon probe. We want to know what will happen with all the affected space, the 280 hectares, not just the area occupied by the central, to see if the whole or only the part is being negotiated. We want to know, and the inhabitants of Lemoiz want to know whether they are going to have decision-making capacity or are going to be invited stone in the decision-making process, because after 40 years of theft we believe that the last will on the ground should be theirs. And, of course, we also want to know how Iberdrola will compensate for the forced occupation of all this land during these 40 years. That's why we're asking if things are going well, because we don't know if we have all the information.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, in addition to appointing you as a world advisor, I think I'm going to name you a friend of the paper cluster, because you usually come here with a lot of paper drawings and, well, I'm almost going to name you the main friend, but, well, jokes aside. You were wondering if we were doing right, well, what we agreed with the Party Popular, and that those lands, which we were making were not used at this moment in the hands of the Iberdron, had no use at all, and besides, there was no use, no alternative for that land, and we began to talk to the ministers to recover those lands. The agreement we had with the Popular Party was to start this procedure, and even though it says "ceder demediata," as it is said, it has legal proceedings and there is a committee appointed for it, and for that purpose there is the Iberdron, because it is their concession at this moment, because it is also the Minerister, because it is also the same consecration. The General Directorate of Sustainability of Costa y Mar is also involved, since there is a part that is at sea and is the land-based maritime public domain, and the General Directorate of Energy and Mines, of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure of the Basque Government, which is ultimately going to receive these soils. It has been clarified what is the proper procedure for that to be a reality, which has cost us far more than you can think, clarify the procedure, because there are many actors involved, and, at this time, it is proceeding to defuse the land that is in the maritime-terrestrial portion, since it is an important part, then proceed to recover the concession, which is being made in parallel, and be able to recover those land. So, as to the recovery of land, however difficult it may be, it goes on, and there are two possibilities, cut out everything and get it back, even if it's an opportunity, to create a job and make a economic activity, we've done something for the second, something that will be bearable, and at the same time, because we're going to promote and promote the job and economy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u61	Well, there's a few more doubts. Not your location, but there's PTS, (... There's a PTS. Two alternatives are proposed in the Basordas cove intervention: dismantling and recovery of the original state of the cove, or the implementation of activities compatible with the protection of the coast, prioritizing those that contribute to the recovery of the site and, in both cases, the drafting of a special management plan will be required. The PTS says that the executing agency, Lemoiz City Council, Iberdrola, Diputación, Gobierno Vasco, Dirección General de Costas, and I don't know if this has been done, that is, I'm a little afraid that you're putting on that phrase that you like so much, that of the "car in front of the oxen". I mean, I'm saying we've sold a project as very advanced and still, I understand, there's no such special ordination plan, which is why it said if it was a probe balloon or there really was something behind it, ezta. I don't know if that executive organ is the committee you're talking about, the PTS, or, well, I'm not clear. And then there's a doubt about the community's involvement or part of the town in Lemoize, but it's like fun to hear about all the decisions and then, I don't know what it's getting into. And 200 acres, you haven't talked to me about another 200 acres, and I've still got my doubts. And then Iberdro, clarro, Iberdro, he'll play the part.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u62	Time has passed, Mr. Otero. Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Oster, from behind, it is true, he takes up all the acres, for the Iberdronus had the concession over everything, although it was only partly cultivated. So it's all about redemption, that's clear. You're supposed to make a special plan, it's true, it's not working yet, and the committee I was telling you about isn't going to get the lands for this, so we'll have to make a special plan for it, and we'll have to work with the council, the Blue Foru, and all. Why did we put this project on the table? Well, it was a long time since there was the most different interest, both local and foreign, to create an economic activity in it, about the aquean cult, and we thought that before we made an alternative of the special plan, it was interesting to start a project like this. And what we've done is a study, if it could be economically effective, if we could get enough money to make it work, if we had any private interest, what kind of jobs are created, what kind of activity and so on. That's what's been introduced and it's obvious that it's possible. When the earth has recovered, and a project like this can be made, and I think it's quite compatible with the area, it'll have to be decided how to work out a special plan and set it up, not do all the lands back without doing anything, but create a economic activity which will be tolerable and will do the best use of the earth. That was the point, but the special plan isn't done yet, the reason.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, The Tinisha Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Eplegus and Societys, concerning violence and sexual abuses of children and teenagers." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u65	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, chief of the board, members of the Parliament, ladies of the department. In the first few months of 2017, we've known cases of sexual abuse against teenagers through media. Those news and some details of the sexual abuse trials show us that still today children and adolescents face numerous fears and obstacles to communicate and report that they are suffering violence or abuse, violence that leaves individual physical, psychological and emotional footprints, but also social and living together. In December and January, we had some very serious events in Bilbon, the murders committed by some teenagers, and we were surprised. A second agreement was reached in this legislature on this subject in June 17 and, after a while, we want to refocus on the prevention of violence against children and to know what is being done with regard to the agreements adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u67	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. With regard to the first point in the agreement concerning your question, I should like to comment that from the Department of Employment and Social Policy we are working to give special impetus to social service observatories, which are a fundamental tool for defining social policies. We want the various observatories to be coherent and coordinated, because in this way all the information that they provide us will do so from a comprehensive and complementary perspective. We are already at the final stage of the process, so it is scheduled to be presented on 19 March. In this reformulation and coordination, as far as the area of children and adolescents is concerned, we also have the cooperation of the Standing Committee on Child and Adolescent Care. A new system of indicators more in line with current realities has been introduced, from which the situation reports on children and adolescents will be drawn up in Euskadi. As regards the second point of the agreement to which your question relates, the 2018 Budgets have allocated an amount of €40,000 for the conduct of studies for the Observatory for Children and Adolescents. These studies include the preparation of an evaluation report, with recommendations on policies for prevention, early detection, care, protection and redress in situations of violence, abuse, sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, child pornography, trafficking in children, children and adolescents in the areas of the home, the family, the educational system, the workplace, the community and adolescent criminal protection and liability systems. In addition, it is also available to Basque children and adolescents Zeuk Esan, a help desk, with immediate telephone assistance, led by professional and qualified personnel, to address any concerns or problems affecting them. In this regard, we also have several projects under way that seek to secure attachment and it is shown that fostering the link between parents and the baby – young children – prevents child abuse in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous, for your information. With violence, we are faced with one of the most serious forms of violation of the rights of children and adolescents, and this concerns us and we understand, in the light of their words, that it also concerns us all. Violence is a terrible factor of violation, but above all, and recalling the words of Aitziber Bañuelos, Eraikiz kolektiboa in this very Parliament, on sexual violence against children, there is a sort of social pact of silence, which in the end allows or facilitates aggression. Even if we know that this statement is very hard, we care to remember, because we have to end it with compact silence. Because informing the family with girls and boys who have been abused is helping to break that pact of silence, recognizing the victims and recognizing their suffering, and that is an indispensable step in redressing their violations. Tell me honestly what we're doing and breaking the silence, because this is the right way for children who suffer violence so that teenagers and families don't feel lonely. Breaking the silence means that perhaps with our public support, with public speeches about these violences and real measures we can contribute to that 2 % that denounces, we can contribute to let girls, children and adolescents know that it can and should be denounced, because citizenship and institutions will be at their side. That if they decide to denounce they know that we will not revictimize them, that their situation will be relevant, and that the solution and reparation is a task for society as a whole. We have been pushing this initiative for months now, which we were talking about, to help improve those protection mechanisms. In this Parliament we have already unanimously reached two agreements on this subject, and it is not in the mood to criticize or to make it seem that nothing is being done, but I do want to use this space to ask you what dates these studies are expected to be published. We know that progress has been made and, of course, we place much of that progress on good agreements and shared commitments, but we do believe that it is still necessary to make what is far more invisible than it should be visible. In that regard, if we had liked his department to do so periodically too, for the recognition and knowledge of the affected families themselves. We must not forget that the same violence which children and teenagers suffer, are subject to their families and whole societies. That's all, thank you again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u71	Mrs Guanche, your concern is also our concern and, therefore, in this case we will fully agree. I mentioned earlier the initiatives we have made and the only thing I am going to repeat is what we have focused on, strengthening that Children's Observatory, giving it more and better content and skills. We are also working to establish a technical table for the knowledge and analysis of the needs of children and adolescents in Euskadi. As I have also mentioned earlier, we have reserved in the 2018 budgets €40,000 for the recruitment of studies for the Observatory for Children and Adolescents, which envisages the preparation of an evaluation report, with recommendations on policies for prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation in situations of violence and any kind of violence against children and adolescents, but we do not stay there either. And in this area, it is also necessary to provide us with tools to prevent situations of abuse of minors and agile tools for the protection of minors, and in this issue, inter-institutional collaboration, as you know, is essential. Thanks to this collaboration, the decree regulating the Valora instrument has been implemented and updated, which serves to assess the serious cases of situations of risk and neglect of social services, both municipal and out-of-town, for the care and protection of children. And among other issues we have also worked to speed up the intervention processes. Preventing, caring for children who suffer from serious situations is a matter of concern to us all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Euspulic Team Membership of the Environmental, Planting, and Housing Department of the House, meeting with the Administration Council of the Azpens." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Mr Councilman, at the end of last year the decision of the Basque Government to grant housing in Vitoria, specifically in Aztegieta, to a family known as Los Pitxis that had caused many problems in Bizkaia, many. They were afraid of the neighbors they didn't know how to live with and those they threatened. With this background it is normal that, in view of the news that a dwelling is to be granted in Aztegieta, the neighbors want information about the concession and that they are concerned about it. At this time, from this group we will not focus on the decision of the Housing Department, nor on the family, which as I say has starred multiple altercations in Bizkaia, but from our group we will ask for a decision of the Housing Department that we do not understand. As we show in our justification, the neighbors, through the chairman of the administrative board, asked to be received by their department. Up to four times since 12 December, the chairman of that administrative board has asked the department that you conduct a meeting in order to be heard, to raise questions on which you would like to obtain explanations and to set out your views on certain matters. And you have refused to receive them to this day. We don't understand that lock on the part of the department with those neighbors. A government that shows itself to be the people's government should start with the first and fundamental thing, which is listening to people. Receiving, listening, meeting either with an association, with a collective or with a person at the individual level does not imply giving reason in their approaches, but it is a duty that all institutions that are said to be in contact with citizens must fulfil. Therefore, in view of these facts, we would like to ask you to answer the following question: What criteria justify that your advisory has so far refused to meet with the administrative board of Aztegieta?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u74	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Llanos, our department usually serves and responds to all people and entities, and if it is possible to meet them. And in this case, there has also been a timely response to the question before us. Why haven't we met with Aztegieta's board? Look, the first meeting was requested on December 13, just a few days after the housing assigned to the Manzanares-Cortés family was assaulted and destroyed. The purpose of the meeting was – and I read it textually – to provide a solution to this reality before the facts could be repeated. Any person shall understand from the text of the application that the purpose of the summons was not to know the mechanism by which Alokabide's housing in Aztegieta was awarded to this family, but to obtain a revocation of the administrative decision that was adopted in an appropriate manner of law and following the procedure. In response to this letter and three subsequent letters, the department has given a comprehensive presentation to the representatives of the administrative board, what objective and regulated rules are used and why the award took place. Moreover, the vice councillor of Housing, agreed with the president of the Association of Councils of Vitoria-Gasteiz, to meet with the president of the administrative board of Aztegieta and with herself last day 19 to explain all these extremes. However, at the last minute the president decided not to attend this meeting and condition the meeting to go with all the members of the board and on the day and time they had decided. Therefore, there has been and will continue to be a willingness and dialogue to explain by the department. Now, if what you're trying to do is something else...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u77	Counselor, will for dialogue, your department has shown rather little. The meeting was already on record, but you wanted to impose who was going to go to that meeting and they didn't want to. Anyway, I'm glad if they're really going to hold the meeting, because in the first answer – and I left it there – they textually say they're not going to meet, they tell the neighbors they're not going to meet. And it looks like they're not meeting because you're already prejudging. You prejudge the intention of the neighbors, even if that is their intention. You are not obliged to do what the law does not allow you to do, but as a counselor and as a politician, as head of a department, you are obliged to receive neighbors. In the last answer, you also refer to the fact that the family provokes animosity, as if you wanted to see if you read that answer, that Aztegieta's neighbors were racists, people with prejudices towards certain families. And I want to tell you, Counselor, that it is not so, that what you are concerned about. But they have reason to be worried! Because in 2016 members of that family were investigated for 23 apartment thefts in Bizkaia, because they accumulate more than 350 reports of threats, assaults, raids, thefts... Because the neighbors of Ollerías Street in Bilbao expressed themselves to the situation that they lived in their neighborhood with this family; because members of this family have shown with much that they do not know how to live together, that of course, precisely easy and peaceful with them is not coexistence. And that's why it's normal for neighbors to be worried. And that's why it's too much to ask for you to meet with those neighbors? Is it too much to ask the heads of a department for a minimum of involvement, empathy, sensitivity, to receive neighbors who are worried and who only want to be heard? I don't think so. And I hope that meeting is held.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u78	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u79	Look at you, Mrs Llanos, I and anyone can understand that a community may have reservations about the arrival of certain neighbours, especially if they have previously been presented and stigmatized, without further evidence, as a public danger. But this is not the issue of our department. Our department has to determine whether this family has housing rights and objectively meets the requirements for access to a housing managed by Alokabide. Nor do I question the neighbors that this family has the right to be in a home. In fact, in their writings they say they agree that this family enjoys a home and can live in peace, but consider Aztegieta not the right place for these people. They question why they have not touched the house in other neighborhoods such as Salburua, Zabalgana or Ali, and why they have touched them in Aztegieta. The question is that, in compliance with the law and the procedure, the house has touched them in Aztegieta. Point. This is the answer. The objective criteria and procedures on the basis of which housing is awarded have been explained in detail. And here's the thing. I'm going to tell you one thing, I've been mayor, in my life I'd think to condition a meeting with the government or the Gipuzkoa Parliament, in my case, to have the entire municipal plenary present. There is a chairman of the board who will represent to some extent that board. To the extent that after all this process had been achieved through the mediation of the President of the Vitoria Administrative Boards, a meeting with the Department, I do not know how much it makes sense to fail and not to hold that meeting. We remain open, but logically, in a context in which we can work things out and explain things as they are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u80	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz together with the staff of Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, about the license and the changes that could be made in the Ordiian Education Centers." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u81	Yes, thank you, good morning. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. On 9 February, the pre-matriculation campaign for the next course was completed, the provisional lists were published yesterday and the final lists will be published on the 22nd. We are, therefore, in the period of baring so that the centers that have more demand than offer of square can ask. For this reason, we ask the following question: what will the Department of Education do if the Ikastola Jakintza of Ordizia requests a change in school planning during the baremation period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u83	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Madam Macazagaa, in the first place, must be cleared up several aspects of the prescribed regulations, and the camp. Because we don't have to mix the process and the registration process to ask for education planning. On the 30th of October 2017, the 4th of October 2017, the Solicitor of the Board of Education and Service, which opens the time to present the petitions, to change the plan of the treaty between 201811 and 2021-2022, and to make new treaties. From the first day of November, 2017, November 30th, two days later, this summons established a petition for change of planning, and for that period a new pact to be submitted. Only at this time, and not after, may the petitions which depend on the resolution be made. After reporting the temporary request resolution, the time to examine and respond to the proposed requests occurs within the process. On the other hand, on January 15th of January, 2018, he had issued orders to present a common calendar and a free consenting order to the schools and private schools in the Central Education Department of the Basque Autonomy Institute, the First Education, and the Foreign Education, and the Offendal Schools of Foreign Education and the Penitentiary of the United States, as well as the instructions of accepting students in those schools. 3. as is established in the article, these are the common calendar and time of the procedure to present requests and accept students. To present demands and proofs from January 29th to February 9th. March 1 for publishing temporary lists. So we're going to run charges for the time being until March 14th. To refuse the order until March 14th. And to publish permanent lists, March 22nd. As we can see, though time for transfer and premium of approximation against the temporary solution of requests to change the plan, are independent processes. In answer to your question, I will repeat that whatever request you make will be reported against any time you express it, because it is automatically out of date.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u85	Counselor, Ordizia is just one more example. Another locality that once again highlights a reality that has become something common in other municipalities of Euskadi; we are referring to the fact that the vast majority of foreign children are enrolled in public school in Basque. We are referring to the fact that school segregation exists and that it is a reality in Euskadi, and we are referring to the urgent need for this Government in general and its department in particular to take measures to reverse this situation. Measures to ensure equality in the education system and to help strengthen public schools, rather than further increase the private network. As many studies point out, it is ISEC, the socio-economic and cultural index of families, one of the main aspects of segregation, and we do not say it, the data say, data that you yourself know. The Basque School Council makes this clear in its last report and this week the platform for the Basque public school in Gasteiz has reported that 92% of pupils of foreign nationality of children and primary schools are enrolled in public schools and 8% in the concerted network, which in 19 public schools in Gasteiz exceeds 30% and in eight of them exceeds 50%. In addition, that in two private ikastolas of this city, financed from public funds, there are only two students of foreign nationality. And this is the case in Ordizia, that while the percentage of foreign students of the Urdaneta public school has risen in just three courses from 14.9 to 36.82, from having 82 students to having 222, 222, counselor, in the private ikastola the percentage of foreign students has remained at 6%. 222 pupils with special educational support needs in the public, compared to 58 in the private. A student, the foreigner, with special educational support needs, who causes a flight from the indigenous student to the private ikastola, implying that the ikastola has received applications for enrolment in excess of the number of places it has agreed to and that this motivates the request for more places. We believe that this is just one example and we are concerned that the Department of Education may be favoring the concerted network. Because your government bets and supports public school, right? Because you must know that betting on the public network involves betting on a more inclusive Basque school, which helps to facilitate social cohesion in the Basque municipalities, in this case, in the municipality of Ordizia. We hope that his Government will bet on public education in a real way and put in place urgent measures, allocating money and resources to the Basque public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u87	Make it go away. Following the resolution of changing the planning which I have before mentioned, the learning of Ordrias within the period of time and demanded the change of plan for the course of 2016, 2017, 2021, 2022. By this change, it was intended to add a 3-year-old unit to the year 2018-2010 and the next. As I've been telling you, the time to run the demands ended November 30th. Having examined all the requests and received the technical report of each delegation of the territory, the director of the course and the Plant sent a report on December 27th, to the manager of the Economic Management. January 11th, 2018. Thursday, the Plang Committee was assembled, and the temporary solution of the applications presented was issued. The time was put out for unaccepted requests. Jakintza ikastola received interim resolution, with a dissuasive response to his request for an increase in planned units and decided to submit allegations within the set deadline, such claims will be settled definitively according to the criteria of the resolution and following the analysis of the educational needs map by the planning commission. And this is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Fourteen Point: "The question is, Juana de Bengoechea Esté Espulcan Group members of the Board of Education "about students with high abilities." Mrs. De Bengoechea from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u89	You hear it, now you do. From my seat, I would like to thank the Counsellor for giving a first answer to my question about the situation of high-capacity students in Euskadi and I would take the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u91	The lady's head. Mrs. Bengoche, as it has been recorded in the government program of this legislation, is the fundamental element of the factors and possibilities of the progress of a whole education society to promote equality and to build a democratic community, a confederate and a responsibility. After all, as I have sometimes remarked, education is a challenge of people. From an integral perspective of education, we share the need to advance the quality of the Basque education system, promoting equity, social cohesion, education in values, respect for plurality, freedom of thought and belief, as well as human rights and, above all, the defence and attention of diversity, including high capacities, the subject of your question. Our commitment is clear and our commitment to inclusiveness is clear as well. Within the appeal to excellence, and at the year 2017-2019, the Board of Education encourages and encourages the projecting of these modalities. Renewing projects including the making of curriculum, education reviving projects and sharing experiences. They are projects to enrich Curriculamum, to establish active methods in the class, and, whether they have the supreme skill or not, to detect the excellent abilities or the geniuses of all the students, to develop the activities of watching and enriching, to learn in the students, and to excite the motive for personal achievements and collective achievements. Curriculum enrichment projects are carried out in three academic courses; in the first, the project focuses on teacher training on curriculum enrichment, high skills, multiple intelligences, as well as detection at the student center with diverse needs in terms of learning processes. In the second year, the project focuses on the attention to students and the development of active methodologies in the classroom, which contribute to curriculum enrichment. And the third year will focus on the consolidation of the project and the evaluation of the results, according to the indicators set out in the project. After three years of the project, the centre will be able to present its experience to the other centres through the Partekatuz Ikasi modality as a tutor centre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u93	Madam Counselor. We do not doubt, at all, that you have these plans, etc., but look, let me give you some data that I think are necessary. In Euskadi we have, in different grades, 372,822 students throughout the course. Studies say that between 2% and 5% are high-capacity students, let's stay at 2%, that means we have 7,400 high-capacity students and you plan, but you make plans for someone who is not yet detected, because detected, and correct me if I'm wrong, you'll have more up-to-date data than we do, but the latest data we've been able to get is about 400 students. Let's say we're wrong, let's say it's double, 800, let's be even more generous, let's say it's 1,000. Well, what about the other 6,400 students? You know, like me, that among high-skilled children who are not treated, between 30% and 50%, there is school failure and 70% psychological problems. So, we know all their plans, we study them, we see them. I also want to tell you one thing, that we are in 2018 and the first decree in the Basque Government on the subject is the year 98, the year 98, 20 years ago. You're only six. But 20 years ago we already had a decree to deal with the way high-capacity students fit and we have 400, detected by us, i.e. we have 400, 0.1% detected. Other Spanish communities have already detected 1.1%. So, counselor, I always tell you that I think you are an indefatigable worker, but it is already time to demand results. And we demand results. You've been a counselor for six years or so. And the results are getting worse, on the subject of high capabilities, as I say, a minimum detection. Much projects, but we fail in high capacities; we fail in PISA, where at ISEC's equality we are the worst; we fail in the PIRLS report, we fail in the report of the best universities in the world; we have a failure in selectivity greater than any other part of Spain in Spanish language and literature; we are not present among the list that has emerged from the best universities for subjects. Counselor, believe me, I don't like this, but we must now set foot on the wall. Results. We demand results. Less plans, less projects, less paper and, above all, more result, less suffering for children and less anguish for the whole of society, which every time we read some education it is to bring us almost a cake. The last one yesterday, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u95	Mrs. Bengoechea. One question; will you ever look at the good results? Because there are, there are. Because you only always present the bad results, and, like this time, in a somewhat intentional way. But in answer to your question, the Board of Education intends to continue with him on that business line. In the following acts of appeals to the year 2018-2019, the other 10 schools, five public schools, and five compact schools, are predicting their projects to enrich the curriculum. On the other hand, it is an ordinary measure of curriculumum, and the school can take this measure within the inclulive school. In fact, colleges take this measure to respond to specific needs for education of great scholars and of great surrender. One of the most relevant actions designed so far has to do with the need for close monitoring of child development. We presented at the end of the last legislature the protocol for monitoring children's development, whose first phase, called routine monitoring of development, was launched in the course 2015-2016 in the classrooms of 2 and 3 years, and later extending to classrooms of 4 and 5 years, so we also had international recognition. The objective is to detect early possible developmental changes that may generate specific educational support needs, including high capacities. For its part, and within the framework of the new strategic diversity care plan, which is being developed, there is also provision for the inclusion of a specific plan to respond to high-capacity students. And we are also working on amending the 1998 decree. A whole battery of actions that corroborate our commitment to defense and attention to diversity, addressed especially to the students of the high abilities subject of your question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interadectition, the members of the House of Elizon, Josu Estarrona, the member of the Cultural and the Chief Political Division, concerning the censorship and freedom of the Spanish State." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, good day, Mr. Zupiria. If you were to express a colour of democracy in the Spanish kingdom, what color would you prefer? Think about it. In other words, Spain and democracy, what colour can these two words be to you? Black, at least I think of black. In this country we know what it is to be attacked against freedom and protected from that obscure black of censorship, because we have often suffered this obscure Spanish democracy. We've lived dark days and nights in the Basque Country, and we've had peace in our shelter. The shelter of the courtyard was sung by Michael Labo, the poem of Bertolt Brecht, the poem of Die Nachtlager, and says: "I've been told that in New York, at the corner of Broadway and 26th Street, in the middle of the winter, a man asks people to pray every night for shelter for the naked ones. In the winter, a man every night. Red winters." Labo stole the name from Bertol Brecht's poem of erupted by the Labo. I remember the first time I went to a concert in the Red Winters, the only one, the last one, because it was their last concert. In February 25th of the year 2001, I was 19, and I was already five years old and the team had been outside the stage for five years, but they offered three concerts again and went up to the platform. Why? Well, to celebrate the victory for freedom of speech and to thank for the solidarity of many years. In Rodríguez to thank for the violation of Lieutenant Galin's cornery in the attempt, for the Red Winter had been the Spanish State after his death, because of the letters of his songs, the old band of music which he's accused of. Unfortunately, as I have said in the Basque Country, we are not strangers to political reasons, to our creators, our commons, our musicians, and in general to the censors and persecutions against the people. I remember perfectly well that Lorea, who published the report of the closing of the paper under the title of "record," probably you remembered, Mr. Zupiria. 15 years of eucalyptus and euscal culture have lately suffered the most violent attacks. From that dark dark day. It may be remembered that the newspaper was closed under the same side in the Spanish Government under the command of P.P.'s government, and I will remember the explanations given by the Minister Acebes: "Sela de una operación en defensa y protección de los derechos y de las Liberades de los vascos." Tela. And in round years, in July 20 years this year, they've been doing it and do it since the radio closed. It is evident that the Spanish Government has serious problems with the right of information from the Basques. We have examples of the Black Sheep magazine, or Broken Gates, of the Young Network, and also of the media that have been prosecuted for insults against the Crown: The call is Gara or Punto y Hora. So it's a long list. Censorship is not just a part of a country that has fallen into a de facto state of emergency, in which, in order to underpin an increasingly less democratic regime, everything, absolutely everything, is worth it. One of the greatest dangers that enter censorship, and Mercedes Sosa said that something that mattered to him to know of these black lists of dictatorships, is that the cultural development of an entire people is stopped. And in the Kingdom of Spain, you will agree with me, Mr. Zupiria, at this stage you will not grow even a breeze of creativity, as are the people who believe, be writers, be actors, puppeteers or anyone who wants to express themselves in 280 characters. At this stage, the list of censored creations covered by laws gags and 155s will far exceed that of cinematographic or editorial novelties. And speaking of books, Nacho Carretero, Fariña, a book kidnapped by court order; by the way, a very clear example of Streisand effect, to frame. And since we're talking about frames, let's talk about frames. Santiago Serra: Political prisoners in contemporary Spain, a work you couldn't contemplate last Friday at ARCO. Your crime? Dare to show the pixelated faces of 24 political prisoners, including a wide presence of Basque faces: Jokin, Oihan, Jadur... –agur bero bat hemendik nire ikasle ohiai eta zuen senitartekoei–; 473 days in prison for a bar fight; Alfredo Remírez, jail for wearing a cardboard doll; or our secretary general, Arnaldo Otegi, whose prison leave yesterday was completed two years and who, in addition to being an unjust sentence, suffered political censorship of being elected to be in this House. And since we talk about cameras, let's talk about cinema, because we can't forget Basque actresses like Itziar Ituño or Miren Gaztañaga, who have suffered harassment and even the boycott for expressing themselves freely or for supporting human rights, the same thing that happened a few years before to actor Gotzon Sánchez. Do you know, Mr. Counsellor, how many sanctions were imposed in 2016 – the latest data collected – on cases related to freedom of assembly and expression? Neither one, nor 10, nor 100, 32,000, 32,300 sanctions in 2016 for cases related to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. And the report published by Amnesty International states that since 2011 114 people have been sentenced in the Spanish State for the rise of terrorism. Do you all know how many convictions before the cessation of ETA's armed activity? Prior to that date, there was only one conviction for the rise of terrorism in this regard. One conviction. Valtonyc, Pablo Hasel, Caesar Strawberry... an endless group like S.A., Soziedad Alkoholika, to quote a band here from Gasteiz, continue to suffer censorship and prohibition of their concerts. All of them, like Los Chikos del Maíz, those who sing, by the way, "terrorism is Manuel Fraga murdering workers in Vitoria", about the sad events of March 3 of which tomorrow is the anniversary. To all of them we say, "Keep composing, keep acting, keep stirring, keep disturbing, keep expressing." Just as it is expressed by freedom, expressed in the universal proclamation of human rights. But, it is plain, in Spain, like most of the fundamental rights, there is no guarantee. The Constitution also talks about 155. In the shadow of the article everything can be torn, as young Jule's Ibarroulah knows. And it is peculiarly denounced, Mr. Chief, to the thread of the Catalan process, the campaign against public media, accused of doctrine. Especially the appeal and the gravity, the attempts made to silence the referendum of October 1, last last year, especially the denouncer and the gravity. However, as I have said, coming from Spain worries us, but we are not surprised by such dark events. But what happened this week in our public radio club, that really surprised us. That's right. It has surprised us, and we are concerned, and much more, that this very week EITB has censored the broadcast of a radio advertising wedge on the book Disarmament. The Basque way, with the argument that it contains some expressions that denote an obvious political content. Therefore, on the one hand, with that assertion, the EITB leadership is admitting that we are facing political censorship, and that is very serious in our view. To this end, it is covered by the advertising regulation, which, if we consult it, does not at all endorse that decision. It's a mistake. A serious mistake. Beltza. Beltz iluna, akatsa. But the worst of all is that this situation has been reached and I would like to know, Mr Councilman, what opinion you deserve as a cultural adviser and as the highest political leader of EITB, since these kinds of decisions hurt us as a society, I would like to know what your opinion is on this issue, and the decision that the leadership has taken with the censorship of this radio wedge. They hurt us as a society, counselor. Mine. The Egyptian mine said to you bezala, they would be bezala, zensura herri batan kultura garatzeko oztopo handia da. And this has an additional danger, because, seeing threats, a tendency to censor oneself, not only to share freedom of expression, to protest and to be critical. I know you will be critical of the Spanish State. I don't doubt that you denounced him at ARCO, but if we really want to remove the ghost of censorship from our country, and in this case the EITB, which belongs to everyone, is self-critic, and, please, to be active, to disappear as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zingia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u99	Mr. President, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Mr. Estarrona. I'd rather talk to you about the color of the Basque Country. I think, fortunately, that if I were to describe the colour of our country in comparison of the black colors which may be around me, I should like to use the soft grey. Gray, neither black nor white, and faint, as mist, without concealing all things, and without extinguishing all colours, because it expresses life and painting. I think that this figure of mist and mist, which Labo and Artz express in their canoes, is very pretty, and at least I take it for myself to express the colour I would like. And I think you do well, remembering the cases of persecution in the Basque Country, I think it's good to remember things and to make memories, and I want to do my little contribution to that reflection you've made. I'll start with a quote you made, right? One of the cases of censorship you're talking about last week is what happened at the ARCO. The President of the International fair of the World-Governor decided to remove the political prisoners from a work which is now called in Spain. And after that, the ultimate polemic has arisen. This art of lawsuits, which was intended to make political criticism, and the President of the market, probably in a way which did not belong to him, made a political decision, and censored the work. Right in front of this thing, I think it's got a clear attitude. We believe that the ability of the people is not to be despised, and we think, that it is a citizen, a work of art which ought to decide and think, and not of authority or ruler. We see, therefore, the work mentioned, as a political decision, as an act of censorship, and we are against it, and we have publicly stated it. We believe that a middle-aged citizen, who goes to see a play at a market-place, a play, a puppet, or a street theater, or buys a book, expresses a clear interest in all these decisions, in order to exercise a culture. And his decision is to approve or criticize what he saw. We think that this citizen has his own and complete criterion, to understand reality and understand reality in its own proper point of view, to examine the cultural or artistic conception of this reality, to enjoy it, to despise it, and to regard it as good or bad. This middle-aged citizen needs no one in his name, to reject or pawn a book, to see how a play is forbidden, or how a prison is sentenced to another. We believe that many resolutions taken about ARCO, or other actors, writers, journals, and artists, have been decided contrary to the freedom of the creators; and we think, too, that they have been decided contrary to the democratic liberty of the people in freedom, of the world, and of its opinion in life. And, sadly, as you have said, this question of censorship is not new to us, and less so between us. And I too want to think this way of thinking and this waste of memory. For there is no other word, but the censor is not the only word, when we remember many events that have been among us. I can't forget, for instance, the closures of the newspapers or of the diarys or of the radios. We have remembered them these days for different reasons. They shut themselves up in a decided manner, by political reasons, denying the liberty of many of the people. And there are also two tapes of extension, three tapes, as if nothing had happened. And while we're talking about censorship, we forget, for example, the murder of Santiago Oleaga, the finance director of the El Derio Vasco newspaper, or of the author of José Luis López Lacalle. These were terrible acts of censorship, which had been designed to obliterate freedom by force, by violence to shut their mouths once and for all. I would say the same of the explosive letters received by certain eucalyptic and Spanish journalists against El Correus and EIB. And what can I say about attacks from my friend's bookstore? I don't want to forget, either, the attacks made against some art of the artist Agustbarrola or Donostia 2016, because inside the program of the Cultura Cultura there were some paintings committed by prisoners. I think there's a long chain of censorship between us, unfortunately. And many restrictions are as disturbing as they are about freedom of expression, owing to the severity of the law against terrorism, by the increasing and narrow changes made in the penal code, or by the decisions made about what is called the Law of Mozal. It seems to be a lie, but more people are punished than violence was in force under the accusation of the apology of terrorism in Spain at this moment. It's not the usual best times. And instead of going forward, we're taking steps back and that's troubling. So I'd like to make it clear if you'd like to have my place on this subject. We politicians shouldn't impose any further boundaries on freedom of speech and the management of public affairs, but should be careful to respect our decisions and to respect the level of public intelligence. And I think sometimes we don't. And by taking a step on this road, I see also important and necessary to speak of the name of things. We'd all be fine if we all called things by their own name. He wrote on his day in the Barnabas, having gathered the wisdom of our people, they say, all that is called by name. Let us therefore use the names and names of things immediately, and call them things; The torture is torture, the prohibition is called prohibition, violence and censorship. Therefore, by force, we ought to call a group of those who have caused terror and pain, and the violence which he has used, his name; and we ought not to deceive any one in this attempt. We shouldn't call the team who's making so much suffering, we should call him a military organization. We should call him his name. However, you have the freedom to come and call me whatever you like. Nobody denied you that freedom. And one day they're going to TV, and you'll use the term you want, and you'll measure the effects of your use, and you and your conscience decide whether it's properly used or not. That's one thing. And the other thing is that by paying money and advertising you want to show a certain thought in a public media. Then, I think, calling things by their own name is a good exercise we should all do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u101	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Chief physician, we were coming here today from the state of Spain and to accuse you of these census attitudes, to share them. But it's true that you've come here with all your freedom and some other wildlings that have been in this town because of the conflict, I think it's also received in a little bit like that and that's been broadcasting on the Euskal radio. I think that's what I think, and there's nothing political about you to confess. And I'm not going to accuse you of anything in that sense, not at all. But what concerns us today is, as I have said, the state chief physician, the state of Spain, that black attitude, that influence which may have and may have the authority, the institutions, and the public institutions of our country. It is true, I agree with you, that I would probably paint our country with another colour, in this study at first made, but it is true that we are concerned with the obscure black that comes from Spain to see whether our greys will be too much obscured, and will at last colour our country with black. This, as I have said, affects our country, our society, and consequently also you and me, and I think we can agree with that. And that's why we can't accept it and keep it quiet in front of the censor. And this week, to mention another case, and the effect on our institutions, and in Spain, that censor of the southern winds, has been cut off at the high house a few yards from here, the exhibition of the young Alsatsu, which has been shown in many other countries. And besides, we've asked for explanations and all these explanations about institutions in the streets, and that is when we say that those censor winds in the Spanish State are already affecting this country. Eta bueltatuko naiz EITBen zentsuratutako kuña radiophoniko horretara, because the Directorate what it has done is recommend deleting the following sentence, and as you have said well, things must be called by their name. And I would like to know in the phrase "the disarmament of a military organization with the help of civil society", one, a military organization, is it true or is it a lie that ETA was a military organization? Then some will say it was revolutionary, others will say it was terrorist. But is it a lie that ETA was a military organization? Where is there a political content there? Is it a lie that disarmament took place with civil society? With the help of civil society? Is that a lie, Mr. Zupiria? And three, "against more immobile positions," either of you put in Google right now "Urkullu, immobileism" to see what you're referring to, Mr. Urkullu. Is it a lie that there have been immovable positions to carry out and carry out such disarmament? Therefore, we should be fooled, please, no, and you, as a Culture Advisor and as the highest political head of EITB, should ask the Directorate to rectify and rectify as soon as possible, because when this type of situation gets longer, the more damage they do to us as a society. Censorship is the tool of those who need to hide realities from themselves and from others. His fear is only his inability to cope with what is real, and he cannot express any anger against it, I assure you, but sadness and much concern. And it really caused us a lot of anxiety, and we believe it was a mistake to confess on your part, but I doubt that you will confess your first words as a mistake, and you should ask the management to testify that it would be a positive gesture, and that our team would appreciate it well, especially in the way we've just begun the Eukdi radio, in which we've begun the building, in front of the protest of the reforms that we've had before us, and in the way we're buildinging together and the construction that we're building. That's not acceptable, Mr. Zupiria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u102	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u103	Mr. Estarrona. It's in your freedom to call it what you want, I wouldn't call it a military institution, but you see it, it's your freedom and it's your decision. Now, I think, EIB does well not allow me to introduce that political idea in exchange for money, like a ship, I'm telling you, in his programming, you asked me, and I give you an answer. Anyway, I'm not responsible for EIB, I'm Chief of Culture. In some of his functions, especially in matters related to his finance, he is attached to our department, but EITB has its organs. In fine, it is decided here, that he has, and here is a committee and another for his successor, and your team has a delegation there. I don't. And I don't understand your behavior, Mr. Estarrona. I don't understand. What's wrong with EIB's decisions? You don't think EIB's advice is appropriate to the management of publicity? Doesn't EIB's direction seem good to you to propose to save the deck radio? Or is it he who proposes it to you is wrong? You don't think it's right for people who made that decision? You want normal people too, EIBn, like Albiole in Catalan radio studio, to take these decisions? I remind you that there was some criteria taken for advertising in EIB on his day, and they're not arbitrary and they don't belong to last night. In 2012, EIB's Administration Council accepted them, after a long experience of years, they were written, and have since been used, and those professionals you see inappropriate, but the EIB Administration Council. Why don't you plan where it should be, in the Administration Council, in the organ where your political team represents, the change of these advertising management criteria? You are, Mr. Estarra, but I am not to give an opinion on many decisions EIB has made. ETB has its organs, your team is represented there, and you must strike there and place them there. However, since you ask my opinion, I think there is no censorship in the determination of EIB, and, as I said before, I think we ought to call things by their own name, because we would take a great step in persuasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 16th point in the theme list: "The Internetization, Edurne García Troublembe, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, made for Cultura and the head of the political Division of Language, concerning the violence of the sport." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u105	Mila esker, Madam President. Good morning to all the women parliamentarians, good morning, Mr. Zupiria. Violence and incidents in sports shows are a reality in Euskadi, especially in football fields. We've been looking at how insults, fights, aggressions, throwing objects and even flares – always and when clubs allow it – happen in the context of the holding of men's football matches of high competition in our community. In 2016, the Department of Security opened 82 cases for violations under the 2007 Anti-Violence in Sport Act, 80 to spectators and two more to organizing entities. The figures show that the overwhelming majority of the problems were concentrated on football, the matches of which accounted for 96% of the incidence, 79 cases, for only three basketball players and none of the other disciplines. By territory, the bulk of the sanctions occurred in Bizkaia, 46, although in Alava there was a significant proportion, 24, double that in Gipuzkoa, which were 12. In February of the same year, in 2016, we all remember the fight that took place before a European League match between groups of fans of the Athletic Club of Bilbao and the Olympique of Marseille. The images of the altercations on the streets of Bilbao, which left seven detainees and eight injured, are not exactly an example of the values, attitudes and behaviors that we must develop and promote from sport. We are concerned, because since 2016, these types of hate and violence, which are rampant after the celebration of a sporting event, are increasing exponentially. In the last year alone, from February 2017 to February 2018, there have been several occasions in which there have been major incidents related to professional football matches in Euskadi. In February 2017 ultras of the Alavés and Barcelona faced a campaign battle in Vitoria, and that same month the surroundings of San Mamés were the scene of incidents between fans of Athletic and APOEL Nicosia. In April 2017 an ultra of Betis attacked a neighbor of Bilbao in the middle of the street; in October of the same year there was a campal battle in Vitoria between ultras of the Alavés and the Racing of Santander, which they did not even face in the field of play, and which ended with several wounded, one of which had to be admitted to the ICU. And we could continue to cite different altercations and violent behaviors that have taken place within the environment of sports shows at some point in our autonomous community over the past two years. Teams with ultra amateurs, violent acts have left very bad memories and the Athletic has witnessed many of these cases of violence. In almost all the participations of the red team in the European competition of recent years are remembered episodes of incidents with ultra hobbies. The most recent one took place a week ago with the excuse of the UEFA party that faced the Athletic in front of the Spartak of Moscow and that has had a terrible consequence with the death of Inocencio Alonso, a 51-year-old agent from Ermua, who participated in the special operation for the umpteenth incidents in Bilbao and linked to football, especially to the men's European competition parties. Violent incidents that began earlier in Vitoria and that had a climate of confrontation, encouraged by social networks and on different internet platforms, that projected those more than predictable violent events. The Russian and Basque ultras completely out of control gave free rein to the violence, ripped out the cobblestones and launched flares and rockets. In the light of these events, the Security Adviser, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, called for a thorough reflection on violence in sport. Not only she, but different actors, club presidents involved in the episodes of violence or the Football Federation itself have indicated that measures must be tightened and the problem of violence in sport must be addressed from the awareness and awareness of all people who practice or enjoy football in this case, and, of course, the involvement and coordination of institutions and sports entities is essential. And from Elkarrekin We can understand that this reflection has to be carried out also from the Directorate of Physical Activity and Sport to which belongs the department to which you head, Mr. Zupiria, beyond the necessary interventions of the Ertzaintza, the prevention of these kinds of phenomena is fundamental. We have defended in other interventions the value of sports practice and physical activity as a source of health, integration, cooperation and overcoming, which facilitates social cohesion and serves as a tool for combating inequality, violence, exclusion or misunderstood rivalry. For this it is essential to adopt strategies to prevent radicalization and to exclude all kinds of violence around sport, and more within professional sport, since in the society in which we live what happens before, during and after football matches, which is mass sport par excellence, is a reference and example in the eyes of citizens. Whose responsibility is it? What to do with the ultras? How to control the presence of radicals in football matches? What measures should be taken? These are some of the questions that Basque society is asking as a witness to repeated episodes of violence that are taking place in the sports arena and that are our responsibility and affect all of us in one way or another. We are concerned about the increase in the number of events in Euskadi where sport is only an excuse and violence becomes the real protagonist. We would like to know, Mr Zupiria, in view of these facts, what action the Basque Government intends to take to prevent violence linked to sport, specifically with professional football. We would also like to know what role the Basque Committee against Violence in Sport, Kirolalde, a body created in 2005 by the Basque Government, regulated by Decree 94/2004 of 25 May, began its work with the appointment of its first components and with its first meeting on 19 October 2005. It is a committee formed, according to the website of his department, by persons and entities of the Basque sport, from the Basque Government and the deputies, including federations, sports clubs, representatives of the arbitral tribunal, representatives of the university, sportsmen, members of the Ertzaintza, etc. The main objectives of this committee are to provide information on the state of violence in Basque sport, to promote good sports practice, to prevent violent attitudes and behaviours and to support education in values linked to sports practice. It clearly seems to be an ideal tool, since it brings together all the actors involved in the fight against the eradication of violence in sport, in a space of coordination and dialogue whose main function is to promote and carry out preventive actions in the face of violent attitudes and behaviour that occur in the field of sport in the Basque Country. However, if a visit to the website proves that in 2011 the then Councillor of Culture – María Blanca Urgell – introduced a variation in article 4 of Decree 94/2004 which referred to the appointment and composition of the committee as regards the persons who formed it, but not as regards the institutions that represented it. And since then, we have found no reference in seven years to the people who make up this organ. We would like to know what the current composition of Kirolalde is, both in terms of the number of members and public and private entities and groups represented in it. On the other hand, it is difficult to access the minutes of the last meeting held by this committee and we would like you to clarify, Mr Zupiria, when was the last time there was a meeting of the Basque Committee against Violence in Sport and what were the issues addressed at that meeting. Another of Kirolalde's objectives is to conduct studies and provide up-to-date data that will allow us to obtain a picture of the reality surrounding violence in sport in our territory. Despite this, the latest study, posted on the website of the Basque Council against Violence in Sport, on sports habits and violence in the practice of sport, dates back to 2010. Has this been the last study Kirolalde has produced? We'd like to know. Do you think the results in the variables and indicators would not change if a survey were carried out and a report was prepared right now with all the events and episodes of violence that have occurred lately? In the same 2010 study, it can be seen that the vast majority of Basque society, 67 %, considered this type of behavior to be very serious eight years ago, believing that the causes were mainly the lack of education, fanaticism and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u106	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u107	It is here, in preventive tasks, where we have so much to do. Awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns, school programmes and training for different professionals are fundamental tools in the eradication of violence, however, the latest campaign on the website of the Basque Council against Sport Violence dates back to 2012. Has Kirolalde launched any awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaign since 2012? And if so, we would like to know what area it has focused on and the actions and programmes that have been carried out, as well as the results and impact they have had. For all this, we would like to know whether you, Mr. Zupiria, and the Directorate of Physical Activity and Sport consider that we are faced with a serious problem with regard to violence in sport and what measures, strategies, campaigns and actions you have carried out in the last eight years to ensure that violence is not the news in the context of the celebration of sporting events in Euskadi and more specifically in high-level men's football. And what is more important to us is what measures, strategies, campaigns and actions are planned to promote in the short, medium and long term with regard to the prevention of violence in the sports activities of our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u109	President Andrea, Edurne García Andrea. I would like to begin my intervention by giving my condolences to the family of the inocencio Alonso ERTZAINE, who died in the context of the serious disturbances that violent groups caused on February 22nd in Bilbao. And I would also like to add my condemnation to that of all those voices that have spoken against the violent incidents that we unfortunately saw in the vicinity of San Mamés. I believe, and we believe in the department, that these violent behaviors are very far from what sports activity is, and we believe rather that they fall within the area of safety. As we could see, for some, the party between Athletic and Spartak was nothing but an excuse to organize a fascist confrontation between alleged amateurs and to commit violent acts that had nothing to do with sport. In response specifically to your question, first of all, I must inform you that the Basque Government is working on a socio-educational programme to prevent violent radicalisation in all its manifestations, which also includes violent radicalisation linked to fanatical behaviors around the football world. This programme is a consequence of the work of prevention in the face of different violent expressions that we are developing as a Government, within a more global and general reflection, to prevent international terrorism of religious pretext. It will be prepared in a few months, and is being led by the Secretary-General for Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation. The program starts from the thesis that violent radicalization, in its different expressions, has in its casuistic origins of universal origin. And it has, in its consequences, effects on personal and individual consciousness, especially in early ages. Its treatment must therefore also be of a cross-cutting nature and will require the collaboration of different social and educational actors, also logically as far as they are concerned, from those of football clubs. Secondly, this same week, the physical activity and sports directorates of our department and that of the game and shows of the Department of Security have gathered to analyze, from the field of sport and shows, what happened around last week's events. The Security Adviser will later give some details of the steps that have been taken to address this issue. What do we have in our hands? The Basque Government had already drawn up a cooperation protocol on combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport a few years earlier. And this protocol, as you have said, was signed up with sports clubs and anonymous societies. It was done from the perspective that sport must have a function of promoting values such as respect, tolerance, sports, non-discrimination of people; that is, values that clash frontally with the violent episodes that occurred last week. By virtue of these principles and values that are to be fostered, and conscious of the relevance that sport has in our society, Government, clubs and anonymous societies, we assume the need to coordinate all efforts, material and personal means, to ensure the security of the parties within the facilities where they are developed. This protocol is applicable in all competitions held in the Basque Autonomous Community within the scope of Law 19/2007 of 11 July Against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport. It applies to all sports meetings involving teams of the following categories: First Division, Second Division A, Second Division B, as well as to all sports meetings organized or authorized by any federation of state, autonomous or territorial scope, which the Department of Security considers to require for reasons of prevention of citizen security. The Basque Government, from the Department of Safety and Security, is responsible for planning, directing, organizing, coordinating and controlling the security services on the occasion of the above-mentioned public events. And it is that department that also designates a person responsible for the coordination of security for each of the events. The criterion of this person will prevail in the resolution of violent incidents that may occur, and for this it is always with the collaboration of the responsible and the personnel dependent on the organization of each competition. In addition, a decalogue of good practice has been developed alongside this protocol that I have commented on. It's called the Decalogue of Good Practice in Sport, and I'm going to read you the 10 commandments of this decalogue. "First, respect is the basis of sport. Respect the visiting team, the amateurs and followers of it, as you do with those who follow your team. "Second, it also respects arbitral decisions. "Third, remember that tolerance stops violence. "Four, you're in a sports venue with more people, be aware that your behavior can influence other people. "Finto, you are the image of your team, remember. "Sixth, remember that regulation forces you to occupy and stay in your locality; if you move unnecessarily, you can annoy the rest of amateurs and amateurs. "Seventh, security personnel are to protect all people, also you; keep it in mind and respect it. "Octave, he abides by the rules of play inside and outside the field of play. "Novene, if you want to see clean play in the field, do the same; play clean play in the stands. "And tenth, support your team and enjoy the show." These are the values that this decalogue seeks to promote. In addition, I should point out that advertising campaigns have been promoted with messages against violent, racist, xenophobic and intolerant or non-regulatory behaviour in sport. Posters and diptychs have been placed with the decalogue of good behaviors in sport for placement and distribution in access to sports venues and to as many places as deemed relevant. By adding some more action, in the last final of the Cup in which a Basque team intervened – the Alavés – there were advertising spots in favor of tolerance and against violence, in order to raise awareness of both hobbies. On the other hand, approximately 15 days ago, an awareness-raising day was organized under the title "Violence in sport and sports shows", with two round tables. The first was entitled "Violent attitudes and behaviors around the practice of sport and sports shows". The second round table was entitled "Acting and responding to violence around practice and sports shows". This is therefore an issue on which there is no leniency. Another thing is whether or not it is correct in the specific approaches, and whether or not there is the ability to reach the target audience that, for example, determined the facts of last week. In any case, intensive and preventive work will continue. And I believe that, with the experience of these years, we can affirm that the work bears fruit. When Basque hobbies have massively moved to other stadiums – and I'm talking about the displacement of tens of thousands of people – the behavior of Basque hobbies has always been exemplary. Basque hobbies have even been congratulated by the host parties. However – and we were able to see it last week – it is not easy to prevent a violent minority, often not even interested in sport, and we believe it moves for reasons of another character, from trying to become a protagonist in exceptional situations. However, we will continue to work on prevention so that the behaviors around sports appointments are linked to the values of sport, because an overwhelming majority of Basque society strongly rejects the kind of behaviors we have cited. Fewer and fewer try to justify or relativize such behaviours, although unfortunately there are still some. Therefore, we will continue to work in line with their prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u111	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Mr. Zupiria, do you think that responsible and proper management is being carried out? Perhaps in my first speech I have not been clear enough. Spartak of Moscow, Bilbao, February 2018, one dead; Zenit of Saint Petersburg, Donostia, December 2017; Racing of Santander, Gasteiz, October 2017; APOEL of Nicosia, Bilbao, February 2017; Football Club Barcelona, Donostia, April 2016; Olympique of Marseille, Bilbao, February 2016; Real Betis, Gasteiz, April 2005; Real Zaragoza, Gasteiz, March 2014; Real Madrid, Donostia, August 2013; friend of Euskadi-Bolivia, December 2012; Schalke 04, Bilbao, April 2012, one dead. And you have gathered this week, after seven years; seven years and one dead. I believe that the work that the Department had to do cannot be summed up in we have a program, in reading the 10 points of the decalogue that you, the decalogue of good practices that you have spread in posters and diptics, and you have had to wait for an ertzaine to die; those incidents have occurred, four of them, when you were the most responsible. I began my previous speech by affirming and contrasting, with data, that violence and incidents in sports shows are a reality in Euskadi, especially in football fields; unfortunately, the unfortunate events of the last few days support it. And I was asking you throughout it if you considered that we were facing a serious problem with regard to violence in sport, and you have responded in an affirmative way. But on the website of the Basque Council against Violence in Sport, which I again specify, it has not met for seven years, I quote literally, it says: "Even if we do not encounter a problem that can be considered serious". What are we left with, Mr. Zupiria? Is there or is there not a problem with violence in Basque sport? For us, yes, and it is time to address it, not with a program that we will already do, but with what we should have done. What analysis has been made of the situation and the role played by the various players involved in sport? Who co-ordinates and controls what sports clubs, federations, the arbitration group or the different rocks, associations that represent fans for collaborating in the fight against violence in sport? Control measures already in place have been discussed since the Basque Government this week. According to Mrs Heredia herself, a series of agreements were signed throughout 2016 with the Basque elite clubs, both football and basketball, to collaborate in the prevention of violence in sport. The agreement has also been extended to several autonomous federations. Could you give us more details of the specific measures and actions that these conventions have? And why, if there is a Basque Committee against Violence in Sport, where all the actors, including the elite Basque clubs and federations that sign parallel and doubling spaces in these conventions, participate, what is the situation of other actors in the sector? Is the relationship with the collectives representing fans and fans fluid? Because if we have an organ that we do not use, if we have an organ that does not meet, I understand that they are not fluid and we have to create a series of conventions when events surpass us. Isn't Kirolalde an effective tool for coordinating and developing policies to prevent violent behaviours and attitudes in the course of sports events and shows? I would like to know what activity the Basque Committee against Violence in Sport has carried out that has facilitated an internal and external diagnosis of the situation of violence in sport. There are 2010 studies, there are 2012 campaigns, the last annual memory is 2012, we don't understand how you're now talking about a program you're going to develop. Please tell us, apart from that campaign in 2010, what campaigns have been carried out on the promotion, development and formation of values in federal sport or in schools, where so much impact has on the training of young people in sport. Finally, Mr Zupiria, I just want to say that you have an opportunity to promote concrete measures and actions that are useful and effective in preventing and eradicating violence in sport. Get to work and make use of the tools, which have the active and real participation of all the agents, so that we get to attend a men's football match or any other sporting event is a constructive, healthy, enriching and safe experience, where sport, overcoming, integration, cooperation and play itself are the real protagonists, and violence and its different manifestations are completely excluded. What we cannot do now is begin to do the work that has not been done in the last seven years, because then we find ourselves in the situation we are in. Get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u113	Mrs. Garcia. I believe that the events that took place last week in Bilbao have nothing to do with what happens every weekend, for nine months a year, in the hundreds of football stadiums that exist in our autonomous community. Thousands of games are played every weekend, and I think the values that are transmitted in those games have nothing to do with what we saw last week. I don't think we're used to seeing events like the ones we saw last week outside the stadium of San Mamés. I mean, I don't think that reflects the reality of sport in our autonomous community. And you know that like I do. Now, if we want to take this trip to mix it all up, well, we can do it, but that's not the case. That is, years ago, years ago, that in this community, through the Basque Government, of the outlaws, of the municipalities, of the federations at all levels, educational programs are promoted in the field of sport. Also those that exist, Mrs García, because I insist again, I believe that these events do not reflect what sports life is like in this country, and you do not want to show us otherwise, because that is not the case, it is not the case. No, no, I know how to do that, too. I don't think that's the reality. What will we have to do with all the institutions and all the actors in this country and elsewhere, but as far as we are concerned, in this country, to know what elements are moving around events like last week? Of course, they go beyond security, they have to do with training, they have to do with education. Yeah, and I think it's done and it's going to have to go on. But I think we should also have the capacity to separate concepts and events, because by mixing everything I think we are not going to solve anything. Because, unfortunately, in our society, accustomed to many expressions of violence, there are attitudes and ways of acting that do not fit in with what must be the coexistence and behaviour of a democratic and civilized society, but it happens and it will not be because things have not been done. But we must continue to work, and we must continue to identify well what policies must be promoted and promoted from all the forums, from the family, from the football clubs, from the school, from the federations, from the first and second clubs, from the institutions, from all the forums, because it is something that affects us all and that we will all have to develop. And without us making any abandonment of our responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group, made for Cultura and the head of the political department of Language, to avoid the violence of sports." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u115	Good morning, thank you, President, Councillors, Councillors, Ladies and Gentlemen of Parliament. Well, indeed, let's focus, let's keep talking about the same thing, let's try to give it an approach, indeed, by giving content to that Basque Committee against Violence in Sport, what it can do, what it will do, what it is planned to do or what it has done, because we are talking about an issue that is a culture of coexistence, apart from being integrated into sport and it is not an easy matter, it is already proving that it is not an easy matter. The Councillor has tried to say, in fact, normality and it is clear that the alaves, vizcains and gipuzcoans who follow their teams and sportsmen are exemplary in their immensity. Which is that we have a problem. We have a problem that makes people hide behind a shirt with political ideas, radicals, ultras, non-living and that's a problem. And since it is a problem, that not only from here, that exists elsewhere, because we have to address it and we have identified it, unfortunately we have identified it again last week. We have a framework, the Law of 98 on Sport speaks of violence, it speaks of instruments to fight violence in sports competitions. It is a law that speaks, the Law of Sport speaks of repression of violence within the sport, uses the strong words of the Basque Law of Sport in relation to what to do with the violent around the sport, around the sport. What to do? Repressing them, that's what the Law of 98 says, so that we have to focus, that issue we have to focus as an element – I say again – of values and coexistence. Where the expression was put the other day, surely, it would be in many young people, in many boys and girls, and people who follow the sport and who follow the Athletic, and they saw an example of what cannot be. Well, that's what needs to be cut. That is why I believe that, using the Basque Committee against Violence in Sport, progress can be made. I hope you will explain to us a little, because you talk about the issues, the recommendations you can give to the clubs, the dossiers even to spectators you can launch, so in that sense we understand you have work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u117	President andrea. I'm not going to argue with you, Mr. Barrio, I'm going to talk about what the law is talking about and I'm going to talk about what we do. The functions of the Basque Committee against Violence in Sport, set out in article 3 of Decree 9/2004, are primarily preventive and awareness-raising. I would highlight the following: One, conduct and approve reports and studies on the causes and effects of violence in sport and promote concrete actions. Two, develop recommendations to clubs, groups, sports federations and other entities or persons organizing sports competitions and holders of sports facilities. Three, report on those draft provisions on sports competitions, sports discipline and sports facilities. And four, promote collaboration with institutions or bodies of a public or private nature that pursue similar purposes, especially with the Basque Council for Public Shows and Recreational Activities. In carrying out these functions, the Committee's activities have so far focused mainly on preventive work, since the Department of Safety and Security has the responsibility to punish large sporting events. The incidents in Bilbao last Thursday, 22 February, are part of the violations provided for by the Act of July 2007 against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport. This same week, and not for the first time as Mrs. García had to misunderstand me, the addresses of Physical Activity and Sport and Game and Shows have been reassembled. As we have commented, it is the latter who is responsible for the punishment of offences resulting from violent acts. And I'm going to talk about sanctioning files, initiated, initiated, related to football events in 2016 and 2017. There were a total of 193 sanctioning cases. The most frequent causes behind these cases were insults and threats on 23 occasions; assaults and assaults on other people on 72 occasions; participation in fighting and public disorder, 42 cases. With regard to the total amount of sanctions imposed, these are between EUR 150 and EUR 3,500, and prohibitions have also been imposed on access to sports facilities ranging from 1 to 12 months in a number of cases. In this same line the Physical Activity and Sport addresses of the Department of Culture and Gambling and Shows of the Department of Security, we have agreed to carry out new communication campaigns that are added to those that have been carried out so far. We will also organize a new day of awareness – which is not the first – aimed at the football environment at the beginning of the next league season. We hope that these altercations will be the last and that the result of the collaboration of all the elements involved will be taken letters to prevent the explosion of violent acts in or around sporting events and events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u119	Thank you, President. Yes, thanks, counselor, the committee does have a job, has a lot of work to do and, indeed, in seeking to limit these expressions of intolerance to zero. We want to bring reflection to the Basque Parliament, we have also presented an initiative that wants us to talk in this Parliament, to talk about sport in that branch that was the last expression and how to neutralize it, and that these events do not happen again or happen as little as possible. We have made a great deal of progress in the field of sport, we are not allowed to drink, we are not allowed to smoke, we have made measures, we have made a great deal of progress and we are doing so now in the Basque Parliament also in relation to doping, with clean play. For here we have a subject where you, Mr. Counsellor, mainly because it is a subject of security in part, but fundamentally it is a subject of culture, of sports culture, we have to move forward. Of course, the extensible batons of ultranationalists with the Athletic T-shirt and the American fists that has to disappear, that still violent culture that have some groups linked to the left abertzale has to disappear, linked to the sport also hidden behind the Athletic T-shirt. Please leave me. Something's failing. Something's wrong here. Something fails and you as a Culture Advisor have to neutralize, because the expression is the radicality of this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u120	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupie won't speak. We shall then pass on to the nineteenth point on the subject-list; "Interpology, Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Pogula, made to the Chief of Security, the agent of the 22nd of February 2018." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. As has been said here, last Thursday was played in the stadium of San Mamés, in Bilbao, the match between Athletic and Spartak Moscow, a game in which the only thing that should have remained is the sporting result, but in which it was the least. An ertzaine, Inocencio Alonso, dead. And from here my own solidarity and my group's solidarity with your family. As I say, a dead ertzaina, nine ertzainas injured – four of them with a low job – more injured outside the Ertzaintza, nine detainees, thousands of fans and neighbors impacted by the clashes and millions of citizens once again seeing the image of Bilbao linked to violence. And go from here our absolute rejection that violence and sport can go together. The result of the party, absolutely tragic: the death, as I say, of an agent of the Ertzaintza, of a member of the Mobile Brigade. He died in the middle of a campal battle between the savages – because they cannot be called amateurs – among the radical savages of both teams. Of both, but especially of the radicals of North Herri. Because, counselor, you said the next morning: "We focused on the Russians and should have put it in the ultras of the two puffs." Can you tell us at this point that we must look at the radicals of Athletic, the radicals of North Herri? Don't we know what we have at home? You who debuted in the position at a party in Anoeta in 2012, in which the radicals camped wide, in which a misfortune could occur, in which the agents were cornered, where 17 agents were injured – because they were also prevented by image from wearing helmets and riot shields – in which the radicals threw flares and all kinds of objects to the public. You mean to tell me, at this point, that you don't have any research, that you don't have any data on the radical fans here? Mr. Aitor Esteban tweeted: "UEFA, how can you allow teams with these hobbies to play in your competitions?" And what do we do with the fans of North Herri? In football we also want to give that image of happy archadia that is Euskadi, where nothing ever happens, where radical and violent fans are less because they are our radical and violent? Because the violent fans of Athletic have led incidents on many, many occasions. Some have told you here, they have starred with followers of the Olympique de Marseille, the APOEL or the Russian Zenit. A week ago, police sources assured that it was the radical followers of the Athletic who began throwing flares and rockets at Russian fans who had reached the esplanade of the St. Mamés stadium escorted by the Ertzaintza. We all know for a long time, the Ertzaintza has a record of the existence of this radical swelling. Do you have it or don't you have it, Counselor? I guess so, but it doesn't work out about that swelling. Why doesn't it work? What is the political or other reason for not acting? Last Thursday there was a bar, seat of a radical swelling, where a series of elements were inserted to attack. And yet, no order was given for them to be decommissioned. Why? On the other hand, two hours before the match, the Ertzaintza identified the components of the antifascist demonstration called and extensible batons, metal bars, American fists, stone and pyrotechnic material were requested. All too own to go see football. What has been done to them? How many open procedures are there? How many have been identified in the videos? Has anyone been sanctioned? How many? We must reflect, because it is not possible for a football game to paralyze a city. Because last Thursday there was a school without classes. The hoteliers were unable to take out the terraces, there was urban furniture destroyed. Can this be admitted for a football game? I also mention, Madam Counsellor, the reason for this inquiry is the organisation of the operation. That the party was at high risk, implied that the device should have been the one that corresponded to a party of these characteristics. That is, a well-organized operation, with a sufficient number of agents. An operation that guarantees the safety of citizens and of the agents themselves. And I know what you're going to answer, counselor, because you said it in a media outlet: "It was very well organized. That it was an effective operation. That it worked well." But it just wasn't. Except you and your team, no one else sees it. There were bell battles, not to mention a deceased. It was an operation that was again insufficient, and that was again poorly organized. First, you pointed out that 500 agents would be part of the operation. However, this was denied by the Ertzaintza unions that they pointed out, that there were 216 Mobile Brigade agents, 36 vans to six agents each. We only have to multiply, and there was one less, 215. And 150 citizens' protection. In the esplanade of San Mamés, at the time of the confrontation of both radical hobbies, is it true that there were only 15 agents? 15? The fact that the number of agents was insufficient caused an overload of emotional stress and stress in them, which is linked to what is already normal. An operation that did not sufficiently control the radicals of Athletic, when these, as I have told you before, have been the cause of much of the riots that are taking place in Bilbao in all the parties. At the time of the campal battle, between the two hobbies, there were parents with children, who were simply going to watch football. The launch of flares, cobblestones and other objects put them at serious risk. Do you think that with 15 agents, if it was the ones there, you can deal with them? Counselor, there are two models of intervention in this type of disturbance. The model that needs less agents, which maintains a non-contact space and which uses instruments such as rubber ball launchers. Another model, which is one that goes hand in hand, in which many more agents have to be part of the operation, more agents than possible demonstrators. You seem to have chosen a hybrid. They removed the rubber ball launchers, replaced them with the 40-mm launchers. Members of the Brigade wonder why they are forced to use these launchers, when on many occasions they have proved insufficient. They even wonder why they are forced to carry them, to carry them, when they are not allowed to use them in any case. That, it could be because you have chosen the second model, that of the body to body. But the number of agents, then, is clearly insufficient. Previous days it was said that 2,000 Russian amateurs were coming. Most of them violent. And you put up against those 2,000 Russians, plus the radical inflated here, working 215 Mobile Brigade agents and 150 citizen security in a body-to-body. The party was estimated to be high risk and the operation was not sufficient. Not to mention, a day's game whose risk was such that there could not even be classes in a nearby school, the vice-counselor and the director of the Ertzaintza, went to Madrid to a fair. And with Ertzainas and wounded fans, with a dead ertzaina, with serious disturbances, the crisis table closes at nine o'clock in the night. I was going to say that, Madam Counsellor, you will answer me that the operation was very well organized, you must add that we are the tallest, the strongest, the most handsome, because by self-congratulation it does not remain. And if this is so, I ask you, Counselor, does he mean that the following operations are going to be organized the same way? If this one was perfectly organized, on the 15th of March, which plays the Athletic with the Olympique de Marseille, which two years ago planted chaos in Bilbao, which caused destruction in the center, which put at risk a lot of people who were on the street at the time, who put flares in the field, are they going to organize it exactly the same? We hope that the situation of stress, work overload and emotional stress will not cause an agent to lose his life again, as happened to Inocencio Alonso. But how many wounded are there going to be? Because in addition to the unfortunate death of the Mobile Brigade agent, there were nine officers injured. Are you willing to assume that there are agents injured for organizing the operation in the same way? Even if he's injured, if the wounded are Ertzaintza agents, then the operation will be a success. Because you know what's going on, counselor? That there is a feeling among the officers, and that the Department of Security that there are wounded agents doesn't care. If the wounded are the agents of the Ertzaintza, then the operation, despite those wounded, is a success. Madam Counsellor, responsible for the riots, the radicals; but, of course, responsible for the operation, you. Yesterday, the officers were protesting here, not for a pay raise, as you like to say, no. They protested because they can no longer, because this has been the drop that has filled the glass and, of course, then I will refer to it, it is not to be received that you, Mr Ortuzar, call them stalkers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u122	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u123	Thank you, ma'am, good morning. Yesterday 250 of the borderers acted in front of this legislature, and I say, as I feel, it's unacceptable, humiliating, and humiliating. What took place in front of this Basque Parliament yesterday was, and I say so as I am sorry, intolerable, denouncingable and punishable. Untolerable because it comes besides where it comes from, of those who call themselves to represent the professionals of the Ertzaintza, and I do not want to sin unjustly, there was the majority union and also the two minority unions, but there was not much of the union representation of the Ertzaintza and in this, as in everything in life, to each one that corresponds to it. But it is clear that those who were in front of Parliament yesterday, seriously hindering the access of many of you and the passage of citizens, were forgotten that they are due to Basque citizenship and, therefore, that they are also due to the institutions that safeguard and guarantee their rights. And yesterday, besides, it's denouncing. Denunciationable because they failed to comply with the most basic norms of respect for coexistence, and the laws and norms that Ertzaintza must enforce in this type of concentrations and public demonstrations. The Ertzaintza unions are no exception to the law, so this behaviour will have its consequences. Those who convened the concentration will be subject to the Citizenship Security Act, with the appropriate administrative penalties, because they exceeded the security cord applied in these concentrations. And I hope, and I hope that you will take note of this in that box of complaints and complaints that your party has made available only to the Ertzaintza. But I also want to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u124	Silence. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u125	That wasn't the subject I wanted to start with...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u126	Mr. Sémper, you don't have the word. Please, ya, Mr. Sémper, one, you don't have a word. Please, Mr. Sémper, you don't have words, ya. Ya, please, Mr. Sémper, whatever you want to do when you're president, it's me now, shut up, please. Okay, shut up. I told you, Mr. Sémper, the third and you'll go out. Keep going, chief of the department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u127	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. But I also want to say that this was not the wish, my desire to start this intervention to give it an answer. My wish was also in what I expressed last 24th in Bilbao, in the act of handing over diplomas and medals to merit in civil protection and in the attention to emergency cases. I wanted to share my feelings there with those who on that day represented values of courage, surrender, teamwork and solidarity, and above all, I wanted to express in public what the day before can do in private with the family, which was nothing more than to express once again the pain and dismay of the Government, the Department and the Ertzaintza for the death of Inocencio Alonso, agent of the mobile brigade in act of service. He died at the gates of San Mamés, in front of the stadium of his team, in the prolegomens of the meeting between Athletic and Spartak of Moscow, in a football match that some intentionally wanted to tarnish with acts of free and irrational violence. I also expressed here the recognition and personal and institutional admiration for what he and the Ertzaintza represent for Basque citizenship. But, of course, this is not what a limited group of ertzainas did yesterday, with that intolerable and unacceptable attitude towards parliamentarians, the Government and the lehendakari. The unions signed a contract that regulates the terms of the edge of work. ErNE and ESAN know that it's called a table to look for, to examine and agree on certain terms of work and money, and the unions know that it was called on for next Tuesday, as well as the Council for the Border. That is right, the unions that signed the agreement regulating the working conditions of the Ertzaintza, ErNE and ESAN, know from last week that the Department of Security has convened the even table to deal with the labor issues of improving the conditions of wages and hours. ErNE has resigned for two calls and the attendance to this partner, the one planned this week and the one planned next Monday; also know the unions that next Tuesday, we had already convened the Council of the Ertzaintza for next Tuesday, Council of the Ertzaintza in which we will present the file for the declaration of act of service and award of medal to the recognition to the police work with red badge for Inocencio Alonso. Because it is fair to acknowledge that he died in an act of service, when he was part of a large-scale device, organized to ensure public safety in the environment of that night's football match, in which he was going to intervene with other comrades to control the incidents that followers of both teams were beginning to generate. What we have all been able to see in images, incidents that did not last long, because the Ertzaintza has neutralized quickly and effectively, but that they do not cease to be worrying, intolerable and condemnable always. For the Ertzaintza Council, issues such as the modernization of the mobile brigade are also raised. We will talk with all the unions about the reflections they want to bring to the improvement in everything that needs to be improved; it is important that each union also make clear its position, on how to modernize the mobile brigade, but also, about what happened yesterday in front of this Parliament. We have an obligation to know which legal and coexistence rules and which democratic rules of play are more willing to violate some. We need to know, as a Department and as a Government, and as a society, what guarantees of security are willing to give us those who speak on behalf of the union representation of the Ertzaintza. Let some unions explain to us, with hairs and signals, what it means to promote that there are ertzainas that take leave for illness without objective cause, because they do not want to participate in the security operations of the party of Athletic and Olympique de Marseille. We need to know that and we'll know. The party's operation last Thursday was well organized, well planned, thanks to the work of Ertzaintza, of the services that intervene that coordinate through major events, thanks to the intelligence work and, Mrs Llanos, do not confuse a headline with what I have been demonstrating throughout the week. All week long I have put the point on the need and the risk of both hobbies, and it seems to me, and it seems to me, that you should correct when you speak of 2,000 Russians coming, as if the 2,000 Russians were the people, all of them, violent and going to burn Bilbao. Indeed, the Ertzaintza worked on the two hobbies, and so it was possible, so it was possible to requisition precisely all that material that you have listed here from a certain group of fans or fans who call themselves Athletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u128	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u129	Madam Counselor. Your answer has been unheard-of, unheard-of; firstly, because you have not responded to me in one thing I will tell you and, secondly, because you have done an exercise of pride as we have rarely seen in this House. Truly, you have put on the same plane the death of an ertzaine with the demonstrations that occurred yesterday here. You've practically threatened those ertzainas who dare to take the opposite to you, because what happened here yesterday was a demonstration...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u130	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u131	A demonstration. You're telling me you're going to enforce the Citizen Security Act against those protesters? And you don't apply it against radicals on other occasions? Do you even want to please the radicals of this country? Really, Counselor? And you, that there were two unions that weren't there yesterday, doesn't mean that they didn't ask for your resignation and that they didn't feel the same way. And you dare tell me you felt harassed. But if you were more dressed yesterday than the ertzainas that were in the esplanade of San Mamés, if you came with the whole government. That there were more people than those who were harassed, that are the ertzainas who were in the camp of San Mamés, falling all kinds of objects in that operation so well organized, according to you. Really? Can you define, as Mr Ortuzar says, that this is a situation of harassment? Those of us who have experienced a situation of harassment, and in much more solitude than you were yesterday, we know that yesterday was not a harassment. And I'm going to tell her a letter that they wrote to her: "She felt threatened, but she wasn't. You cannot be more sure; we will criticize your work, but we would play the physicist for it, as we do any other day for any citizen, because we will continue to be responsible. We'll still be cops." This has been written to you by those agents to whom you are going to apply the Law on Citizen Security and who, according to you yesterday, had a threatening attitude. You say the operation worked well. You, I tell you, must be the only one who thinks so; but if you think the operation worked well, really, go home, go home. If you think the operation worked well, stick to something else, but not to organize operations, because I'm telling you, you and your management team must be the only, the only, who think the operation was right. And no wonder I say it, because I've already told you, the self-congratulation you've been demonstrating since Anoeta's first match in 2012 in which there may have been a misfortune, it's palmaria, occasion after occasion, and it's impossible to improve, it's impossible to rectify, it's impossible to organize a good operation, when in the face of a bad organization, in the face of a bad organization, you only answer that it was well organized. I told you before, nine officers injured, don't you care? You don't care about anything? Is it a success with nine wounded agents, with flares, with cobblestones running from one side to the other? Is that a success? Is that how you're going to organize the Olympique de Marseille? How many wounded are there going to be? How many wounded? How many are you willing to assume, wounded by the Ertzantza, that there is? How many are you willing to take over? Because she's already warned. Well, you've had a lot of announcements before, but let's see if you've reacted in this thousandth ad. Really, look, you have an absolutely professional police; you have an absolutely qualified police; you have a police officer you have to be proud of. But it is organized and directed in an absolutely harmful way. Let him look at it. As I say to you, if the operation was a success, stick to something else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u132	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u133	Thank you. Indeed, it seems that a letter has come to you addressed to me before I read it to myself. On Monday the bilateral table is convened and on Tuesday the Ertzaintza Council, in the meantime, as you already know, Mrs Llanos, that of these things we have spoken many, many times, the Ertzaintza is already at work to prepare the device that is necessary and that better suits the circumstances of the new European league party on the 15th in San Mamés. And you will understand, Mrs Llanos, that neither you nor I, but the people you know, the Ertzaintza professionals, people with skills, with experience, with training. The Ertzaintza has the Chief of Coordination for Major Events, who oversees the planning and evaluates such events. Therefore, I insist on what you have heard me say many times here, police devices are organized by those who have training, those who have experience, those who have the capacity and knowledge to do so. The same is true of the 22nd and the next that they will organize for the 15th, and in this they are working, working in a coordinated and complementary way with the leaders of the Athletic, with the leaders of the Olympique de Marseille, with the French police, with the City of Bilbao, with the local police, with the Directorate of Emergency and Meteorology, the Directorate of Gambling and Shows, the emergency services of Osakidetza, Red Cross, DYA, firefighters, volunteers of civil protection. That is to say, much effort is being made and the resources allocated to it. But we demand that part of that effort also be co-responsibility for Athletic in this particular case. We have not yet closed the party's file against Spartak, but in compliance with the Law on Public Shows and Recreational Activities, because logically the corresponding part will be claimed to be paid for the special device that had to be put in. It is not punishment, it is co-responsibility as fixed the law, the same that we have always asked from the Board of Play and Shows to football and basketball clubs of the most important categories regarding awareness campaigns, awareness against violent, xenophobic and anti-democratic attitudes in sports spaces. We did it explicitly in collaboration with the Alavés and the Spanish Football League, as the Culture Advisor has already advanced, on the occasion of the final of the Cup in Madrid between the Alavés and Barcelona, and we will now launch it in the Athletic. And not because we think that these campaigns are the magic pocima, but rather because we believe that they also contribute to those who want to hear about ensuring security. Intangible by elkarrekin lan Egypt, kirolaren inguruko indarkeriari ate asko itxi behar zaizkio, horregatik bidali dugu Kultura Sailarekin beat lankidetza proposed bat UEFara. That's why we've directed ourselves at the initiative of the Gambling and Entertainment Directorate of this Department of Security and the Sports Directorate of the Department of Culture to UEFA, to show them our total willingness to collaborate beyond what we already collaborate in the organization of police devices. Collaborate in all that can contribute to promoting and facilitating appropriate mechanisms and measures to try to prevent hobbies that incite violence or practice violence from moving among all. Also to try to prevent them from accompanying their teams to the cities in which the parties are fighting and thus to prevent them from having access to the entrances to these meetings. Therefore, Mrs Llanos, do not focus so much on union demands, trust the Ertzaintza. An Ertzaintza of which, by the way, from the first moment I assume this position I am very proud of the professionals there, both of those who have to execute the operatives, and those who design the devices. I therefore do not know whether you think of better police officers who were protesting here yesterday in front of Parliament, who took care in a professional and supportive way of the hundreds of incidents that also occurred in Euskadi yesterday. On the 15th, in Bilbao, we will again have a police device that is adequate and tailored to the needs. More, as announced yesterday at your press conference or your party at your press conference, to deal with, to put in place effective measures to eradicate violence in the field of sport. I'm convinced that we can all get it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u134	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramon Becer, Carollo, together with the legal members of the Podemos team, to the head of the Security Department, not to assign service to SOS Delak-112 emergency calls." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u135	Good morning, everyone. Madam Counsellor, in September 2017 the contract for the award of the SOS Deiak emergency care service was published, and six months later it is still not awarded. Can you tell us what the reason is?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u136	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u137	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, you are interested in the reasons why the hiring of the emergency call service has not been resolved, to phone number 112-SOS Deiak. And the reason is very simple: for purely administrative matters. Administrative technical matters. This is an important contract not exempt from technical complexities, according to the characteristics and the relevance of the care services it covers, and as such, its processing is also demanding, it is exhaustive, it guarantees the public interest and respect for the rights and interests of the tenderers. It is therefore subject to the transparency rules required by public procurement and to the internal rules of the Administration. And at this point, I wanted to remind you that the complexity of the file and of the procurement also lies in part in the fact that it covers two services: on the one hand, the attention to calls to 112-SOS Deiak and, on the other hand, the attention to citizens on the incidences of traffic to 011. These two issues, as you can imagine and, indeed, as you have indicated, the recruitment file begins on September 14, 2017, later than we would have liked. The reason, as I explained in the question I was asked last December 2017, is that at the last hour we had to modify the specification by adjusting it to the new collective agreement of the Contact Center that had been published in the Official State Gazette on July 17, and that it came to improve the conditions of the workers. As a result of these changes, the opening date of the envelopes was published on 29 September in the contractor's profile. In any case, to say that the whole procedure continues to move forward, which is already in its final phase, which can lead us to formalise the contract in the second half of April, if there were no recourse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u138	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u139	Counselor, the contract has not been expired for six months, it has been expired for more than two years, since 2016. And beyond purely administrative matters, it seems that you sometimes forget that behind contracts there are people. People for whom the second half of April is far away. There are people on the SOS Deiak staff who are in a situation of absolute interinity. They were forgotten to include subrogation in the 2011 brochure and therefore these people have not been old since 2012. Not only are they not old, but they have no future, because as long as that contract is not awarded, those people do not know whether they are going to continue working or not. They are people who have spent more than five years in a vital anguish that I would like everyone in this House to understand. And not only are they in an interim situation, they are in a precarious situation, because as long as there is no new contract they cannot negotiate a new agreement; and if they cannot negotiate a new agreement they will continue with the unfortunate working conditions they have so far: just 200 euros above the interprofessional minimum wage. One of the last conditions they asked at the time, when they asked to start negotiating, was to be able to have day and a half in a row to be with their families. Day and a half in a row to be with their families. They can't even negotiate that. But do you know what the company has done in the meantime? He's taken away their annual planning. Now you just give them a work plan month by month. So, by mid-April you don't know if you'll be hired, but they can't even know if you're going to be on vacation or have days off. And those are their conditions now, and I said this the first time, the problem with this issue, one of the problems from my point of view is that 90% of this workforce is women. And they are women in a situation of precariousness and a situation of indwelling. And next Thursday, March 8, surely your Government, the government to which you belong, will celebrate the day high and speak of a wage gap, and these telephone workers charge 60% less than any telephone worker on the government staff. That's pay gap too. Not between men and women, but between women and women. Because you put in conditions, indignant and miserable working conditions. And not only can they not, they do not have decent working conditions, but on the 8th of March, these women, will not be able to strike like all the others, neither on the 8th of March, nor on the rest of the day of the year, because you, your Government, have put at least 100 % of your services and have not even the right to strike. And you know what's worse? The worst is not that you deny Parliament that for three times it has harmed you, the worst is not that you say, as you said about Ertzaintza, that you are happy with the work of that staff, and yet you do not reward it in any way. The worst is that they behave like this with people who save lives every day, and that any day they can save me, or they can save you. And look, from the political point of view, the situation of people is SOS Deiak is inadmissible. You said that the attitude of Ertzaintza was intolerable. I say that the attitude of the Government politically is intolerable and unacceptable. But from the point of view of a citizen, even from the human point of view, I tell him that this situation after year and peak, or two years, personally causes me tremendous shame.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u141	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Look, Mr Becerra, all I can tell you is what state this file is in, and we have to be on 23 November 2017. On that date, after analysing the three proposals submitted, the contracting directorates, both the Directorate for Emergency Management and Meteorology and the Directorate for Traffic, issued the relevant report of the proposals; and on the basis of that technical report, the staff of the recruitment bureau drafted the report of the economic offers submitted, classifying the proposals in this way and determining that the proposed undertaking, on the basis of that assessment, was Lanalden SA. Now, once all the controls of the Office of Economic Control have been exceeded, the file with all its documentation is again in the hands of the central recruitment desk. The Bureau which has already asked the contracting company for the certificates to be aware of tax obligations and social security and the deposit of the bond, procedures that are, as I say, in its final phase and, therefore, in a demanding, comprehensive, guaranteeing phase of public procurement, subject to strict rules of quality control and transparency, and at the moment, as I have said before, we are already in that final stage. I hope, if there are no appeals, that we will be able to settle this contract definitively, with these pre-established times and guarantees, in the second half of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-03-02.u142	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. The Democratic Arab Republic of Sheba is the 42th anniversary of the institutional representation. "On the 27th of February, the people of Saharas celebrated the forty-second year of the Arabian Democratic Republic of Sheba. It is precisely in order to form the state, and to build it, that the stages of success should be overcome, and that of freedom, and of absolute sovereignty. A Basque delegation has been in the camps of refugees during the days before the ceremony, and has been able to see from it the daily reality of this family and its institutional reality. In these forty-two years, the Saharawi people have succeeded in consolidating their own national identity, thanks to sacrifices and national unity. Each Saharan must be proud of the functioning of its national institutions, despite the harsh conditions of exile and the lack of resources. The Saharawi people are more than ever attached to their legitimate rights to self-determination and independence, and will continue the struggle against Morocco, the occupying Power, responsible for the repression and expoliation of the natural resources of Western Sahara. In this context, the European Court of Justice has just delivered a judgment in which it has reaffirmed that Morocco has no sovereignty over Western Sahara and cannot have its resources. We therefore urge the United Nations to promote without further delay the just and definitive settlement of this conflict, which involves the exercise of the self-determination right of the Saharan people through the holding of a free and transparent referendum as a culmination of the process of unfinished decolonization. We reaffirm that the Frente Polisario is the only legitimate representative of the Saharan people. We demand that Morocco carry out the immediate release of all Saharan political and conscientious prisoners, and cease human rights violations in its prisons and in the occupied territories of Western Sahara. We ask that the Mission of the United Nations of the United Nations, in order to organize the Referendum in the Western Sahara, do more work to control and guard the human rights in the occupied regions of the Western Sahara. We demand that the Spanish Government give a diplomatic status to the representative of Fronte Polisarius in Spain, the sole and lawful representative of the people of Saharar. Let him confess the Democratic Republic of Sheba, and its necessary political projects, to begin from the Peace of the United Nations of West Sahaa, an everlasting and just solution to the peace plan of the United Nations. We report that the government of Morocco is exploiting natural resources for the Western Sahara. We demand that the corporations of the Western Sahara should respect, on the one hand, the perpetual sovereignty over natural resources, and on the other the rules of the international law of humanity, which ought to be applied to the exploitation of natural resources in a occupied country. We remember that Morocco has no sovereignty over the Western Sahara and that the European Union cannot make an agreement with Morocco without the license of the Nationalist Front. Besides, the European Union is obliged to accuse every unlawful state of this principle, and the violation of those rules. The declaration will be sent to the Royal House of Spain, to the Presidence of the Spanish Government, to the Ministry of Foreign Problems, to the European Committee, to the Representative of the Police, and to the Embassy of Morocco." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-nine.
