ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u0	Egun denoi. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Excellent of the development of Equionomy and the development of the Substructure, made on the bill of the Portuguese and marine transportation of Euskal Autonomy. Discipline and final resolution. Some member of the board, against or against the judgment? Well, he's got the word from the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, after 36 years since the transfer of the ports to the Basque Country took place, we will have, for the first time, a law of ports, a law of ports that we have agreed, I believe, that among almost all groups: some will like them more; others will like them less. We believe, like all groups, that it was a necessary law long ago. There have been at least three or four failed bills in previous legislatures, and this law, which obviously has many technical points, has others that are not, such as management: how the ports will be managed and what the management system will be. The proposal for an initial law, with which we obviously did not agree, proposed that the department should stop directly managing the ports; a public body, called Kaiak, was created which would manage them and, in turn, an anonymous society would manage the sporting part of those Basque ports. In the course of the amendments, with the agreements that we have reached, of course, Kaiak disappears, that body which was set up ex-professionally. We have adopted and accepted amendments from all groups. And what we wanted to make clear in this law, because one of the points of discussion has been the issue of accessibility, is that there is no need to repeat accessibility to ports, because there is already a generic accessibility law for everyone, but well, it is collected. But, anyway, we also want to make one thing clear: ports are not pools, docks are not beaches and are not – let's say – subjects of everyday use of citizenship, but are for the use of port users and the function that ports have. Among the agreements we have reached, we have been accepted more than 53 amendments by acceptance, by compromise. We have accepted amendments from Bildu; we have accepted amendments from Podemos, and it is clear that the law that will be adopted today and that we are going to adopt today respects the competences that in its day were transferred, that is, the Basque ports, with the exception of the ports of general interest, which, as much as Bildu is committed to including Bilbao and Passages in this bill, it is clear that they are not suitable, as is laid down in the Statute of Self-Government of Gernika. And so, all we want in this process, and I'm going to be very brief and I'm going to finish, is to congratulate ourselves because we're not going to be the last autonomous community to pass a port law, we're going to be the penultimate, after 36 years "I repeat," and it is clear that we must regulate the management of the Basque ports dependent on the Basque Government, which are almost all, except Bilbao and Passages, as you all know. And what we hope is that with this new law, which will be passed, that management will be more efficient than it has been so far. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Well, today's short. We have the day of happiness to-day; we shall pass over a new law, a law we needed, a law necessary, and besides a law well trained and arranged, right? I believe that it was a necessary law, and a good example of this is that during several legislatures work has been done on this law; nobody escapes that in certain matters it has been a law, for good, which provoked dissent between the different groups in this House; but, fortunately, today we come to adopt a law that is based on the agreement, which is based on consensus, in which amendments have been introduced by the different groups represented in this House and which, after all, is nothing more than a good example of the years we have been working on this law. As I said, a law in which we have participated all the parliamentary groups represented in this House. All the groups had tabled amendments, which I believe have enriched and improved the original text that came from the previous parliamentary term. And I think that this is an important issue, because, although it is true that in the end, obviously, today this law comes forward thanks to the agreement, it is no less true that it also shows that, in some way, the governing partners themselves have previously been able to agree on the terms on which this law was to be adopted. Like I said, in the past... or in the previous legislature, we had dissents, but thanks to the agreement, understanding, dialogue between different people, we wanted, through the amendments that we tabled at the time, to correct and bring the positions closer to, in this way, trying to achieve what is going to be a reality today, which is to approve this law, because they were also issues that prompted the agreement of the majority of parliamentary groups. I therefore believe that it is good to make this clear, that it is good to say it and, moreover, I believe that, thanks to this, we have managed to make this law a much more sustainable, much more rational law that meets the real needs, that perfectly respects what competences are and that I believe that, moreover, it sets in motion a series of instruments that will make the management of our ports a much more effective management. Finally, as the representative of the People's Group, Mr Damborenea, said, what was originally conceived as Kaiak is eliminated, and that issue is going to be directly managed by the Euskadi Administration and Euskal Kirol Portuak is created, which we believe is much more rationalizing management, which is tailored to needs and which can make such management infinitely more effective...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u5	There is a presence of the different administrations, also municipal representation, which will have a voice on these issues. And I have no doubt that, thanks to the inter-institutional collaboration and the existence of a law that, as I said, was demanded by the sector and that was perfectly necessary for the better management of our ports, we will make it possible for our ports to be much more efficient and to be managed in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u7	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. We need a law of ports in Euskadi, but this is not the law of ports we need; we need a law of ports with more public control, with cooperation and collaboration between the different institutions, with more job security and with more transparency in management. We need a port law, but this isn't the one we need. Eta hala esan genuine passes otsailean osoko zuzenketak eztabaidatu zirenean. Eztabaida horretan ezarri genuen portuak kudeatu behar dituen erakundeak izaera publikoa izan behar duela, klima-aldaketari buruzko eraginak ekiditeko portuak egokitu behar zirela, eta, harreman institutionale soneak eta zintzoak edukitzeko, portuko udal-kontseiluak eraberritu egin behar zirela. But unfortunately, it wasn't possible, and we still think it requires a harbour law from Euská. And in order to improve this law, we introduced 33 corrections, but it was not possible, and the government did not accept most, but admitted only seven. Of these seven there are three, in order to apply a better legislation of environment, and to prevent the effects of three other changes of climate. It is fortunate that we have succeeded in changing climates, but unfortunately in other major parts we have not seen any progress, which is why we cannot vote for this law. Among these principal sections, we introduced correction: It was the first: We believe that the organization that will handle sports holidays (Euskadian Sports Ports), must be public nature instead of private. And why? Well, it's important at the time of hiring personal workers, but it's especially important when you're in a position to hire and overducts. And that won't be the case, especially during the sports vacations. Even the institutional relations are important. It must be a good specimen, that these relations may be strong, honest, and able to encourage the work of association, and this union will be impossible with the structure of the councils of the harbour today. The councils ought to be present, but with equal equality with the government, and the decisions must be consistent. And our second amendment was directed to it, our second amendment, unfortunately we were not able to carry on, but it is important, because most of the Portuguese are in the middle of the coast-lands, and the ports are public places, and we believe that the decisions which are to be made about these ports are not to be imposed, and that the councils of the harbour are important. The articles about the charges of labour are important in this law, and we introduced them with two other amendments which were directed to it: one was an 11-number correction that the port administration should do coordination and a job of work. -to ensure security, even to avoid accidents or to reduce them. And here I must remind myself that two bodies have already been killed this year in the Bay of Bilbo. Then it's important to do co-ordination in business security on the portaries, but they haven't accepted it. And it's important, too, that when the weights move, the paper of the workers is checked. And I want to remind him that in article 53, that this article of this law is established for workers when they fall into violations of rule. The workers will be the workers, and that will not be allowed at all; it will not be just at all. And, in conclusion, I must mention that there has been some transparency in the management of ports, and in order to correct it, we introduced two more amendments, and bring them to vote today. The first is to class the services of the harbour in two sets; On the one hand, the general services, and the other the exploitation services. Why? General services must be public, and there must be public management, and may be private contraction in others. But that must be carefully classified, not to confuse everything. And the second correction we bring is about the fishing fish that comes to the Basque ports. Now, the fishing comes by trucks, not only on boats, and we think that in the harbors there must be a priority for the fish that landed, but not for the one brought by the trucks. In short, we think that we need more public controls, honest organizations, the security and management of workers in this law. We've done mints for that, and unfortunately we haven't been able to carry them forward. But we're bringing them to vote today. And from us, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EHG team, Madam Olivet, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u9	Good morning, everyone. At the end of the previous legislation, as has been said for the first time since this bill of port and transport was presented to us, we have considered a law which will regulate our ports, and which has been sent to us by so many agents, by the peoples of our ports and ports, from the first moment. But from the very first moment, it seemed to us that he had so much deficiency, and, in order to correct these privations, and to improve the law itself, we introduced several corrections: the whole correction, on the one hand, and 31 to articulate correction. Two of these corrections were admitted to us, and we had two more half-breeds to account for when we weren't accepted, we've booked 14 today. If they were admitted, we'd have a better law because we're still thinking about it. 142. One of these is a correction and a third. It's a correction to remove the chapter. Cayas, the public institution of private law, is now demanded to remove the Basque Ports from the same nature, and we have also reserved another ten men's amendments connected with it. As we have always said, so far as we are concerned with the management of certain public services and sub-structions, we are apt to believe that the Administration ought to govern them directly by placing personal and material means necessary for this purpose. The formation of the organization of private law as planned opens the way to privatization from the beginning we have said and maintained here, and it seems to us that the sole aim of this is to make use of the springs of private law. And it is true that we shall find him in a far better situation than we now have, for in reality he does not create a new organization, for a public society which has been changing the legal form of society for years. 2000. A public society formed in the year will become a public institution of private law, but this does not mean that the chosen formula is appropriate, because it is to maintain a "chiringite." If we didn't see the original bill justified in managing the 15 ports of our jurisdiction as a whole, we didn't need any organization, and we didn't say this alone; we'd heard it over and over again, and even less now, when we were talking about ports for sports and leisure and leisure. So we keep thinking about that. Another correction we have reserved is 146. The object of this correction was to apply this law as a whole, or at least to receive it in the law for all the other sub-fuctructures which the Eucommens love in the future, and which are now considered to be of general interest, to the Portuguese of Bilbos and Paseia. This law only affects ports of the right of the Euscal Autonomy of the Renaissance, which, unfortunately, prevails in this respect as the fault of right. And this is the reason why they reserve it: the present state of putting it on the table. According to the Autonomy State, EAE has a exclusive right over the ports, on ports which are not always considered to be of general interest. This law, therefore, affects ports which are not considered to be of general interest, which are, properly speaking, almost all to the port of fishing and sports, except that of the Bermecan, which is the only harbour, which, according to our limited jurisdictions, is a merchant, which is directed to the carriage of merchandise, and the only harbour we can manage. The two most important points on our sea-coast, the ports of Pasadena and Bilbo, which are extremely strategic for the development of our country, and are excluded from this law for the competition of our country; we cannot manage them; we cannot manage the activities of these ports, nor even organize the structure of the ports themselves. We have also denied managing the international trade policy of these ports. This puts limits to the development of these two ports; it has an extraordinary influence on the development of these ports, and consequently in the economic and social development of our country, and in the competitive development of our economy. So, as has been said before, first of all, what we would like to remark is that we should have had the rights of the two ports of Pasadena and Bilbo long ago between our jurisdictions. The transfer of these two ports must be immediate, and it is necessary that the state should be immediately transferred. As a matter of fact, this transfer seems to be a priority, but we have to go through words, because we always meet a large wall with the Spanish State. After 39 years, it's time for the State to be filled with a written state of the organic law. In the case of ports, the blankness of this limited autonomy, our dependence on the Spanish State, is remarkable, and we need a new frame which will transcend this lock. And these two are the aspects we intended to emphasise: the wager and management of a new model of management were the proclamation of the necessity of extending to all our ports. But we have also reserved three other corrections which have not been accepted, or I would like to mention them this time: On the one hand, the correction of the important organs which are required to constitute the system of the harbour and of the townships which attend the townships of the harbour, in order to participate in the most efficient manner in the decisions which attend the establishment of the townships. It seems important to us that, independently of the consultant organs which the institutions and societies produce in order to participate in, we should agree with the councils in all the decisions which attend the municipal communities, especially the decisions which influence them in the country. On the other hand, we have the right to use the molecules in total, including extensions, and the correction required that they should not be longer than eight years old. He gave the Jaba an article on the public and on the midwife's permission. It is said that if the occupation of the public assemblies is to be used for parentage, it is necessary to obtain permission for five years, but that it may last for another five years. What we wanted through this correction was to limit these permits at most eight years, just as it has been received in the law on Euscadian Ondare. But you went to the opposite direction, because in this legal project we're holding, the occupation can't last more than 15 years ago. It took 15 years since the early billing. We saw a possible collision between the two laws; but, as far as both laws are of the same rank, the one is not subject to the other, and the law of inheritance is general; and as the law of the ports regulates an inheritance which is specific, the legal security is guaranteed. Nevertheless, we continue to think, that, according to what has been received in the law of patrimony, we ought to limit the rights of the mother-country for eight years. And lastly, we desire to point out the correction which requires that the conditions of service, use, and space should not be checked by necessity, should be regarded as a very serious breach of rule. We all received it at the Fellowship. Moreover, in an institutional expression of November, the legislature declared it, by the engagement to increase and demand universal access in the development of its legislation. From this Illus it has been admitted that one of the aims of this law is to secure certain conditions of access in ports and shipping facilities. This makes us partly glad that in the Union the demand received from the confederation is, as it were, at a certain period, in a small measure, but it does not seem sufficient. It seems essential to us not to ensure the necessity of fulfilling the needs of service in ports, and the conditions of access to space, to be regarded as a very serious breach of rule. And we're still in time for that in the law. We find it necessary to guarantee the rights of all the citizens, and the rights of the citizens who have inadequacy. and though I have but very little time to mention it, I shall presently throw it out, in the 23rd article of this law, that there is a remarkable difference between eucalyptic and youthful versions: In the Euskalian version, it's said that the Basque Sports Centers will be attached to the "go-go-on-go-go-on-of-the-Ming-Ming-Mod-Mo-Mod's" series, and in his youth again, "adscrito al departamento del Gobierno Vassente compos en material de puertos," as it should be. I mentioned it on the last commission, and it did not occur to me that in this law, which we have just received, in this new law, it is equally received. Please correct this mistake at once; I know it will correct, or I hope so. And for the next time, please, be more careful. It is not the first time that this government has made such remarkable mistakes, and we have often accused it, we have laid it on the table again and again. I only respect the Basques...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u10	Go to the end of it, Mrs. Olives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u11	...here we see how I end hubing, please, please. As far as I can see, it is the usual thing to read the youthful version and ignore the eucalyptic version, but some of us work on the eucalyptus, and then, with respect to us and respect for the eucalyptus, please proceed more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u12	Thank you, Madam Mount. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u13	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. "Escal Autonomia Eremia, the historical connection with the sea and port activity, economic and social, and to the future, it is evident that the development of our economy, of society, and of politics, must be a close relation to the activities which may be developed in ports, because there are necessary sub-structions for the development of so many activities, such as trade, industry, and leisure activities, and leisure activities. Thus begins the explanatory statement, the preamble, of the law of ports and maritime transport of the Basque Country, which today we bring to this plenary for approval. And, in a few paragraphs, the intentionality of it is perfectly expressed: that the sea and the coast are an inescapable part of our country, of our past, of our present and, without a doubt, of our future. The coast, the sea and the ports form an inexorable part of Euskadi, its history, its culture, its food and its economy in general. And, for a long time, leisure and tourism, which is still a new facet of the economy. Therefore, the ports are those areas of realization of the economic activity of the coast, in addition to the entrance doors of an important part of our food, and therefore the ports are an essential part of our culture, our history and our economy, in the Statute of Autonomy, in its article 10.32, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is attributed exclusive competence in the matter of ports, provided that they are not classified as of general interest. This was stated in Decree 2380/82 of 14 May, which carried out the transfer of goods and services in the field of ports from the State to the Autonomous Community, today exactly 36 years, one month and 14 days ago. In all this time, the ports of Euskadi – less Bilbao and Pasaia, declared, still, of general interest, and which we do not renounce to continue to claim – have been managed with different norms of lesser rank or through laws of another field, such as that of fees, property or sea fishing, without, until today, having been able to approve in this Parliament a law that marks a generic, normative... to regulate them and to support them in their objectives for the future. An increasingly necessary law, if we consider that ports have diversified their activity and require a more complex regulation than that of passing partial minor regulations. There have been several attempts, and paraphrasing Mr. Martinez when last Friday he spoke of La Naval de Sestao, our group took the helm to legislate and, for different reasons – sometimes spurious, most of them – they did not let us row, or when we took a motor boat, they took away the fuel we needed to sail. This time, the government again took the rudder and steered the boat, finding enough support on the way, to – and never better said – reach a good port. It is true that the preliminary draft law of ports of the last legislature had a global opposition, and without entering into the motivations of it, we have continued to work, so that, taking advantage of that same law and through amendments, we can achieve enough agreement to approve it today. This law does not cease to have a high technical content, which I am not going to describe in order not to bore the tired minds of its lords, but I am going to describe them in a generic way that, on the one hand, regulates the normal activity of a port in its commercial and fishing facets, establishing in a norm with the rank of law a way to make it offer stability and future; on the other hand, and in the face of the increasing demand of the sea as leisure, as tourism, as an economy not planned only a few years ago, establishes an organizational system adapted to this type of activity. If the usual activity of the ports will continue to be managed from the direct services of the Basque Government, as until now, the proposal of this law for the leisure-sport-tourism facet is that it is through a public body of private law, Euskal Kirol Portuak, not a chiringuito chiringuito A public body of private law is created, with public control, public control has not been lost, it remains public; I say this by my predecessors... Euskal Kirol Portuak, which still pre-existing, receives a generic commission to manage this plot in all the ports of Euskadi, establishing a regulation to respect, which covers all aspects of this new port economy. This activity, sports activity, requires staff at times other than normal public management; it requires staff at night hours, weekends, holiday seasons and, normally, does not correspond to what we understand as 'office hours'. It requires specific work, more similar to hotel and tourist management, which has made us understand that, to better serve it from the public administration, the optimal form was that of the public body. In fact, just for this summer, as an example, in the 15 sports ports owned by the Basque public administration, there will be 20 races of trainers, 10 of sails, 9 tests of swimming, 7 of triathlon, 4 of surfing and 4 of canoes, while in the ports, different festivals and jolgories will be held; I insist, only for this summer. If we add to this the increasing use of sports ports with fixed or temporary moorings of recreational boats and the management that this entails, it turns out that in a few years a new activity has arisen around our ports that demanded a response from the Administration and this Parliament, to offer instruments of regulation and management orderly and effective of a new economic sector that continues to grow but that cannot and must not hinder the traditional activity of the ports. This law goes so far as to allow traditional activities, those of all life, to continue and to grow with a norm, and that at the same time the port neo-economy can be developed, without the primality suffering for it. There are groups who have understood this and, in fact, after the effort to negotiate amendments, it has been possible to reach the agreement that we are presenting here today. And I cannot ignore our gratitude to the People's Group, which has been able to understand the intention of this law and has been able to provide criteria to improve it. However, there are groups which, despite the effort made, have left amendments to this final procedure. It's legitimate. Of EH Bildu, which has remained for today, basically a high percentage of them, refers to the disappearance of Kaiak as a public entity governed by private law, a body created under the original law, but which disappeared through the amendments themselves of the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. I understand that they continue to refer to EKP, which, as I said, only manages the sports side. But we will continue to understand, as I have already explained, that the sport part requires a model that is not strictly that of the Administration, but dependent on it and with agility in services and organization. We will therefore insist on maintaining the presentation's proposal. EH Bildu also maintains some aspect on the issue of accessibility, which, regardless of whether it is already regulated by specific legislation, was settled in the admission of an amendment that recalls the mandatory accessibility, already in article 1 of this law. And finally, they maintain an amendment that seeks, while Elkarrekin We can, that the harbour municipal councils are binding institutional bodies, which is an objectively ineffective and legally impossible issue. We can, for our part, that you have seen that some of your amendments, especially those relating to climate change – and you have mentioned this – have been accepted and others negotiated, have maintained a few amendments to this procedure, some of which are also related to the non-acceptance of this public body, which I am not going to repeat, while maintaining some that we understand is not sufficient reason to oppose the law, although everyone gives the importance he wants to the different matters. That is already a question of each one. In short, of a law that had 197 amendments for today's plenary, 20: 14 of EH Bildu and 6 of Elkarrekin Podemos have remained for its last procedure. Let us acknowledge that, at least, the work on amending the Rules of Procedure has been profound. In short, we have arrived at port after 36 years of managing the transfer and, from today, our ports will have a legislative tool that will allow for better delivery of services, which is what is intended. Our ports and the people living in their surroundings deserved an effort from all to equip them with new tools that will allow them to grow and develop port capacities, in those of always and in future, and this law allows it. There are those who have barely stayed out of the deal, and I will not remind you, they will remember when in a while they realize that they should have been here. Because, as Alex Rovira said: "Four things are there that we can never recover again: a stone after throwing it, a word after saying it, the time when it has passed and an occasion after losing it." We, therefore, will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, because I believe there are some contradictions, Mr Becerra. You say you want a more public management, and your group is the only one that maintains that there is the Kaiak public law entity in its amendments, to manage the Basque ports. All the other groups had been against us since the last legislature, except the Basque Nationalist Party. I understand there is no more public management than that which the Administration does directly, and not through a public body; it seems to me to be more public, and that is what is produced in this law. You are proposing with your amendments, and with the maintenance of your amendments, something else. And we can't agree. We have modified the councils of the ports to give entry, in addition to the municipalities, to the users who have something to say in the management of the ports. However, the competence lies with the Basque Government. That is, that the Basque Government, a public administration, cannot be left with its powers and functions, sharing it with the fair; it is not legally possible, nor politically recommendable, at least from our perspective. And Mrs. Otamendi, were you going to privatization? To this day, there is an anonymous society called EKP. I think it's easier to privatize an anonymous society than a public body. Moreover, I believe that a public entity cannot be privatized; but, of course, the result of this law is that an anonymous society disappears, that becomes a public entity and, therefore, I believe that the issue of its privatization I do not see anywhere. Apart from the fact that I have to tell you that there are ports of private management in the Autonomous Community and in the whole of the Cantabrian and the whole of the Mediterranean that work very well, and I do not know what is your reluctance to have such ports of private management. And as for the ports of Bilbao and Passages, for I can understand that you want them to be covered by this law; but, as you yourself have acknowledged, we have no jurisdiction over them, with which I do not understand that it is said that, as we have no jurisdiction over them, we are against the law. Meanwhile, the rest of the Basque ports, which are many more, are not going to have the possibility of being better managed and through a law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u16	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Even this time, very brief. Mr Becerra, it is true that a few amendments tabled by your group on environmental issues have been incorporated, because we understood that this improved the law and, among other things, we understood that it did not have its reflection on laws dealing precisely with the environmental issue; therefore, we understood that it was very interesting. Not as with other amendments, which addressed issues that we understood to have their weight and importance, such as accessibility or the issue of occupational risk prevention, but that already the relevant laws had their specific section and therefore no longer made any sense to incorporate them back into this port law, as long as that law could be applied by another way, through the law dealing precisely with these issues. We therefore understand that they have been rationally rejected by that issue, not because we are against it, but because they are already reflected in other laws. As Mr Damborenea said, we were also surprised that they wanted to maintain the amendments that were being maintained by Mr Kaiak, when we were betting on direct management by the Basque public administration and, therefore, did not quite understand that maintenance. Mrs. Otamendi was talking about chiringuitos. I think the difference is substantial. And if you compare the original text with the text that is going to be adopted today, I think it has nothing to do with it and that has to be acknowledged to me. It has absolutely nothing to do with the original text with what we are going to approve today, precisely because Kaiak disappears and because the public entity under private law that is going to be dedicated to managing recreational ports, sports ports, will have specific public control, as long as they are public entities. So I don't understand where the glue is, where the problem may be. I believe that the transparency and control of management that will be done in the EKP entity will be strict and, in addition, there are instruments that will allow it; it will have direct control by the Administration; therefore, I do not see any greater glue on it. Just like what he said about the municipal representative bodies. Finally, they have no decision-making capacity, okay; but, finally, I think they have a specific section; they have tools, and they have precisely one body through which they will be able to express what their views are. And it is clear that we are talking about public spaces; they too at the municipal level will have tools that they will be able to manage and, I have no doubt that, within the interlocution between institutions and precisely through these bodies, the voice of the municipalities, of the municipalities, will be present and taken into account. Therefore, as I said in my first speech, I believe that this law, in addition to being necessary, comes after some working legislatures. I think we can welcome the fact that, as of today, Euskadi has a law of ports, which is very necessary, which will undoubtedly improve the management of our ports. And as Mr Telleria did in his first speech, I too would like to thank the People's Party for its willingness to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u19	Señores Adezza y Damborene. You know that the amendment we are holding on to Kaiak, its content, has been out of step with the irregular form – I would say – in which the amendments to the law were dealt with. You, Mr. Damborenea, know better than I do. – and he complained bitterly about this when this law was introduced in committee – that the groups supporting the Government tabled a number of amendments, and that our groups had to make amendments to a text that we already knew would be amended. The fact that we have maintained this amendment, as it has more political meaning than practical meaning. We know that we are going to lose in the vote on that amendment, but we want to make it clear that the public body of law too private that will manage the ports also could be public 100%, could also be Administration. Mr Tellería said something strange, and he comes to say that the officials go home at three o'clock. Well, what do firefighters do? What does Ertzaintza do? What does emergency personnel do? What's Zuzenean's staff doing? You're going home at 3:00? No, Mr. Telleria. There may be staff, they may have worked, there may be public workers working at other times. It does not support that argument. And without a clutch, we do believe that the Administration directly developing these functions would improve control over issues such as the award of contracts, or personnel management. But I say this is a political amendment. It is a political amendment that has no practical effect. Those that do have practical effect are the other five that we have presented and that could perfectly have ended in the final text, just as they could have ended some that the EH Bildu group presented as, for example, those of accessibility and those of transparent management of moorings. That there is another law does not mean that, by putting in this black law on white how it has to be done, there is no problem. And I am going to refer to one of our own, such as that of occupational safety, the need for the port administration to coordinate preventive activity in the field of occupational risks. The ports are one of the sites, one of the workplaces, one of the workplaces, where there is greater accidentability, precisely because it is a space in which a multitude of companies and a multitude of agents work and, as I said in my first intervention, the port of Bilbao, which is not one of the ports to which this law affects, already has two dead this year, but the port of Ondarroa, a few years ago, also had several dead. Therefore, it would not have been much more to incorporate that amendment. Just as an amendment to classify the activities, the port services, in general services not available to private companies and in operating services, which obviously could have that purpose, would not have been more appropriate. Nothing would have happened to do it. Obviously, our position is going to be contrary, precisely because it could have been a better law and it has not been. Of course, of course, I am pleased that we have been able to introduce the issue of climate change into the content of the law, but it was an oblivion that could really have worrying consequences for the future. Because we are already seeing in the Basque ports what is the effect, many times, of the increasingly strong storms and, obviously, it was necessary to give instruments or tools to the Government in order to be able to act in this matter with greater agility. I am the first one to welcome the fact that they have accepted these amendments; but, as they have, they could have taken on others without any problems. Obviously, this is not going to lead us to break relationships either, but at least to be recorded. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EHG team, Madam Olivet, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u21	Thank you. I think I've said so well, Mr. François de Becerra has explained it: I have wished to mention to-day two corrections in a context or in a context, and the one in Cairo's request was to disappear, and, of course, Mr. Telllería, I shall not begin to explain what the Becera said, but it was the result of this awkward transition of your law to keep them so. We couldn't make up our minds, change the relevant corrections, the transfer of the law, and so please don't come with the poor arguments on the table. The dock says Kai was in the law, and we had to correct it. Of course, he refers EKP, of course, to the public institution of private right, which is now due to your amendment. And so I began to say: I don't know whether you didn't understand me or didn't understand me; I don't know, but that's what I started telling you. And Mr. Damborene, of course... And I've mentioned this also, I know that you don't hear me either, but I've said so too. We acknowledge that in the law, in this law which now remains, it has been improved, in a certain aspect, by a public society which existed, becomes a public institution, becomes a public institution, a public institution of private law, which, of course, produces a improvement. But I still don't think it's enough. And as Mr. Becerra has said well, Mr. Tellegio, please don't tell me that, because the public services can be offered at the end of the week, at night or at any hour-I won't get mixed up with it again, you know better than I do, that's the way I do. If the will were so, it could govern itself with our own resources, directly from the public administration. And this is what we prefer; that is what we blame ourselves for, and that is why we have brought them, and have reserved as I have said, so many other corrections, which are connected with the same correction and correction, that is to say, whenever Cairo is mentioned, they demand the removal of the docks. That was the only purpose. From the other I have also said that I have made an argument about what we have wished to speak of, or which we intend to discuss, and which I think I have succeeded, because you have all mentioned it was the question of rights. I know that this correction produced nothing practically, because unfortunately at this moment our two most important ports, the harbours of Bilbo and Paseia are beyond our reach. The only thing we wanted was to look upon the law, or ask it expressly, because it is one thing to declare, as Mr. Telllería said, "We alter," "We continue to proclaim it"; but, in fact, it is not enough to declare it. It is 36 years since the first ports were transferred: it is not so difficult that we should have handled those ports. Dispensing is not enough; it is necessary to demand, to demand. And, according to the last interviews, some of the rights seem to be transferred, some of the rights marked by the priority, in a short time; There's a little thing that bothers me very much: and for what I have read it, we shall ask the Government, which is so far above, the port of Pasadena, which has an immediate priority. There is nothing to be said about Bilbo, and we all know what the most important harbour in our sea-land is, I should say more, the most important harbour in the Biscarian Gulf, because of his enormous economic influence. It's just to see how the Pasadena developed in the past few years and how the Bilbo developed. So I don't think it's any good for our country to do anything that's just passing over to Pasadena, I don't think. Well, we'll still talk about it, because I didn't work too much on it, and I'm just talking about a new one that I read yesterday. And when I say this, I shall finish it as I began: I mean that we see this law as necessary, but we do not see many articles which have been received; so that we shall vote against the articles which we have not received, and in the rest we shall appeal to abstinence. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u22	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u23	Eskerrik asko. No, I'm not bringing anything new, and I'm going to be brief. What will someone bring who, up to the 10 years of his life, the only port he knew was that of Deskarga? So, no... In any case, of course, I have understood that the amendments they maintain from Kaiak could really refer to EKP, but it is a voluntary effort. If Kaiak was the body that appears in the original text of the law, but throughout the presentation disappears, the meaning of Kaiak's amendment decays. Formally speaking, decay. Point. Another thing is that from an aspect of political will, because you keep it politically, I also politically respond to it, but formally it doesn't make any sense that a law that doesn't refer to a thing called Kaiak retains 10 amendments that refer to Kaiak. It's just that it's a nonsense. But, well... And in any case, Mr Becerra and Mrs Otamendi, basically, the amendments they maintain relate to generic laws, occupational health, administrative sanctioning power or accessibility, which they want to be reflected here. You're welcome! They are where they are, and here it is simply remembered that they have to be applied; they do not have to be rescheduled. That's why we rejected them. It does not have any powerful content to reject them or not, because those amendments that you have are already legislated. They are already registered in other laws. I have spoken of timetables – by the way, speaking of EKP, I have spoken of timetables – but also of services. You have referred to rare times and services in general emergency, emergency and emergency care to the citizen. A festival, a rowing race, is neither urgent nor anything; it is another service. I said they look like hotel services. I don't know. Aren't there some Gipuzkoa municipalities ruled by EH Bildu that have a public company to manage garbage? They will find it more reasonable to have it in the form of a public enterprise. Well, it seems reasonable to us. Look, a public enterprise, as Mr Damborenea has said, is easily privatisable. A public entity impossible to privatize. Well, this model of agility has been used, not for the timetables, which are also important, but for the type of services that are provided. That's what you've been trying to do. I am definitely left with one thing: the amendments that have been maintained at the end for this full of the law, being few, in substance, even if they maintain them by a political criterion, means... If you read carefully – someone outside this Chamber – the law and the amendments, you are left with "this" to approve and simply will not approve it because you do not want to approve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. Tickets and everything's ready. They vote together, with the subsidies reserved by the Podemos, the articles of judgment, except the 14th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u25	So, they're not accepting reserved corrections. It's a vote for the 14th booked by the Podemos team together. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 46; white, 0; abstain, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u26	So they weren't allowed 14th. Correction. They vote together for the reconnaissance of the EH teams, which are made for the articles of judgment, 157. Except for correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u27	So the corrections are not accepted. Article 157 reserved for the EH collect teams is posted to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 57; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u28	So, correction is not accepted. The articles of transcripts, which correct one another, that is, of 1,3 to 5, 12, 23 to 31, 36,66, 72, and second regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u29	So the corrections have been accepted. Next, they vote together the following articles which have not been corrected in judgment: There'll be two teams here. First group: 9, 10, 14, 32, 33, 37, 71, and fifth regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u30	So the articles we've mentioned have been accepted. Next, another team. The following articles which have not been corrected at the same time are put to the vote: 2, 6 to 8, 11, 13, 15 to 22, 34, 35, 38 to 65, 73, 74, third extra regulations, 1, 2, 3, 4. Easary regulations, regulator, and first, third, third, and fourth regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u31	So the articles we've mentioned have been accepted. The reconnaissances of the EH teams are placed together on the vote, he said. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u32	So they didn't accept it. After that, the explanation is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u33	So the explanation remains accepted. The name of the law is next and final. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 3. White, 0; Abstations, 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u34	So the name of the law is accepted. So the Sea Transport Act is approved. Second point on the subject list: "Exquisite of the Education Committee, made on the bill of law that changes the October 28th of the Basque School Council, 13/1988. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No. Mr Barrio, representative of the Basque Popular, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u35	Thank you, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Representatives also of the cooperatives that visit us, good morning to all. Well, I will be brief; my group presented, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, the bill that will become law today, in relation to the presence of educational cooperatives in the school councils of Euskadi. After the contacts with the sector and, of course, our intention in the search for promotion and representativeness in the visibility of the social economy and its importance, because it was quite clear that this proposal of law was obliged and, of course, took longer than the bill, but in any case, today we will recover the lost time. The objective is fulfilled: the school councils of Euskadi, that is, the school council of Euskadi and the three territorial councils, that of Álava, that of Bizkaia and that of Gipuzkoa, have seen - they will see - their composition enriched, with the presence of the educational cooperatives, of the representatives of the educational cooperatives. There was an absence, there was an insufficiency; education cooperatives were not represented on these school boards, and this new law will solve that absence. And why? Here are the data: the cooperative educational offer in the Basque Country is 36% of the offer of the concerted network, 17% if we take into account the entire non-university Basque education system, that is, public and concerted. Very relevant data. We can also talk about what they can be. –this data is from last year – more than 82 educational cooperatives, with a total of 72,847 pupils, more than 6,000 jobs between teachers, workers and non-teacher staff; many parent partners in these educational cooperatives. In other words, knowing the weight of educational cooperatives in the Basque educational system and after these contacts and the identification of this need, we were able to present this initiative, which was, of course, also accepted by the Government, through the criterion it expressed, which was taken into consideration, which was also amended and which has been enriched with contributions that have also had significance in the final text. In other words, the council and school councils of Euskadi are further enriched, not only by the presence of a representative of the educational cooperatives belonging to the Federation of Cooperatives of Majority Education, but also by the presentation and commission procedure, with another type of person who will also represent educational interests: a person representing the Federation of Associations of Directors and Directors of Public Centres, both on the Euskadi School Council and on the Territorial School Councils. And also at the Basque School Council one or one representative of the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, belonging to one of the educational faculties designated by the Council of the Government of the UPV-EHU. That is to say, to what was our initial initiative of the presence of educational cooperatives in the school councils of Euskadi, other needs have been added that the parliamentary groups have identified; they have enriched this proposal of law; they will enrich the composition of the school councils and, in this sense, we consider that it is a step forward to cover this insufficiency, this absence. In this regard, there is no doubt that, as authors of the initiative and in assuming the enrichment of the initiative with the contributions of the parliamentary groups, we will vote in favour of this initiative and, of course, we also congratulate the educational cooperatives on this new path within the school councils. It will certainly be very constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists are going to vote. Together Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, is voting. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u37	Good morning, everyone. This change of the Council of Euskadicals will be rejected. We're really glad to be an emissary member of the community, the directors of public schools, and the University of the Basque Country. I say honestly, we're very glad, and our team did it for him too. But it was a pity to confine the change to this law alone, namely, to complete it. And even limited to completion, it might have been a deeper change, and change might have been more adapted to the times, which is not. We've lost a good chance to adapt the law of 1988 to the new times, because we're talking about the '88 law, we've lost a pretty chance to make the Basque Board dynamic, functional, vital, effective. For, unfortunately, from years to years, for reasons and others, he has become a bureaucratic means of government, and his participation has been lost in the way. The councils are of different degrees: the one is the EE-rate, the other of the Countries, and the other of the peoples. The only thing that can be said is to see the country and the villages are deactivated. So these advice has unfortunately ceased to play the part which ought to be played in the community, and has declined the role of education beyond school. If we take the law of 88, if we accept the change of law to be accepted today, if we make a text afterwards, the law will unfortunately be out of date. The law will grow old, not only from education, but also from language view. See how the law is quoted from the terminology view. We don't understand why, once the power has been formed, it doesn't take advantage to review, update, education, language view, legal view. We had a nice choice for that, considering what challenges we have, because the theory is that we're supposed to have a formal educational law. Look at the papers the council can play, the EAE, and the rest. Just to see what the results of yesterday's diagnosis have been. You're not going to tell me we don't have any challenges, and that's what an instrument like that can play, right? Our team introduced corrections, and it was accepted only by the amendments of the law which has changed. So we introduced another bill of law, which, taking advantage, was open to spread the whole discussion, to do the whole revision, but we didn't have any success. We're in 2017. Look how much society has changed since 88 and the School Council has not changed and has not all its potentiality to be. Remember that the organ of education is the highest member of it. Our object was to enrich the discussion, to open it, but we didn't succeed. And what exactly was it we were looking for? In short, what we were seeking was to contest the Basque School Council, as the law student chooses, the President of the Basque Council, the President of the Basque Council, or the Chief Director of Countries, among the members of the United States. What we were looking for was also to activate the national and local lectures. What we were looking for was to open the involvement, not just the managers of the Building and Public School, or the University of the Basque Country, but the delegation to get that integrated view of education. We suggested that the Euscalia, the Esecration, the Representative of the Medical Department, are also representatives of the genus, the language view, in order to acquire the manners of a healthy life. That's why we wanted to have a different delegation at the School Council. We proposed, considering what future challenges are, and what has already passed us, in the functions and ends of the School Council, the equality, the inclussion, the variety, the formation of professors, the human resources of schools... To penetrate into these ends too, and to determine them more, because we all saw that there are keys in them. We planned to continue the execution of the advice and recommendations made by the School Council to the Government, and to make an annual report, such as the School of Navarre, which is realism and pragmatism, and actually becoming an effective instrument. That's what we were looking for, too. We also planned the view of the people to become the organ which will have to be open to the nationality. For the right question: you see, the rest of the state's lectures are connected with each other, and are sufficiently connected. What about our High School Council? Does he have any relationship? What's the connection with the other councils? We planned a lot of considerations, but it couldn't be, it's got to be someone else. The discussion alone has been confined to the completion, and this has been too limited, but I wish to end my discussion in a positive and proposed way, and to see if it is not so long to open, open, and give about all this reflection and dispute. Meanwhile, the co-operative congratulations, the directors of public schools, congratulations to the University of the Basque Country, and to see if we can all be happy next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians to vote. In the turn of the answers, Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u39	Yes, very briefly in order, in fact, to manifest the qualitative importance of this law. That is to say, I invite Mrs Ubera to make a final reflection and vote in favour; that is, none of the arguments of the non-assumption of other types of amendments that her group has put forward prevent her group from agreeing with the approach of the law; that is, with strengthening, with enrichment... the school councils, with the presence of educational cooperatives, in addition to the university, the faculty of education or the directors and directors of schools. I mean, I think that's the fundamental element, the key. It was the initial objective of the initiative presented by the People's Group. It is clear that there are elements that have been put on the table by the EH Bildu group, which must certainly be analysed and that they can be analysed in the future, if they announce new educational regulations, new debates on education in the House, as it will be a good time perhaps to make a general approach. But I also disagree with the obsolescence of laws, even if they are 80 and so many. In that sense, I believe that there is nothing more to see than the composition of the School Council. It is a broad composition; it has now been enriched: it has been nourished with more capacity for effectiveness and effectiveness. I believe that, in that sense, we have made a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Ubera, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u41	Yes, can you hear it? Very briefly to answer Mr. Barrio, with your permission, Mrs. President. We seem to think education isn't for the parishes right now, right? The results that continually come out of sight, and the constancy on the table. It seems to us that our work and our work must be done with another depth. We think it's sad to say, unfortunately, that for the last few years he's working in a very small way and that we've lost another chance... We've had a nice opportunity to update an 88 law. It has not been taken advantage of; it has made a very punctual change, so we are faced with a lost opportunity, although we have a few winners and we're glad for them. But in the opinion of our party, it is not enough that our society, our fellow-citizens, our students, and our educational systems require other answers at the moment, and that it is the time to act carefully, and not partyly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. We're going to vote. The corrections made by the EH Collecters are placed at the vote: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u43	So the corrections are not accepted. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 57; opponents 17. Whites, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u44	So the articles are accepted. The last regulation is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 57; opponents 17. Whites, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u45	So the last regulation has been accepted. In fine, the explanation and the name of the law are made to vote together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 56; rivals, 17; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u46	So they're accepted. The 13/1988 law of the Basque School Council, which is the 28th of October, has therefore been admitted to change the law. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u47	Gracias, president. This law, which we are amending today, is a law by which consultation, participation and advisory bodies were established for the non-university education programme. And it was configured as a senior consultative body for participation. It is composed of a main function, and that is that of participation, that of all sectors of the educational community. And now we have discussed the consideration of the amendment of this law, on the proposal in this case of the People's Group, in the plenary of April 2017, and we logically vote in favour of this amendment. This law, which we have voted on, updates the current configuration of both the Euskadi School Council and the Territorial School Councils. This change is made at the request of the cooperatives, the cooperative movement, because they were not represented in this law, they were not part of the Euskadi School Council, and with this change they are included, which was also, of course, the main object of the proposing group. We understood at the time – and we continue to understand – that this inclusion is appropriate and also very convenient, because the educational cooperatives of Euskadi represent a very high percentage of our educational system and it is, at least, strange that they were not included, when it is a movement that brings together many educational institutions. With this change, that situation has been corrected, and that is why they must be represented, because they are, of course, part of our education. It is a substantial improvement, because it helps to improve the school councils themselves, and in turn it plays a dual role, and it is to enrich and strengthen the education system. It also includes a representation of the associations of directors and directors of non-university public institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It has also been used to update the bodies responsible for the appointment of representatives of the educational powers of the UPV by the Governing Council and, where appropriate, the appointment of the four persons of recognized prestige, who will be, in this case, the adviser or adviser who holds such competence and who at the moment designates them. And finally, the gender perspective has also been introduced – and is not insignificant – in the drafting. All these changes are aimed at the correct drafting of the law and its updating and at encouraging the participation of educational agents. Because for this purpose, this law was created, to give voice to the agents of the educational community and to enable their knowledge, contributions and proposals to help improve the Basque educational system. The law regulates the right to participation and responsibility of all educational agents who make up the system, thus ensuring the management and control of the centres. It had a very definite object, which was to include the cooperative movement within the members of the council, and it has been fully achieved, despite the fact that other parties were asking for other different criteria. We are pleased that there has been a broad agreement, which is ultimately what it was about, and it has been achieved and used to improve the participation of the elements, leaving a more balanced and proportional representation, which leads to an adequate representation of all sectors. An effort has been made – and, to a large extent, has been made – to bring about a rapprochement, especially with the parliamentary group of the People's Party. In other cases, the attempt at approximation seems to have not done so much, but we are left with the positive side, and that is that a timely, appropriate and necessary modification has been made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u49	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The proposed law amending Act No. 13/1988 of 28 October 1988 on the School Councils of Euskadi has been adopted. One amendment, which we have already commented on in its consideration, seems to us insufficient, but with which we agree. And we have therefore voted in favour. We believe that, although insufficient, it is a further step, especially with regard to introducing gender-sensitive wording. The amendment of Law 13/1988 of 28 October of the School Councils of Euskadi is initiated on the proposal of the People's Party, who proposed an amendment of two specific articles of the law: articles 11 and 22. Two articles concerning the increase in representation, and I quote literally: "A representative of educational cooperatives". For us, this proposed amendment did not specify which specific educational cooperatives were concerned, so, in order to achieve and avoid imbalances based on representations in the Basque School Council, we proposed the incorporation of a person representing the associations of directors and directors of non-university public institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, i.e. the Federation of Associations of Directors and Directors of Public Centres, EHIZE. In the same speech, we also discussed the amendments tabled by EH Bildu, with which we were in favour, and our amendment was accepted. That said, and as we have said so many times before, in Elkarrekin We may not conceive educational policies that do not count on the active and real participation of the educational community. At present, we have the School Council as the higher body for the participation of the social sectors involved in the general programming of non-university education, consultation and advice on the draft laws, general provisions and regulations proposed by the Basque Government. However, we believe that this framework of participation is obsolete and needs profound change. We believe that these changes that we approve today are positive but not sufficient. The Euskadi School Councils Act is 1988 and we believe that it is not enough to amend, but rather a complete remodelling of the law, with a clear aim of ensuring that the participation of the Euskadi School Councils is real and effective. Fortunately, the proposal of the People's Party to amend Law 13/1988 of 28 October of the School Councils of Euskadi has enabled us to reflect on one of the aspects that should be of priority in the Basque educational agenda: the real and effective and active participation of the educational community, even more so when we are in the process of drafting a new Basque education law. And this whole process has led us to ask ourselves: does the integration of the sectors involved in a higher body of participation really ensure active and effective real participation? Is the Euskadi School Council a real participation body? What does the Standing Committee have to do with the decisions that are taken? And more importantly, even if it does, what kind of participation are we talking about? For us, participation should not be one-way; it is not asking what I want; it is not having the right answer; it is not asking for opinion or advice or just answering questions. Participation is not a make-up; it is not a political maneuver; it is not manipulation, and it is not an instrumentalization of citizenship for partisan motives. Participation requires conversation, opinions, contrasts... It's not an end, it's a means. But it's not just a means either; it's a philosophy. Participation is not a final result; it is a process. It's not an objective; it's the way we get to that goal, and it's not for citizenship, it's with citizenship. Participation is a right and a duty. All people have to be able to participate and be an active part of the public decisions that affect them. You learn to participate and you have to train. Participation is complicated; it involves commitment and trust on the part of all parties, but, above all, participation is an attitude, and it is not only a matter of increasing representation. In short, we have voted in favour of this amendment to the current school council law, but we insist that it is necessary to rethink the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u51	Thank you, Chief, and good morning to all. As we had said, when we agreed to accept the legal proposition, or whether we did not discuss it, we had seen it from the beginning, together with the other members of the Council of the School, to make room for the co-operatives, adding the delegates. For the co-operatives and co-operative movements of co-operatives have long been firmly rooted in society, in general, and in certain definite sectors, and others in discipline. That's why we thought the co-operatives also represented in the High School to be more photography of the Esscal educational system, would be helpful. If we have added the representative of the Cooperatives, not only as a member of the community, we will give the delegation and the voice of many other things and projects which are included in other networks or associations. Under correction, he made other contributions to introduce our legislative groups into the same article: We proposed, on the one hand, to add a representative of the Directors of public schools outside the university, and from the point of view of the genus, we proposed to make several adaptations, as well as to the present official nomination of certain institutions. We have been able to arrive at some and others' contributions to the agreement that has been received in their judgment. On the one hand, together with the Podemos team, we've made the middle-class community, so that in the High School Council there's also a representative of the board of directors of public schools outside the university. It seems important to us, because the directors of the schools are agents who have a great experience and responsibility in the educational community. On the other hand, we thought it natural and logical that the representative of the Basque Country University should be a member of the profession of education, so that we have also acquired the prejudication of this duty. As for the rights of the meeting for today's discussion, the representative of the workers at the School Council is important to us, and if we're involved, why isn't it compatible with the patricians? Why do you want to fire the Patronal representatives? It doesn't mean that the others should be removed, and that's why we didn't agree with your proposal. On the other hand, it was proposed to prevent the representatives of a number of organizations in some corrections. We want a board that will be active and effective, and it's impossible to include so many organizations and representatives. To make the Council so wide would cause it to lose itself lightly, and I think it is no one's object. As for the other questions and disputes which have been proposed, we do not close the doors to other disputes, but we do not think this was the time. There is a process of reflection which aims at obtaining an arrangement in education. On Tuesday he agreed to make a document of the state council's agreement, and now it's a question of making his contribution, and trying to make an educational law. And if the compact were to be cultivated and to agree with the law, there ought to be added to that which is foreseen in that law several other matters which are to follow, and others to the Council of the School, which is able to speak of its characters, its constitution, its actions, its deficiencies. Then we'll have a chance to do everything about it. This wasn't, we thought, the moment, and that's the position and vote we've kept up so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u52	Thank you, Mrs. News. Third point in theme list: "The inscription of the HUD of Education, written on the bill of law of the profession of the Esunomical Fertilism of the Esquire. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board wish to represent the target or the target? Mrs. Bengoche, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. President, President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, brings us today the final adoption of the Basque Vocational Training Act. And, actually, in addition to announcing our vote in favour, I want to say that it is a pride and a joy. And why is that? Because we're talking about something that's a success story. Education is a very complex issue, on which we often fail to achieve the goals we want, and on these goals and the ways to achieve them we have heated debates. But, in the case of Vocational Training, what I believe we all agree is that we may rush to call it a success story, because logically this is prolonged in the future, but it is probably the education branch that we can be more satisfied with. We have very good vocational training in Euskadi. The implementation of the dual specialty, of the Dual Vocational Training, is achieving more than 90% employability, and the satisfaction and, above all, the prestige it is taking – it has always had it in Euskadi; but, above all, with these results it is taking among us – is something truly valuable. Moreover, it is a prestige based not only on employability, but on economic outflows. It is well known today that people who leave vocational training and get a job can have a much higher economic remuneration than others who leave higher education. With which, it is a pride today that we are dealing with this. I shall now deal with the amendments. The amendments we have tabled have all been accepted, some with some modification, some with some logical compromise, but they have never harmed the spirit with which we presented them. And let me tell you about them. We have made a change to Article 3, because vocational training, like any other training, must be inclusive; then, we have asked – and it has been accepted – that it be accepted that it be included as objectives of vocational training, people with difficulties of socio-occupational integration, including persons with disabilities. We need an inclusive FP. And look, let me give you a data. I know that the numbers vary between those who run the counseling and those who run our group, but they vary very little: At present there are 8,000 pupils – according to our figures – who have learning difficulties or obstacles to learning in Euskadi. Among them, about 2,000 – which is the example I'm going to give you – are people with Down syndrome. Talking to members of parents' associations of people with Down syndrome, they were running out of professional exits. And, for example, they were telling us: look, there is a professional way out that our sons and daughters can cover perfectly, that has demand, but to which they struggle to reach, that is everything related to tourism and the care of hotels and hotel rooms: cleaning rooms, making beds, preparing... That whole world. And they see that they don't have titles to believe for it. I give you this example of how important it is that those 2,000 students who currently, according to our numbers, have Down syndrome – I'm not going to say suffer, I'm going to say have Down syndrome – can, through FP, accredit themselves to get a decent job. We have also made an amendment to Article 12, which is very important to us too. Look, in the rest of the education we are always with the discussion, with the debate, concerted-public. It accompanies us throughout all the legislatures and all the discussions. But in Vocational Training it is where it makes less sense. And let me explain to you how our group sees it. Vocational Training, unlike other educational stages, does not have a single curriculum: it does not. It is that one in Vocational Training can go from training as an administrative, to dedicated to hairdressing and aesthetics, to being computer programmer, welder, boiler, handling robots, dedicated to the mechanics of the car... That is to say, the specialties are so many that here there is no place for us to talk about public and concerted, rather there is a place for us to talk about which centers give what titles and what other centers give other titles. Because the spectrum is huge. Huge! We can talk, when the curricula are the same, about that fundamental difference between concerted and public. Or, when I say fundamental difference, what some see as fundamental... But in the FP it is drawn: the important thing is that it is an administrative school, or that it is an aesthetic school, or that it is an automotive school, or something like that. So – it is not going to give me time to read all the amendments, as I see it – in Article 12, we have made an amendment, which is very important, which is to introduce the contract-programme to finance those agreed centres. Why? Because if they enter regular consultation, in other types of education, all the steps that need to be taken to truly get funding, they are so late that they make the course very difficult to tackle. With a contract-programme, that funding, which is the same – it's not about putting more – they're going to receive it from the start of the delivery, so they're going to be able to work a lot better. And this is fundamental, above all, in dual formation. We have also asked that vocational training centres, all of them, be represented, with voice and vote, on the Basque Vocational Training Council. Because Vocational Training is one of the educational areas where there is really less chance of ideological debate. All debates are often practical; then, we have asked you to have a voice and vote. We have also called for improvements in the training of the English language in the teaching staff of FP centres. Why? Look, and here I'm going to spread out even though it consumes all the time: Yesterday we had the presentation of the results of the Basque Evaluation Institute, IVEI, in the Committee on Education, presented to us by the Counsellor. And there is one fact that has reaffirmed us so much in our position that we want to put it of relevance. You know that of the families with the lowest ISEC – and I remember that ISEC is the socio-economic cultural index – 8 years ago, only 18% of them devoted part of their scarce resources to extracurricular education in English. And from that, in 2017, 47% of families with the lowest ISEC, with the lowest socio-economic cultural index, have taken their children to extra-school classes in English. What does that mean? That even people with fewer resources are aware that English is a tool for the future, an indispensable tool. And almost half of them – I said 47%, 45% – devote some of their very scarce resources to extracurricular English training for their children. And that is why we again attach that importance here to English in our amendments. Then we have asked, and so we have agreed to create the Integrated Centre for Distance Training, with which there are other amendments to change the Law on Long Life Learning, so that they do not conflict, so that they do not conflict. And I will take advantage of the last few seconds, in the paragraph that we have added to the explanatory statement, which reads as follows: "It is necessary to continue to work to ensure the right to education and equal opportunities for groups with greater employability difficulties, in particular persons with disabilities and persons at risk of exclusion." This FP can say – this FP law – is an inclusive FP law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours. Mr. PASTOR GARRIDO: Gracias, president. This proposal for a law on vocational training presented by both the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group is aimed at regulating and managing the Basque system of vocational training, in order to respond to the needs of society and the Basque production system; it also adjusts to the transformations, through a knowledge-based economy. Vocational Training is still far from having the social prestige it should have. And for socialists the development of this law is a strategic bet. The Spanish Government has also made special mention of very careful attention to vocational training, because it must be more connected with the business world, and unfortunately it is still far from converging with Europe's education and training systems. For this reason, we have proposed to adapt this rule, in accordance with the Law on Vocational Training of the Basque Country, so that this education system is open to social change and is an integrator of the education system and employment. Because progress in vocational training is progress in European construction, it is giving quality to our education system and, in the face of the economic crisis and unemployment, it is the best answer we can give. Unite education and employment. Building a knowledge-based economy is the greatest challenge we face. Moving towards Europe's 2020 strategy: sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. We live in a society where the unemployment rate among young people is particularly high. Society, especially Basque, continues to grow old and we must come up with solutions. Because the forecasts for 2020 announce a high level of demand for high-skilled jobs and a decline in the demand for low-skilled jobs. Improving people's employability requires new mechanisms and strategies, because, on the one hand, we come from a job-oriented training system, which is also needed and will continue to be needed, and, on the other, a job focused on the professional field is needed. We must therefore work to provide solutions to these scenarios that arise from a transformation of companies and demands, and from a change in the productive model, because workers must adapt quickly, if they do not want to lose the train of these future challenges. We face a challenge of the employability of people and the competitiveness of businesses, and the right to education and equal opportunities must be guaranteed, especially for those who have not had the opportunity to train and who see themselves in the most critical situations, with precarious and low-skilled jobs, the same ones that will eventually disappear in the society that is already being glimpsed. To contribute to competitiveness, we must be able to respond quickly to the demands of the productive sectors and the business fabric. And not only that, but we must anticipate their needs, because here many factors come into play and we must combine them: European societies, the ageing of society, the high rate of youth unemployment, the ashes that left the crisis, the needs of the productive world, the high life expectancy and a continuing need for training. And for this, vocational training is a key factor, while it is an engine of economic development. And it is not new that, for socialists, Vocational Training has always been very important and one of our policies and axes of action. And proof of this is the adoption of Law 1/2013, of 10 October, on Long Life Learning, and this has been a point of reference. It is a law that has been developed with all educational agents. We have focused on the characteristics that we were most concerned about, such as the improvement of vocational training that prepares students in a comprehensive way and allows them to successfully access the labour market. It regulates vocational training in order to adapt it to the new needs and to the new times and to the new demands made by companies and Basque society, which combines the approximation of supply to the productive world. This knowledge society requires a vocational training that is configured as a real lifelong learning process, because it has ceased to be a pre-employment stage, and is now combined with a necessary accompaniment to cope with technological changes and productivity development. The draft law establishes a combined model of training, innovation and entrepreneurship, aimed at the preparation of people, allowing them to develop in a developed environment. In addition, it promotes Dual Vocational Training, and develops a framework of professional qualifications and specializations to respond to the employability needs that may exist in our country. They are specialized network nodes, which promote the collaborative work of FP centres. Strengthening coordination and collaboration among the various departments The Commission has also set up a steering body for vocational training, which is called a higher coordinating body, and a steering body for vocational training has been set up. integrated vocational training system to ensure the coherence of the vocational training system. It promotes the internationalization of vocational training and the promotion of foreign languages, promoting multilingual training. Because English, without a doubt, is the language of internationalization, it is the language with which to confront a changing and entrepreneurial world. It is the language that – already is – of the future, and to the socialists this seems very important to us. The impulse to English. Because moreover the impulse to English is not incompatible, nor does it present any obstacle with either of the two co-official languages. A bilingual model is established to ensure the requirements of secondary education and a system-wide evaluation model is established. As I said before, this is a very consensual law, in which different educational agents have participated and which we hope – and we are sure – that today will come forward, because we must give a boost to this teaching, not only to university education, but also to vocational training. We have tried, from the outset, to ensure that there is as much consensus as possible. We have, in fact, taken up all the amendments tabled by the People's Party. It is true that Euskal Herria Bildu proposed a different model; in fact, he presented his own draft law on Vocational Training. And one of the problems that the law created for them was that Bildu understood that he did not give enough treatment to the Basque woman. I have to say that, without the will to attack but to defend the Basque, because the socialists have always been in all the laws that have regulated it and given it the impetus, we understand that it is not incompatible to bet on English, without having to understand that this implies no attack on the Basque. And because, moreover, the demands of FP students opt for Spanish in a majority way, and Basque is not requested as the main language for professional activity, because employment and vocational training are prioritized above the domain of languages. It seems to us that it is a reductionist view of the law, that the goodness or evil of a law cannot be judged solely on the basis of the impulse given to a given language – in this case, the Basque language – because we understand that there are much more relevant aspects, such as training workers in knowledge and skills, so that they can face the world of work and the demands of the productive fabric. On the part of the Group of the European People's Party, I believe that we have tried to make an important effort to approach positions in order to reach agreements, to fuck some, to accept others. It is clear that we have not succeeded, because they present an amendment in its entirety, and we regret it. Even so, we appreciate the efforts made by all groups, and we understand that this is an important and paramount law, which needs to go ahead and which the Socialists, in particular, are satisfied with.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u56	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Today we have a discussion about the Educational profession on the table. The importance of this law has also been shown, but I mean in a sense that this law has been hurried, as is said in Spanish, in order to enter this last plunciad. And unfortunately it will not be our protection, though we acknowledge the importance of this law. From our group I speak with indifference, and I believe that we have done a great deal of work with the rights before the power, and also in the power, with the educational world, with unions, with teams for the inclusion, with experts, and so on. We made 71 corrections, and I think we've had an open negotiation attitude, but in the end it's not possible to make an open deal. It is true that we made two small meetings with the parties who introduced the proposition. But the first corrections were admitted, yes, almost formal corrections, and we also knew that at that moment there was an extensive agreement with the Poptular Party, and, well, the opportunity to correct them diminished at that moment. We've kept a variety of appropriations in order to explain our main lines. On the one hand, the amendments on inclusiveness. It is true that an amendment by the People's Party is accepted in this respect, but, from our group, we had reserved a number of amendments that complemented the law in this area, which was very empty in content, which included concrete measures – not a general mention, which seems to us to be even positive, but which is incomplete, and which included all the actions that, in our opinion and also in contrast to the groups working for inclusion with people with functional diversity –... It included concrete measures to be established by law, positive action measures, such as the reservation of places throughout the training offer, curricular adaptations, etc., etc. It is also a law of which, from the very beginning, both in public meetings and in private meetings, we were saying that it seemed to us to be excessively farceous and perhaps somewhat unclear, we introduced several amendments, for example, the amendment of concepts – which we have maintained at this time – that sought a certain order, to clarify, to frame, to try that it did not give rise to confusion, because we are talking about terms that appear for the first time in laws in our country. There are different terms, such as training for employment, basic skills, professional skills, professional qualifications, etc., etc., so this seemed very necessary to us; moreover, recently, many new laws are introducing these kinds of articles, which we thought can help clarify concepts. We have also introduced a number of amendments for training for employment, to ensure quality in it, which have not been collected. We amended and also discussed, both in the paper and in the negotiations, the Basque network of specialized centres. We say again here that what we know about it does not reassure us, we explain it and we expose it: this possible creation of two networks, a network of first vocational training centres and a network of second vocational training centres. And also with a very clear amendment, which was to prioritise the axis of the public vocational training network, which is not introduced. There is not a single reference in this regard. This amendment which we have made is not introduced into the law, and therefore between the Basque network of specialized centres and the non-priority of the public network, since in view of the whole of the Basque educational system, let us, from the left-wing group, distrust the true intentions of this situation. With regard to the management of the Basque vocational training system, there is one, in the end, which has been agreed on how it will be managed by the Government; that is one of the pillars of the law, but it is true that the participation of the social partners and, in particular, of the trade unions, a binding participation in the management of Basque vocational training, which is one of the amendments that we had introduced. Also with the Dual Vocational Training, which we have nothing against this vocational training and that it is true that the short-term results in terms of employability are being good, and there we have not said anything, we are also expecting a little bit of how this is going to develop in the future, but it is true that we have introduced that the labour inspection had to play a predominant role also in the control of the contracts of the Dual Vocational Training, and that has disappeared. It is true that, for example – and I take advantage of the fact that tomorrow we also have a debate on Europe, and we will also introduce amendments in this regard, when we talk about internationalisation – one of the amendments that enters is the human rights criterion in this area, and in that amendment, for example, we come to an agreement. Therefore, with the amendments tabled and the seven amendments accepted – some of which have been negotiated – we cannot support this law, because, as we have said before, we think that it is not up to the needs of Basque people and not even the Basque vocational training system, not even the Basque companies, because it gives up any sign of the direction of the economy. What we are talking about, and amendments that we and we had tabled in this regard, are completely out of place, and all it does is adapt to the labour market. I believe that, of course, it is necessary to adapt to the labour market, but I believe that, from the public authorities, we would have to do something about the direction in which we want to take our productive system. And obviously, the Vocational Training Act is not just going to be the one to do it, but... Then we had a terminological debate, almost of the few we've had, but in the Euskadi... The motto of the government, and it speaks on many occasions; in many announcements we speak of the 'Euskadi of the common good'... In the law, constantly and almost article-by-article, there is a word that is repeated – Mr Urrutia, moreover, we have discussed that on more occasions, and we have managed to reach an agreement, except in a very concrete one – and it is the issue of competitiveness. We were making an amendment that went in the sense of the viability of our productive system, that of the viability in terms of people's labour rights and the business viability understood in a much broader sense than the sacrosanct competitiveness, which we already know what competitiveness means for workers, which is not the same as for those who make business balances. And I think it defines ideologically a law that we cannot join. And as I said at the beginning, we tried to introduce amendments that could better order, in our humble opinion, this Law on Vocational Training, which we have failed to achieve... We believe that it is a law that has certainly been left with certain loopholes as to the order and direction that vocational training is going to take in Euskadi. The Professional system has to be supported by the productive system and by the whole society. The whole priority, as I have said, must be public networks, and above all it is necessary to encourage the co-operation of the co-operation of the trade unions. Education must encourage inclubity, and in order to promote fertility, we think that formation must be encouraged and supported by its quality. For all these reasons, we cannot support the law, although we have made – well, Mr. Pastor has also made reference to it... –, we have amended with 71 amendments, some assumed, others fucked. We will point out our sense of vote, as we did in the committee; but, in a global sense, we cannot support the law. It seems to me that it has been a missed opportunity to have reached a much broader consensus among the groups as a whole. And I would like to say again that the last minute rush to put this law in the last plenary, like yesterday in the Education Committee, also does not help to make a calm reflection on vocational training or any other subject in the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u57	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u58	Good morning again. We need a law of Education, but not this law, which is established under the bondage of Spain and of the multinational nations. Euscalka is a law of escal, which will be established under the bondage of the people, and what we need... We've made an effort for it, the Basque Country has made an effort for it, but it's not possible. As the object of the community's well-being, the opportunity of making the law of Hezica, which will develop cohesion from the local development of the regions, is now lost. In the centre, the school in the core, the future of the region, cohesion, social development, the violation, the structure, the law which today is denied. Placed in the Euscali, but looking at the frame of the State, which leaves our social needs on a second plane, in order to win the projection model for the future in Confebask. It is the law which refuses to root up in the people and in local development. Beraz, Espainiako lehendabiziko Lanbide Heziketako legearen aurrean gaude, bathe ez EAEko lehendabiziko euskal Lanbide Heziketako legearen aurrean. We are not in front of the first Basque FP law, we are in front of the first state FP law, even if they want us to sell that this law starts and collects our own FP model. But this law renounces being a Basque law, as it does not make provisions for it. What is actually materialized in this law is an ambiguous framework, which leaves open the interpretations of the incumbent president, to short-termism, to the dawn of the market, without guarantees of public leadership, without taking into account the socio-economic needs of the regions. It is the first step to outsource the FP from the educational sphere, as it establishes discretionaryly that the government in charge will decide the department that will lead the Vocational Training. The right question is: the criteria will be the same, or the criteria may be the same, either guided by the Professional Education, or guided by the Industrie? And the answer is clear: No. The priorities are not the same in education or industry. They're not! So, what profession is the type of Education that this government wants to promote with this law? The cheap hand job? Or do we really want to look for people to form themselves in the right way, to provide the preparations that will be able to withstand our healthy ones at any moment? Do we just want to look at the produce network, or even the reproductive network, the kind of occupation that the guard will look at, and the public system? Instead of being the basis of the form and development of the person, it is rather a profession based on the present interests of the market that is intended to seek. And if we think so, the answer is: that is what he seeks. Of course, the law of the Educational profession ought to look at the productive net, but not only. Professional training has to take a look in the future, and it needs to know the challenges that come in the future, stabilizing the public system into the reproductive network, must look at our little and average corporations, not just the corporations with their roots, not the decision they have in other countries. The work-world is a form of many vertices, and it is therefore necessary to consider all these verticities. And in the structure of the Educational Education, it is necessary to consider all these spikes, to serve the public and permanent development, which will promote the conditions of physical labour, for if the Education of the profession does not promote the conditions of physical labour, we shall have the conditions of physical labour in the work-world? Not really. Therefore, what we need is that he should really be in favor of people, and not in the interests of a few. Education must be a tool for eascalizing the work-world. If we do not cultivate the profession, it will never be possible to sustain the sphere of labour. And unfortunately this law rejects it and does not take a step. We are not opposed to the Englishman; we have said it more than once. One must join the Basque and the Englishman, and also the Spanish. And Mr. Pastor, thank God you're not against the eucalyptic, because if you had any opposition, what would happen? We have sought inclutive education, because we all know what difficulties those who at this moment have some disorder in the Hezics of the professions ought to surmount, and in this law there is nothing to be met with, nothing at all. A universality, therefore, we find ourselves in the same state in which we stand. So, how do we build a more exclusive work world? It's impossible. We, the Basque People, have tried to place them in Educational Education. We have tried to place ourselves under the stages of a whole society of education, of education, of social development, and of economic development. And we have made a special effort in this law to obtain as much and as much harmony as possible, but it has not been possible. The government will have to explain why it wasn't possible. There has been no discussion, no negotiation, I have never been in such a poor state. Never. Never! It was a trap: Because the government had determined to make as few changes as possible in the law as possible, and was thus willing to admit, it was clear that it must be connected with the Popular Party, and that is all. It is true: The differences were obvious. It is true: we had differences in various matters. But there might also be common points, and there was a chance of finding the crossroads, but there was no political will. Our business consists in the Educational Profession, though we gave a tremendous amount of importance to the interaction of the several departments, and made the means. It's not clear where the government wants to place it. Our Professional policies determine the socialized frames of defining, and in those ruined frames it really gave the faculty of determination: the highest organ, the Basque Council of Hezik, which has been obtained by the Schools with the vote in the Ezark last, is that schools are glaucous. Much more prominent, more active, with the power of deciding in it; whereas the government puts the faculty of decision in the representatives and enterprises of the several departments. Ours, in addition to the productive network, is also accountable for the refractory, in the service of the advanced system public and reference service. Not the government. Ours is about the applied investigation, and we gave the technique a special character. Not the government. Finally, some shades have come in; but at last it has not been clear whether we are speaking of the application of innovation, or of the application of our investigation-in the muddle, it has not been made clear. Ours was in the philosophy of local development, not of the government. Ours established duties to guarantee the rights of workers and students, and gave orders to establish and create instruments and contrivances, for example, in dunagues and vets. Not the government. Ours are defined by the popular authority, and by the archiculation of the countries. Not the government. Ours is made up, not the government's. Our job is to keep the profession, not the government's. The government strengthens the youth. Ours, when they are to develop the legislative frame, is to make the law, but the law may then remain in the drawer, and the law must be developed to the government which prescribed the duty of making certain regulations: The creation of the orientation service in schools, a decree to determine the completion and procedure of the highest organ, the defining system of evaluation, in the year, the supreme organ, the rule of the council of euscal, the regulations of the duaral vets, and I can continue to cross-roads. It's just: We were prepared to share and examine our proposals with the intention of improving the law, but on the part of EAJ there has been no decency for it. At least we didn't see him. EAJ's choice has been a selfish choice and an immobilistic choice instead of a choice to make a good law out of it. So the government has made the simplest of this law, but not the best.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u60	Your Honor, Mr. President is in error, but I salute Madame the Chief of Staff, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. To build a world-based economy is the greatest challenge of Euskade in sociomy. To achieve these goals, great difficulties must be resisted: on the one hand, the high degree of unemployment, and on the other the old age of the population. One of the principal factors that ought to work is that they should not have any adequate qualifications at a high rate of unemployment, and, in the young ones, they are very connected with the education cut off. The active population has been reduced in consequence of the development of the demo. Those who have never worked, or who have only occasionally worked, are in great danger of being out of the usual trade, because of a great deal of unemployment. This is why he has a great challenge from Euskka, for, according to the predictions of 2020, it will be a very large demand for a higher profession, and he will make it evident that the work of low estimation will be done. Anyway, to change the production model is the factor that we really need to worry about. It is precisely in this respect that the changes of structure to the future competition of our companies are taking place. The consequence of these changes is that the means of contesting our companies and the preparation of the workers are in process of transforming them from the roots of a complex and doubtful environment. In this context, for the short period of time, to improve people's requirements, it will be indispensable to use a new strategy and mechanism. For example, to leave the training model taken to work and take a new pattern that had been planned for professional purposes. This change of paradigma has a person on the axis, and it encourages us to acquire and fix technical, personal, and social capacities, for these qualities will confirm the necessary valuation and functionality. In order to answer this challenge, the profession which requires Euskka must be flexible, and must be connected with the peculiar characteristics of its economy, so as to be a tool adapted to the structure and special requirements of the Basque trade, and to the changes which are to be suffered in the future. It is a question of Euskadi being able to have a vocational training system that responds in an appropriate way to the current and future challenges to which he is going to have to face, with the aim of achieving a model that will improve the employability of people and the competitiveness of companies in environments of great complexity. A law that equips Euskadi with the tools to enable it to solve the challenges posed by our productive fabric and the trends within it that point to new types of employment, which require greater preparation and specialization. For this purpose, Euskadi needs a flexible vocational training system with the capacity to adapt and fulfil its aims in a society and an economy that is constantly changing. This law seeks to regulate – and we have tried to do so from the outset – the framework within which the vocational training policies of the Basque Autonomous Community must be developed, because of their special significance in the economic system, by promoting an economy based on intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth, while at the same time enhancing the creation of stable and high-quality employment, which will enable greater social cohesion. For EAJ-PNV, the development of vocational training is a strategic bet, a key factor for employability and, at the same time, an engine of economic development, in addition to one of the main axes of the governance agreement that we have with the Socialist Group. If I had to introduce you to this law, I would tell you that the law provides a new coverage, the combined model of vocational training, which includes not only the field of integrated vocational training, but also learning in innovation applied in SMEs and active entrepreneurship in the field of vocational training. These are the three axes on which the model is based: These applied innovation learnings will be aimed at promoting concrete contributions from Vocational Training to the value chain of companies, with the aim of optimising and improving their production processes. In the learning projects of active entrepreneurship, the aim will be to promote in students the development of new skills and skills, both creative and conceptual, aimed at the promotion of entrepreneurial culture, and organized on the basis of practical experiences supported by a real activity. On the other hand, two tools are created to perform a combined pattern. First tool: calling criteria and -In order to respond to our commercial use of scientificisations. In this scope, the documents and certificates of the programmes of Eucharization will be included. The second instrument is to regulate the Euscal network of professional schools specialised in the combined model. For the effects of this law, the Euscal network of the schools of the professions specialised in the combined model will be able to form the following schools: Those who offer the Education of Education, and the Education of Employment of Education, and the Education of Government, who encourage the innovations, and encourage the culture, and the organization of action, as established in the Combined Example of Education in this Law. Two organs have been formed for everyone's management: One of them, the management of the Education, the organization, the planning, and the administrative organ, has been produced, and the design, development, the general organization, and planning of all the public policies of the Education, belongs to the administration, as well as to the educational system, as to the preparation for employment. In like manner the modification of the profession of Education demands a new system of cooperation between the agents who participate in it, and therefore the Basque Council of Education is composed: They form a profession of discipline to discuss politics, become a new organization of consent and eloquence. And to do all the things you say, you have to do four cultivated, encourage, and strengthen them. Y para materializar todoello, hemos de labor, fomenar y reforzar estos cuatro ámbitos: First area, internationalization. The internationalization of the Basque system of vocational training is another of the axes on which it seeks to influence this law in a more transcendental way. This process of internationalization is based on three different types of intervention: On the one hand, exchange programmes for teachers and students in both directions. Secondly, the provision of training activities of the Basque Vocational Training System in other countries, of particular importance in the case of Basque companies with work centres abroad. And thirdly, what could be called the exhibition of experiences of the Basque Vocational Training System to other countries, through the design and implementation of their vocational training systems, providing the knowledge and experience existing in Euskadi. Secondly, the development of Dual Vocational Training. The development of Dual Vocational Training is a strategic objective, which is fundamental to the promotion of a model of Vocational Training. The purpose of this Law is to establish the elements that make possible the development and implementation of a strong and comprehensive system of Dual Vocational Training, which includes both Initial Vocational Training and Vocational Training for Employment as well as the necessary specializations demanded by the productive fabric, in general, and the priority sectors of knowledge, in particular. The third field, the work of language, the matter of art. The language question brings a double challenge. On the one hand, it is necessary to adapt the presence of official eucalyptic languages in Hezik's Professional systems, and to settle the difficulties which have been observed in all these years. The normalized presence of Euskar on the Hezic system must be confirmed, and it will be confirmed that those who practice the preparations will manage two official languages properly. Secondly, with regard to the question of languages, vocational training is faced with the challenge of extending the knowledge of foreign languages in the professional world. In this sense, it is imperative to extend the knowledge of English generally, but also in some areas, in some cases, the learning of other languages, especially in the field of continuing training. Fourth sector, constant improvement and evaluation. For this purpose the law prescribes that it is necessary to encourage both the study and the investigation of the Educational Professional and the process of reforming and improving the Professional Systems. On the other hand, the law imposes a duty to regularly evaluate the systems of the professions, and expressly mentions the activities which compose the combined model of the Hezic professions, as well as the programmes of the Education of the Education of the Education of the Education of the Educationed regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to finish this first speech without making a reflection: we have often heard in this House that in the Basque Nationalist Party we confuse self-congratulation with pride of country. There is no self-congratulation whatsoever, but a simple observation of reality, if I say to you that, at the moment, in the field of vocational training we are at the head of Europe. And this is something that we could share as pride of country both the banks that we support the government and the banks that support the opposition. We have some excellent professionals with vision, knowledge, commitment and country awareness – some representatives think they are in the gallery today and I take the opportunity to greet them. This is an asset that we should take care of as gold in cloth and that should move towards reflection, since Vocational Training is the only area of education in which, quite unlike in other areas, there is no confrontation, but collaboration and cooperation. I sincerely believe that vocational training marks the way in which we should work and the strategies we should have for this small country to be big in Europe. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Bengochea, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us see: we have heard, in this first speech, some things that I would like to point out. I have said, in my intervention, that it is an area where ideology can have less to do, but then we have heard two groups that have intervened with great ideological burden. I believe that it does not refer so much to Vocational Training, but to how life is contemplated and what kind of coexistence one wishes to have. And, of course, it is true that, ideologically, we are very much separated. Because, let's see, when you say things like it's just about the job market, business, etc., etc., and there's another kind of professional education that goes more to the individual's satisfaction and to make it a more flexible character and that can face life with different... With these indeterminate resources, for a specific purpose that has been given to them, I believe that we are living in another world. Of course, there are many things our group is willing to incorporate from people who do not share our ideology, because we will get a richer whole. But, gentlemen, have you not realized that, let us study what we study, let us go to university, let us go to the FP and even have school failure, the aspiration of everyone living together, and our own, is to have a job? Because I am very sorry, but it is that our coexistence is made on the basis that people work, contribute and have a private life where we get rich and where, of course, we may want to gain access to other knowledge legitimately and it is legitimate to ask administrations to provide spaces where to cultivate those other personal aspirations. But education, from the practical point of view, not from the moral point of view nor from the spiritual point of view, has as one of its main purposes, to have a decent job, to obtain a decent life, where through taxes we help the rest of people who are in worse condition. I think this is the core of cohabitation. And we, at least, are there. Then let's go to something else that has been said here too. We have heard all the time about "gurea, gurea, gurea, gurea eta gurea da beare inportantea, beare inportantea, baina gure eszenatokia da mundua". Our scenario is the world, it's the world, and then, we have our small companies, our medium-sized companies, our way of doing it, ours I don't know what. Look, the Basques, historically, have always been well valued people, and have been well valued because they had something that, of course, our contributions to this law pursue, which is excellence, excellence. The objective that we must set as "gurea, gurea, gurea da, gu eszelenteak gara", that is the adjective that we must incorporate; that is why the Basques must be known, that must be our march: excellence, international excellence, which, as El Quixote said "You are a good worker and a good person because you are a vizcay." He is in El Quixote ('vizcay' at that time was a way of calling all Basques). I'm very sorry: that's what we pursue, that our distinction is excellence. And lastly, already quickly... A law cannot be a prison; a law is a confined territory, with compartments, where many initiatives can grow, but, if we try to put all desirable initiatives into a law, in fact, we are turning it into a cage. And if one day the group of EH Bildu, with the name they then have, comes to rule, which is very likely that in the future, sooner or later, they will see how they thank this law, because this law, through decrees, through normative developments, will serve them to shape the ideas you have about Vocational Training. While, if we had an absolutely narrow law, all governments – also when we govern, because I assure you that this time will come – will have their hands tied and will have to go to a change of law, which is a much more complex process. This law is an area of freedom and development, and we are proud to have cooperated in it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u63	Bengoeche was walking. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u64	Well, soon. I sincerely believe, Mrs Ubera, that Bildu's position has been very determined because you had submitted an alternative bill. Then, anything else was not going to be satisfactory to them. But it was not the Socialist Group or this Member of Parliament who said that the fundamental reason for not passing the law was that the Euskera was not properly established; you have been in public statements. Bildu's representatives in the media put that as a forceful argument to justify their rejection of the law. And, frankly, it seems disproportionate to me, because in this field, in which the main objective is the employment of people, of young people, Basque is an important objective, but it is not the most important. In addition, it seems to me an absolute misconception that you say that this must be called the'state law' of Vocational Training. Well, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: I would already like the state law to look like the Basque law of vocational training, because so far the reference that existed in vocational training throughout Spain was the Basque system of vocational training. And I think this will improve it, and I hope that we will improve it even further in the law at state level, which will be one of the priorities, right? But well, in your argument there are things that have been a little bleak for me, in short: mixing, when we are discussing a bill of Basque vocational training, concepts like Basque and territorial sovereignty, also here, seems to me a certain obsession, Mrs Ubera... "You said it; I didn't make it up. You have said it in the rostrum, and it does not seem to me that these are the elements that define the goodness or the unkindness of a bill–. In any case, I recognize that you tried, in the early days, to make an effort to approach. It is true that trying to scour the approaches to your thesis, as is reasonable; but, from the moment when in the first compasses you saw that you were not accompanied, for there was no more effort. Everything was quick, because the only time that has been spent in getting transactions has been with Podemos, who did manifest himself willing, at least in part, to take on certain proposals or certain transactions. They have not understood enough; but, well, I believe that in some way the text has been improved and, of course, our intention was to try to get closer – it is clear that it has not been enough – to some of its proposals. In any case, I say again, as I said at the beginning, that it seems to me to be a good law, that the fundamental objective is to ensure that our young people have a job adequate to their abilities and quality. And that is done, whether we like it or not, in collaboration with companies, not subject to what companies say, but obviously in collaboration with companies. In the same way that the Department of Education will also have to collaborate with the Department of Industry in designing the industrial, labour and educational future of this community, on the basis of this law. And that does not mean that Education ceases to have its proper role in the development of the law, but it is evident, when we are all filled with words about integral actions within the Government, that this is one of them, and it is something that reflects the law, and that is why it seems satisfactory to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together Podemos, Martínezion, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u66	Thank you. Well, I am not going to repeat the reasons, because I do not see Mrs Bengoechea at the moment, but the absence of ideology in itself and, of course, the Vocational Training Act that is being presented has very clear guidelines and direction. I would like to make it clear that one thing is to adapt to existing reality and to mitigate or improve people's employability conditions, and another is to give up intervention directly in the economy from the public sector, and to adapt those conditions. – it is worth redundancy – adaptations that we make so that people have better employability, that they are conditioned to an improvement in working conditions and that the training they receive throughout their life is done in quality conditions and without losing purchasing power. That is why we were also talking in one of the amendments to a vocational training programme. for a dignified life. And that's why we also introduced an amendment – I don't literally remember – so that the labour inspectorate had a leading role in controlling Dual Vocational Training. See that it was a generic thing for the government to accept that amendment, which has not been accepted, something that is the very essence of labour inspection, but we thought that since the Vocational training, as we introduced concepts and an adaptation to reality, which is the Dual FP, had to make a concrete call to the labour inspectorate to carry out its task. And, Mr Urrutia, do not confuse the principle of reality, do not confuse that we do not agree with a law, with which we are criticizing the professionals of vocational training, the students of vocational training. Don't confuse. Because, many times, when since... more than two parties of the government, when from the Basque Nationalist group – it is a concept that should be studied up to almost in the University–... the principle of reality of the Basque Nationalist Party is taken as a whole. And we're not going to accept that. We and we do not agree with the whole of this law. We have done a work of the 71 amendments and a work of negotiation, and I have recovered the series of measures that we also proposed on our part. After a meeting, which was also Mr.Arévalo at that meeting, at which we had a rather productive meeting, at which we were working the law, we also sent them seven fundamental axes on which we thought we could approach to support the law or value a general abstention from the law. And the answer was administrative silence; it was in the presentation directly when we had the answer that there was no answer. Therefore, there is no surprise in our position either. I therefore reiterate all the arguments we have put forward in the first intervention, and above all the fact that we are against this law does not mean that we are making an amendment to the whole of the Euskadi vocational training system. I say to you because there are professionals of this system in this room, and to make it clear to me that one thing is that we do not agree with this law and how it is going to order the system of vocational training, and another thing is that we are making an amendment to the totality of the work of professionals of this sector and, above all also or also, the work of the student historically in Euskadi. And also to the effort and work that the working class of this country does day by day to also adapt to that labour market, when we also renounce from the public authorities to intervene in that labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u67	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u68	Mr. Pastor. When the rest of the teams have passed through this law, pass, literally, and when you have no intention of discussing it, and when you have no intention of arguing, telling EH collect that we have placed boundaries, that we have refused to discuss, that we have not agreed, that there is really too much to do with manipulations and lies, and that you, PSE, should have swallowed up a law which was against you in the previous legislation. Lingeral! So, please... Besides, it was us... While we were waiting for the government to make a suggestion, and seeing that, when we made a proposal, we assembled EH, with the first articles, considering the contributions of different groups, considered the method, Mr. Pastor, who was the answer to the government? What was EAJ's answer? No. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then don't tell EH Bilri that the EH Collect hasn't had any will. We tried to improve the law. We've improved the law, and that's why we've made a contribution. It wasn't possible, and we have a law we have now. We don't like it; we think it can be improved, and this isn't the law that this town needs. And when we say that this law is not looked upon by our people, what we say is, that this law does not root in the countries where our people are organized, in the agents, in small companies, not. And there must be a law of Hezic profession roots, structured, netted in countries, operators, development agencies, basically the community's formation, the formation of students... This is a law of euphora, which is directed to the model of the organization of our people, in order to seek the cohesion and well-being of our people. That's it. And I do not know where the decision is, or where they are looked at, or not upon the opinions of the deputy-general; for if this law be anything, it is obscure, and has no light at all. Gives you a chance for what he wants. If then we have the pride of the people. It seems to us very well that we must be popular pride, otherwise we are at a party, but the pride of the people demands that we should get the settlements of the people. The peace of the people demands that the people should receive the legal frames which they look upon. And this does not mean that it must be in opposition to nationalization or competition. If we wish to strengthen them in the midst of the nation, if we wish to strengthen them in competition, we must strengthen the cohesion of our people and countries. And we have to get out of there. And the schools should be placed in the center. And for us, the pride of the people is this, well-rooted, with its feet well planted on the ground. Our official language prided itself on both of us, not opposed to the English, but also to the eucalyptus in the centre. And for us, the rest is not a limit, but it is not an obstacle. And if the world of labour is to remain silent, even the Education of Occupation must be maintained, and the steps must be taken, which have not hitherto been given. And we've put that on the table, with other things, with other things... But that was no objection to negotiate and agree with this law. We've put different elements on the table, that's all. You see, this law, among other things, puts private schools before public schools, okay? It opens the autonomy and their finance frame, while the public schools are more controlled. And that's just when there's a good relationship between the two Professions, when it's good, and you can work differently. This law excludes him from his hold, and urges him to his youth. This law does not take into account the petitions of the schools, because the schools themselves made demands, and placed several demands on the table, while others, more efficient than the councils of the schools, demanded that they should be more self-serious, more decisive, more precise, in order to accommodate the program and specific education to the provinces, in order to give more opportunity. They also demanded that the workers and laborers' programs should be framed for public schools, and it has not been established. And where are these programs especially given? Well, in the academy and private entities. What's going on there? So, where are we going? It's not just what we have, it's where we're going? For example, it was necessary, for example, to receive a regulation even from the faculty of the teachers, to establish a frame. He didn't get it, he didn't get it... Look, and even in nets, even when it doesn't happen here, and if they want to go forward, there's another chance of creating a single work-bag for replacements. There were several possibilities of making a really revolutionary law, and not of taking what is now, and of pushing it into a law. The legal frames are usually the reverse, don't they? Sort, properly structure the frame...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u69	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u70	...intelligent, and then starting to develop. Of course, we have a good profession, we have good professionals, but we can improve a lot and we have a lot to do. And, unfortunately, this has been a lost opportunity, when we've really had the opportunity to discuss it, to work differently, and it hasn't been done. It's not done!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have a lot to answer. I don't know if he'll give me time to answer everything. First, Mrs. Ubera said they've made special efforts. Well, what do you expect when you don't make special efforts? What have you done, Mrs. Ubera? We introduce an alternative legal proposal, a few minutes after the census of ours. Good! We're moving forward and you're back. We get to the correction plans and you dress up with a lot of partial integer corrections. We start talking to the teams, and we've talked more to you than to anyone else. Yes, more with you than with anyone else. The chief physician and the deputy physician were with you, unlike all the rest of the party, to see if the road could be opened, and there was no way out. Later on, the deputy-captain and I took another turn, and if I hadn't called the team, you'd have given us the pumpkins. I sent you a proposal on March 23, and three months, five days and three hours later, I'm still without answers. We reached the countryside, and before the week, it was only a pastime, a methodology, a very important meeting for ten or four minutes. In the Holy Week, however, we entered into articles, and round the four first articles totum revolutum. I mean, when they answer you, if you don't hear what you want, that's the end of the discussion, the agreement, the reflection, and so on. From that moment he lowered his head and took the notes. What if you vote against the articles that had no correction on the committee? That's all right, all right. But leave the hypocrites for Twitter. I don't know about that myself. But on his day I had heard of the confederations of the scholars, complaining, "las the scholars in the Critics a EH Collect por no consultarles su propuesta de ley de FP." Consejos vendo y para mí no tengo. The law you've made to Madrid is slavery to Spain. No, it's what's been done here: the foundation of the universal legislation is respected, and the next step it becomes legal. By the way, we create a special field of professions and specializations. I don't even know if you vote against it. The eucalyptic profession. Yeah, we did self-critics, and we confessed that we had to improve a lot, on the side of the profession, in the eucalyptic area. But what were your proposals? What were they? The establishment of the modules in the cradle, but with a clear contradiction; that is, it is taken from your text: "Cricks will be offered on eucalyptus, and it will be assured that they will be given in the course of their studies. In cases that don't happen... "I don't know. How does it not happen in cases like this? You didn't say he'd make sure L Heus did it. Why do we need LHeus? We have a feeling that you want to take a turn, because I don't know what interests are to protect. Local development. The development of the place is indeed favourable to our local development, but here necessity does not extend to the country, but to the persons and corporations, and they may be in the same region who have not the same wants, and who have the same wants in different districts. We appreciate that, and we want to work on it. Well, in our time, Confebask is in charge, and when he's in charge, it's obvious who's in charge... A series of patterns. There is no pattern collision, no alternative model. There is no alternative pattern, whatever it is is, and what it is is to crash and crash. And that expression called "the collision of the dead" serves you to justify and feed a confession strategy. Mr. Martinez, no hurry. Those who know me know I don't like to do things fast, no, no... And the key to doing things right, many times, is usually time, and so I could deduce one of the things that I most esteem is my time and before Holy Week in the paper I had the feeling that I was losing it. Competitiveness and viability. Look, we're going to have a dual debate and I'm going to give you a practical exercise. Let's say that you have a company and seek the viability of the company; as you are a very reasonable person, I suppose that among the factors of viability you have competitiveness. Let us say that your company is not competitive, and you remove the factor of competitiveness and challenge it to come here to a monographic debate to explain how you are still viable or how your company is still viable. Lack of ambition. Lack of perspective. He's not up to it. Hey, look, with the permission of Mr. Vice-Advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u73	Finish up, Mr. Faraway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u74	Yeah. A letter from João Santos, the head of Vocational Training in Europe: "From the beginning, we put two first names on the list: the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, because of his active role in education, and the Deputy Minister of the Basque Country. We were clear about our choice of the Basque Country, because of its strategic vision with regard to FP, its ability to shift the complete global challenges into concrete responses that FP must provide to support people and businesses and thrive in such a complex world." I don't have time. Look, just tell him two things. One, most of its 71 amendments have been semantic issues. And second, it gives me the impression that you haven't had the courage to dissociate yourself from EH Bildu, which you were told in your day in private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that we've finished our discussion, we'll go to the vote, and we'll begin with this: Together, Podemus team corrections made for the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u76	So the corrections are not accepted. They go to vote together, collect EH groups 88 and 101 corrections reserved. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u77	So the corrections are not accepted. They go to vote together with EH Collect, 93 and 102 reserved teams. Corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 18; contraries, 56; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u78	So the corrections are not accepted. At the same time, the rest of the sub-posed corrections of the EH teams, from 82 to 87, from 89 to 92, from 94 to 100 and 103. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 18; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u79	So they didn't accept it. The following articles of correction are put to the vote: 6, 7, 21, 24, 29, First Addination, and 1, 8, and 13, the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 56; rivals, 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u80	So they're accepted. The following articles of correction are put to the vote: 2, 3, 8, 20, 31, 33 to 35, the second extra regulation, and the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u81	So they're accepted. The following articles of correction are put to the vote: 1, 4, 5, 15, 22, 23, 25 to 28, 30, 32, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 the last regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u82	So they're accepted. The articles which have not been corrected at the same time in judgment, namely, the third additional regulations, the first and second vicissitative regulations, the last regulations of 9, 10, 11, and 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u83	So they're accepted. The reconnaissance of the EH Collected Groups is on the vote, as he was saying. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 18; the opposites, 46; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u84	So it's not accepted. The corrections reserved by Podemus are agreed upon together, that is to say, of the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u85	So they didn't accept it. The explanation goes to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u86	So it's accepted. And finally, the name of the law is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u87	So the name's accepted. And therefore the Law of the Educational Office of Euskal Autonomia of the Eresians is admitted. The fourth point being left for another point, the fifth point: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary laws of the Unai Ui Urzuno Golduno Group, round the stage where the alterations which have been made in the Spanish Government may spread. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Uruzuno Goldsti has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u88	Good noon, everyone. But I would like to begin with the statements that she had made on the party on the day, especially because these expressions are extremely proper to describe the political context of the present day, or the political state, because we believe that the kernel is there, and that there is an adequate starting point for the challenge to which we are to challenge her. Eta berak hala zioen: "The state model has failed, and it is broken. The starting point is to recognize the existence of two nations – Katalunia eta Euskal Herriarengatik ari da – who want to decide their future in democracy, freedom and with guarantees." Guretzat, heckle. If the starting-point is to be properly placed at this moment, and we wish to make the right way forward, this must be the starting-point for us, because it describes the proper terms of the political context. We are talking about whether a new period has been opened in Spain or not, and we believe that the words and examination of the President are useful both to spend time with or about Rajoy's government, or even to discuss the government's context at this time of Pedro Sánchezen. Why? Because this problem is structural, because it is commercial, and this commercial problem is not only modified by the change of a government. I mean, as I said, it's good for Rajoy's government and Peter Sánchez's PSOE. The question is not whether a new political period, a new political scene, has been opened in Spain or not. The right question is, what do we do here, what do we really do in the Basque Country to open up a new political situation, a new political stage? We believe in self-organization, at the moment, that's what we're talking about, and we think that's the way. Lapregunta es que que que hacemos para poder revertir este esquema volerátil de incertidumbres, nostatist y sin nngún mecanism parader impedior cualquier medica de regresión. He said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And if in this sense we judge the Government of Peter Sánchez, we shall judge for what he does, and not for his own words. And we have no difficulty in confessing, that hitherto, the expressions which have been made, or the intentions which have appeared, especially those which belong to the prison police, have come in a good direction. We have no objection, or we have no expedition, to explain that this is the case. Bath, testuinguru honetan, txaloak aurretik i order, you dugu zuhurtziaz jokatzeko denborak say it, kautelaz jokatzeko momentuak say it. Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to be missed either in dilatory games or by new talents or speeches without any consequences, and let us hope that no political actor will fall into that game for the umpteenth time. I hope dugu, EAJ, zintzoki, inor ez ertzea joko horretan engorgrenese. Kautela. Eta egiten duenarengatik jusituk dugu, egiten duenarengatik neurtuk dugu. And why do we say this? Two reasons: On the one hand Peter Sánchezek announces that his will is to remain until 2020, namely, to finish this whole succession of laws. One does not know whether it will be so, nor do we know whether it will happen, and if it is not so, whether time or time may be very limited to do what it is intended to do. And the second reason, and we think it more weighty: It's PSOE. It's PSOE. And PSOE's not new, we know a lot of him in this PSOE town. Peter Sánchez, two years ago, bargaining for miniature wallets with Albert River. We've also seen him arrive in the government, and we've also seen Zapatero come to the government. PSOE does not arrive at the government because he wins elections, he comes to the government because those who are near him do things very badly. So we don't even know how far PSOE's power is in that sense. At this moment, we see the attitude of the Basque Socialist Party as well as the attitude of Françoisautobernus for example. immobilism. The Socialist Party in Spain, we don't know anything about it, but the Basque Socialist Party doesn't acknowledge this town. The Socialist Party of Euscataia does not acknowledge this people, and therefore the right of decision which belongs to this people is still less acknowledged. Eta entzuten ari gara adierazpen batzuk: "From nationalist theology they try to impose...". Hori Idoia Mendiak is from the ear of the gutxi. Jose Antonio Pastorrek, orin de la denbora tenente gehiago: "The right to decide cannot be imposed". The right to decide cannot be imposed. Oximoron, Mr. Pastor. Oxymoron! 2005eko Kataluniako Statue, Article 1: "Cataluña is a nation". Point. It's over. It's over. Catalonia is a nation. And the rest of the articles already, plenty. Because Article 1 says Catalonia is a nation, and that no longer applies. Socialist Party. And they're proud of it. They're proud of it, that's what they did. So we don't want to play bad luck here. Again we say: wisdom and cauca. It is our present moment to answer the street and the village to what they are saying in the street. The streets are crowded. There are pensioners, there are feminists, there are the Alsatsuans, and there are thousands of thousands of people who support the right of decision. We must direct their demands. It is well to stand by them, to help them in their cries, to place them behind them, but it is well for us to go beyond them and to obey them. In order to comply with the demands of the pensioners, this country needs more economic powers. To satisfy the demands of the pensions, this people needs political means, that is, they need a proper pension system. Social right requires more political powers to guarantee those social rights which are spoken so much during the end. It's said that we have to guarantee social rights, and we also say that we need to update this self-egory. I should like to ask my friends at Podemos: What is the interval between guaranteeing social rights and updating only the current self-portrait? There is no space for us, at least there is no space. And this long list of social rights, if we really want to guarantee our long list of those social rights, there must be a necessity, my friends Podemoskos, to overcome the political peace of which you are so much concerned, to destroy, to destroy, to destroy. On the other hand, I mentioned Alsau and Irune: The usual case and the case of the rapists at Iruña. He has left the Spanish Court or the Spanish Justice in question. The Spanish Justice has shown its true character in this case, and we've been talking about it in self-organization this week. And if that is to be subverted, it will be necessary to change the legal order of the present day. In other words, only by changing the legal order of our time will it ensure that this people, unlike so far as it is, should be able to act in the same manner with the state. And right now, we say honestly, the main challenge of this people must be that, Mariano Rajoy is in the government, or Peter Sánche is in the government. We honestly believe that Pedro Sánchez does not represent an opportunity for the democratization of the state, and I have already mentioned a few reasons. The political tablet has gone so far or so far to the right, the term for the year of the eau d'Ajuda's, the origin of Ciudadans, has led the political tablet so far to the right, that the political table has been carried so far to the back and recerative positions, that we believe that at this moment a person like Pedro Sanche is an oasi, a symbol of the left. And, indeed, we doubt it. But I repeat: "Por sus haens les concereis," said one of my companions in a radio studio recently. Well, that's the message we're sending today: the challenge is to act as a people, with the transparency, sincerity, and open views of the end I have just alluded to. What for? To improve the conditions of the population and the population. And when I came to this point, I had some advice for the president. It is not, but I hope the party will send it to him: We must learn from him who does things well, and when the President is at this moment, where he announces his commission to negotiate with the two Spanish Government, one of the transfers, and then another, apparently, about the prison policy, I shall tell him that he has a mirror suitable in the North, and that in the North there is a simple thing in the North, which is not another thing in the world, but that we do not do here. And he meets with the local parties, gathers with the local corporations, gathers, collects the contributions, then go as a village, go as a spokesman to this village's diary, and then negotiate, and explain again what they've done in Madrid. It is called transparency, and we believe that at this moment it will be necessary. Por lo dot, las posiridades de un nuevo escé vanándas por lo quemos. 2020 marca como objectivo Pedro Sánchez, poder bellare 2020. In our opinion, it may take very little time to give real changes, but it may be a just time to give them a real deal of real size. This time may be 2020. But we believe, likewise, that there is a time enough for us to examine, or to verify, whether we really are in the presence of a new political period. There is at least time to prove that there is a new political will which hasn't been for years, and not only for Rajoy's government, a new political period which hasn't been there for many years. And we have here a motive which answers to this or political period of time, or to this period of time, which is here and 2020, or to this period of time. And it rests on four points, it is summed up in four points: First of all, we demand that this Chamber should be restored to the government of Pedro Sánchez, confirmed by April 12th and 19th, that the Government of Pedro Sánchez is also the Government of this Chamber of Chambers in April 12th and 1919....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u89	Finish up, Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u90	Yes, I'll finish it right away. ... that there is also the author of these agreements, in which, in six months' time, we were asked to present a work-house with the implementation of transfers, and in the second we demanded respect for what the auto-organization decided on. At the second point we ask that the democratators should take their position, which has hitherto been retrospectist and involvenists, on the other hand, a remarkable change of prison policy which we demanded in the third, to end the dispersium, and in the fourth we demanded to abolish the appeals which have been introduced to the Court of the Constitution. We believe these are the minimum of the new political stage, if we want to start talking about the new talent and the new possibilities. From that point on, as I have said, this country has other fattier challenges, which are necessarily to be made in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u92	Congressmen, ma'am, thank you. Esana da gaua ilungoa de la pounsentia etorri baino lehen, éta hori da Rajoyrekin bizi izan duguna, hala ére: gau ilun lude bat. It is often said that the night is darker before dawn, and a little bit that is what we have lived with the Rajoy government: a very long, very long night and, when it seemed that the corruptela flap did not change them, when their political outbursts seemed to have no consequences, when the most nightly authoritarianism twisted our guts, when the more narrow the uniforming rancio centralism we saw coming and when it seemed moreover that we had Rajoy for a while, because in the end the Basque Nationalist Party gave him two years of life by approving the budgets, then happened what we no longer expected, but all of us need and yearn. It happened that corruption became nauseous, it happened that a very brave judge and a judge put in writing what the citizens already knew: that the People's Party, no longer such or such leader, but that the party itself, was corrupt, that the former President of the Government had lied to Justice. And there it began to dawn, no doubt. But this dawn was not easy. He didn't come alone; he had to be pushed. And pushing it meant, first, pressing the Socialist Party to present the necessary motion of censure; pushing it meant that, when this motion was tabled, we also had to press the Basque Nationalist Party, ambering with a second motion with an immediate call for elections, because, if not, they had continued to support Rajoy and the People's Party. Pushing it meant not settling for a new president, but ensuring that a new PSOE government would not frustrate expectations and hopes for change. And this happens to be there, to make you see your numbers every day, your weakness, not to move you from the chair, but to make you look to your left and not to your right, because, after all, with 84 deputies, it depends on our 71 of the United We can, to a large extent, today's agenda is another in the Congress of Deputies. Today, at this dawn, we see that the social is taking the lead, that dialogue is opening up and that it is possible to continue taking steps in the peace process in Euskadi. When corruption had ceased, we should, on the one hand, have given a shove to PSOE, to introduce the motion, and, on the other hand, to the Jestric Party of Eutle. But it wasn't just a push to be a new president, but this new government didn't bring all the moods of change to the ground. This means that the Unidos Podemos will remind us of the necessity our deputies 71 will be a different diary. Today, at this new dawn, the social takes protagonism together with the interview, and there is a chance of improvement in the peace of our country. And this agenda is what is highlighted today in the amendment that, not by chance I believe, we have negotiated precisely the three parties that were decisive in the investiture of the new President of the Government. Today, all the political leadership is in what Basque citizenship has been claiming for months and months in the streets, in the defense of a public pension system, in the demand of real and effective equality between women and men, in denouncing macho violence. Today, too, it is possible to move towards issues that we have discussed repeatedly in this Parliament: the full implementation of our Gernika Statute and the rapprochement of prisoners or the provision of humanitarian treatment to those who are seriously ill. Protagonism osoa gaur euskal herritarek hilabete askotan eskatu dutenaren haenean dago, berdintasuna eskatuz, pentsioen defendsan eta, huta ére, Legebiltzarrean hainbat aldiz eskatu ditugun gauzen haenean: prisoner in hurbiltzean eta gure statutuaren betetzean. The truth is that this dawn, in which we all have to work so that it does not remain in a fleeting flash of clarity, leaves us a few teachings: in politics nothing can be given for sure, the strongest one can fall and be displaced by what is least expected. There are times like when the very dignity of the institutions is in question that wondering what about me is not presentable before the citizenry. And also that as soon as it's over 'the worst', which gave so much revenue to some, they've been dislocated. Now it's time to build positive. The challenge is to see how we can build a political agenda in which citizens benefit, in which everything does not revolve around the pact of interests between parties to hold on to power. That way of doing politics it's up to you to leave it behind, to corner it forever. And open another where transparency, the common good and coherence are the norm. And this I do not pose as goodism: I do not pose it as a toast to the sun; it is that there is no other. When the geometry on which a government is based is so fragile, so diverse and so plural, or it acts in keys of transparency and common good, or it does not last long. So it's better for us all to understand this as soon as possible. Orin, positiboki was the moment of, hurt the onuragarria of the agenda bat was the moment of; ez dago aukerarik beasts. Gobernu honek duen geometriarekin – anitza geometry – gardenasunean eta honor komunean pentsatuz lan egin behar da, edo ez da iraunkortasunik izango. The expectations placed by the citizenry in this new political time that opens up are very great, as long as it has been the night that we left behind. The level of demand that Pedro Sánchez's government has is very high, and, out of pure necessity, given what could happen if this does not go well, he will have to let himself be convinced, not by gestures, but by deeds. He said before that – in this case, in the Congress of Deputies, there in Madrid – this government has in United We can an ally, but that it is not an unconditional ally; on the contrary, it is a demanding ally and a committed ally. This same week, our commitment has been confirmed, paving the way for Catalonia, with the meetings that our Secretary General has held with different leaders. But it is also demanding; for that reason, just a few days ago, we have also tabled 20 measures that the Government of Pedro Sánchez will have to address, as we have today submitted a number of demands, which have already been approved and dealt with in the Basque Parliament, the Government of Pedro Sánchez will have to address. Lehen esan dudan bezala, Pedro Sánchezen Gobernuak aliatu bat badu Unido Podemosen, baina ez da baldintza gabekoa. Gure eskaerak mahai heurean jarriko ditugu. Badago gure konpromisoren adibide argi beats these Honetian Iglesiasek Katalunian izan dituen bilerekin eta, huta ére, aurkeztu ditugun 20 neuroriekin: To shield the rise of pensions, to raise non-contributory, equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave, law against the wage gap, to repeal the law of the labour law, to eliminate co-payments, to reverse cuts in education and health, or something also very topical: to close the CIEs. And in all these demands, one preoccupation prevails: the social. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u93	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u94	The PSOE is not new, Mr Urruzuno said. Of course not, Mr. Urruzuno. In fact, it is the oldest party in Spain and the oldest party in Euskadi, and we are proud of a history that has managed to develop and consolidate rights in this country, beyond any other political force. With that, you do not insult us: of course we are not new. Others are younger, but they have become old before time. Well, in any case, we understand that we are in a new time in the whole of Spain, but that it concerns us very specifically as Basque society. A new time, over all, opportunities and responsibilities, of each and every party. And that's the one we're starting to explore, so that the problems don't rot, to find solutions, because for that – and not for anything else – we're here. And we understand that the confluence of interests that supported the socialist initiative to change the government directly appeals to our party and to the group I represent, and also to those who wanted to change the political orientations in Spain. As first alluded to, the Basque Socialists took the initiative from the first minute, from our deepest commitment to the self-government that we have contributed to developing so much or more than anyone in these four decades, and from our deepest conviction that a space of coexistence must be established, a task still pending as long as there is someone on the street or in prison who continues to feel proud of a past of assassinations and threats. And he said we took the initiative. Our secretary-general transferred directly, to the people who have responsibility in each area, from the outstanding agenda in Euskadi, so that the new government of Spain would have updated those issues that we are talking about today and others that, on the other hand, know President Sánchez well. That is what we are directly responsible for as a party, because, I insist, we assume our responsibility. That's what we came to talk about, although you've come up with some kind of camouflage proposal, which says some things, but then you've talked about others. But, finally, we expected it; it didn't surprise us. From the Basque Government we share, the Lehendakari has been the first former president to be heard in Moncloa at this stage. On the same day, the Minister of Labour and Justice brought up to date the Minister of Labour on the subjects we share, and today she has done the same with the Minister of Justice. Finally, it has also been this Monday, a day when – even if there are those who do not like this figure – he has taken possession as government delegate, Jesus Loza, old acquaintance of this house, with a certain profile and recognized for his ability to reap confidence and unleash conflicts. We have, therefore, well mapped out the way to take advantage of those opportunities that are presented to us all. Aware, as we believe we must also be, that the Spanish Government has on the table our specific issues, it is true, but also others that are not specific to Euskadi, but that concern us directly with Basques and Basques. Because it concerns us as a society to correct the misdemeanours in labour rights, the misdemeanours in the protection of the right to health, the very serious misdemeanours, in the guarantee of full equality of women, the misdemeanours that have endangered the sustainability of decent public pensions... All these are not Euskadi-specific issues, but they affect us as much as the rest of Spain. All this, and even if there are in this House those who do not want these matters to depend on the decisions of the Spanish Government, Mr Urruzuno, but that is the case. What are we going to do to him! It also affects us and we also have to defend it jointly by all the parties that we support the proposal made by President Sánchez. We would be wrong if we wanted to focus only on a very specific part of our outstanding issues, because that is also urgent for us. We have told you in the self-government speech: let us focus on what unites us most, which are social rights, and not national rights, which we know divide us, but you have taken the wrong path, in our view. In any case, the Socialist Group reiterates in this plenary a position that has always been committed to the full development of the best instrument that we have ever had in our history to advance in a shared project of deep social vocation. This project, that of the Statute, has made it possible for us to count on the Economic Concert, with Osakidetza, with Lanbide, with the RGI, with the public school, with the right to housing... An unfinished project, it is true, in which all of us will also have to assume the share of blame that corresponds to us and of course ours, all of us: those who have had responsibilities in the Government of Spain, but also past attitudes of nationalism that sowed the seed of mistrust and even came to count on that path with some force that today is integrated in Elkarrekin Podemos. And by the left abertzale, which today brings back that debate, asking for accounts to another, because Bildu always asks for accounts to others, without reviewing his own account, which you also have, the one that you have to explain to the citizenry in all the years that you sought the harassment and the overthrow of that Statute of Gernika, which you now formally want to defend with this initiative. After the criticisms, which each one of us can make to others, this motion relates to something very concrete: with the new time that a majority in the Congress – which is even a wider majority in this House – comes to confirm the path that we wanted to open when we signed, in November 2016, the Euskadi governance agreement. And I say with total sincerity that we would have liked to have been understood and attended to by the previous Spanish Government what we are going to demand here today. It wasn't possible, but we already have a tour done. We have an update report on outstanding transfers, which takes into account the constitutional doctrine developed in these years. And on this safe basis is on which we want to gain in efficiency and efficiency when it comes to providing services to citizens. That's the last desire that moves us. In addition, two major transfers, more complex because of their scope, relating to prisons and the economic system of social security. Let us talk about it, because the path of dialogue, so necessary in democracy and so despised in recent years, has been restored. And we will also do so in one area, that of promoting another prison policy that fosters the ultimate goal we seek, which is that those who in their day killed assume that they should not have done so, which is what fosters their reintegration and the basis on which to build future coexistence. Therefore, it is true: there is a new time in Spain, there are new opportunities, but the well-known position that socialists have in the opposition in Euskadi and in the Government of Euskadi, in the opposition in Spain and in the Government of Spain..., is that coexistence must continue to be improved. I repeat that all this is the project that we Socialists have; it is no payment to anyone, before they tell me, by votes borrowed in the motion of censure, which is what is fed irresponsibly by those who lost the motion in the Congress of Deputies. And my group would like to take this opportunity to invite the PP expressly to join this claim and this path. To question whether the statute is being complied with is to give reason to those who have tried to overthrow it. To question another prison policy with the same legality is to question the legality and even decisions that that party, the PP, has made in the past and that we never hold to account. There is no better message that we can move citizens today that all groups support full compliance with the law and dialogue to resolve conflicts. It is the best way that we socialists believe there is to be prestige for our status and our rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u96	It's been a month ago, just about a month ago, that Congress presented a violation of censorship. And I'm telling you, why there wasn't an inquest. And this is proper to say, why the censorship, though it has a automaismism within it, is to say that Peter Sánchez had been elected president, but Pedro Sánchez presented himself before and voted for our refusal. Our negative vote was that at the moment we agreed to break Rajoy apart and give Sánchezi a new chance, but we didn't negotiate an inquest. And, yes, our five votes, yes, were indispensable and absolutely impossible to be needed in the neighborhood of non-commercitables, but your two votes were on the side of the censorship-that is to say, to give Rajoy a new opportunity. I think we ought to place the debat in it; for if we suddenly begin to examine the positions of one or the other, we know what the Socialist Party is, and we know what Peter Sánche is, why we refused him. What's going on? And that's why we've shared in this transaction, I think, the most essential themes. On the one hand, as Podemos said together, this is a reason why this society, at so many moments, has expressed its word and will in different quarters, and has expressed itself in a very clear contrast to the nicest opposites of the Potion Party; pensions, and other matters, reforms, and abuses of right. There is also a reflection of this, and also of the refusal of all these accounts expressed by the Basque Institutions, there is another reason why, that is, the majority of the people declared and insisted upon it, the blind man replied with a view to it, or not to hear it. And that reached the top, and that's where the censorship came from. What do we want in this transaction? You also say something like this: The maintenance of the state, the state which is not now to be fulfilled. A week ago, when I asked the President the question, I admitted, you have more hope than I have, why it's been 39 years since Suá and all who came and Philip Gonzále and all of them who came, even in Zapatero, and also Rajoy, who's over thirty years old. And those who accepted the state in its time said that it was to be over in a year, that is to say, between 79 to 80/81. It was not executed, but there was a coup of the State. So that was the development of the state. However, we ask you to bring in a work calendar for six months, explain it. Six months at most, that is, he can do it around summer, to see where his commitments go. And, indeed, it is also said that in the policy of prison it is necessary to encourage changes; it is not possible, that the intermediate state we now live in should maintain the policy of prison, and that all human rights, even the human rights of those who are imprisoned, should be respected. That's the request and also... It's the only drama we have here, isn't it? It's either two faces of the same coin or both sides. First, we say fill the state, and then we say to the Constitutional Court and Government: You see, don't take so much of it, why do you manage to lower the autonomy we've got nowadays? But they're two faces of the same coin. And that's either given or put her in, or brought her into the state where the state is. Why, on the one hand, I do not observe the State, and endeavour to limit the laws which are derived from this law, or from that law. Well, I think that's supposed to lead us to political thought, why the reduced, limited, and suppressed one way, leaves the state in a very difficult situation. that the President of Zeno said, or quoted in the day of the party, that the model of state is broken, and that the nations who wish to determine his future ought to be called firm and firm; and that I think it is a reflection, of profound reflection, of the State, or of the political delegation of the State. Besides, I think we're looking at a self-organized vice... This is not the time to bring out the discussions we are engaged in, but if we look in perspective, at least I see in the name of our party, and I mean that, if we see it in perspective, the steps we are making are important. One of them asked me yesterday: Where do you want to go with this thing? Me preguntaba el señor Passor, déde quereis bellare con todo esto? Well, there's a reflection. The delegation of this people is in this legislature. We know where the boundaries are; but from one point of view of the Basque, from a view of patriotism, from a view of the euskal, I would prefer that the main forces of the François, too, should be able to arrive at the small agreements of the halgari, which is of the highest importance. It's very important, even if you've seen the last decade. I mean, living in this town, considering the decades we've been through. It's important, the strategic importance. And time will show whether this importance is historical or not. But from generosity and a clean debate, I think Peter Sánchezi has been told to him at this moment: Look, we need to fill up an established state for this purpose, set up the means and the mediators, present us a work-place, and you have six months' time for it, and at the same time the other side of the coin-that is to say, all the appeals you have in the Constitution of the Court-that is to say, to abolish, why, among other things, the laws which a vast majority of the legislature has provided for. That's what I think he has to do. Then words and actions. I agree, words are words, and may be sweeter, round phrases, blooming phrases, and actions have a direct relation to reality, and reality shows that these words have actually become actions. That's why you said that we have some models to look at, or I think we should always be ready to learn. Now I don't think we're using the same measure: you have made a comparison with the South and the North. I don't know what area, what matters, why I look at it in perspective, even in case of the North, between the new manchomity of manchomen, will offer a chance to stabilize his personality, but it can't be compared to the institutions here. We know, in perspective, where we are and how we are, and I wish that the dialogue which has just begun with Madrid, with the governor of Paris or of France, should be discovered from afar by our representatives in the institutions of Basque or euscan, and from where Macron's thoughts are going.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. It's your call, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u98	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I left it on. Get out of the way. Good afternoon, everyone. Counselor. Mr Urruzuno must be acknowledged the paternity of this initiative, even if it is now going to be or has been matified through a compromise amendment. I think you have placed yourself perfectly, because I will not tire of repeating it, I will not tire of it, because I also think it is fair to acknowledge that you, at least, speak frankly and with absolute transparency of what will and willfulness you have with these kinds of initiatives. I also have to start by telling you that I understand that national politics seems very seductive to you, because things happen, many things happen, political today changes and evolves a lot, and of course, unlike what is happening here, that we are continually in the same noria with the same raca-raca, because it seems that we must constantly look at what is happening in Madrid, because this feeds and gives more political play. To be such a nationalist you talk a lot about Spain; it is something that we are not worried about, it is not a problem for us, but it is also worth remembering. Here we have an extraordinarily high level of competition, we have many challenges to face, many answers and many solutions to give to citizens innumerable questions, and it turns out that we are dedicated to talking about the sex of angels – and you understand this metaphor perfectly – instead of talking about the problems and controlling the government sitting here to respond to the real problems that Euskadi has. But well, that's why I'm going to try, without the spirit of exhaustiveness, to also justify why we're not going to support – even if it's not a surprise to you – the compromise amendment. It turns out that – I say without the courage to be exhaustive – it says a number of things that are truly surprising: they speak of democratic regression, like the period of the last years of government in Spain. Social problems that existed in Spain. And the Socialist Party states this, a party that, after leaving the government and Spain with about 4.5 million unemployed – when I say close, I mean 4.5 million high – turns out that when the Rajoy government is expelled from the government through a motion of censure, the unemployment and unemployment data in Spain are 3,200,000. No, no. It turns out that the problems of a social nature are now; that is, they were when Rajoy ruled. It reduces unemployment in Spain by more than a million people and there have never been more women working in the history of Spain as there have been at this time, and it turns out that problems, social problems and democratic regression occur with the People's Party government. It turns out that the Socialist Party also signs that the transfer report submitted in 2017 will be taken as a reference in the joint commission for the completion of the Statute of Gernika. It will also be necessary to explain to the Minister for Development that he has to give in to the competences, for example, exclusive of the State in the field of ports, in the field of airports, etc., etc., etc. This is a real political misconception that you have signed. I understand that we are in a new time, but let it not be a liquid and gaseous time, let it be a time, at least, when we speak rigorously and in which we do not generate an expectation – and I will talk about this, the generation of expectations, then – that will then frustrate the well-intentioned or not well-intentioned independent nationalists in this House who have a majority. Something that also reminds us of what has happened in other places in Spain, also the result of the ingenious – not to say otherwise – management of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, or what is the same, of the Socialist Party, which now Mr Sánchez intends to overcome and also intends to overcome with note. Another point that powerfully draws attention to is the systematic use of the rules adopted in this House before the Constitutional Court. I understand that this is a problem, except when the Constitutional Court agrees with the Basque Government. We have spoken about this on many occasions: when there is a discrepancy between two administrations, the same happens, by the way, within the Autonomous Community itself, with conflicts of competences, discrepancies in identifying who manages a competition between municipalities, parliaments, the Basque Government itself... Or are there no discrepancies and are they not resolved also, in some of them, through the courts? Or did they not exist? Turns out I was telling them that when there's a discrepancy between two institutions, there's an arbitrator. That arbitrator in our constitutional system, as in the rest of the democratic systems of our environment, at least in the known democratic world, is called the Constitutional Court, which sometimes gives reason to one administration and sometimes gives reason to another. Or is it that when the Housing Act of Andalusia is invoked, for example, before the Constitutional Court, there is also a will to dispose of powers? When a part of the article of the Basque Housing Act is invoked, for example, but which does not refer to a competition level, but to a violation of the fundamental rights of the citizen, is this a violation of competences or a defence of the fundamental rights of the citizen? When the Constitutional Court decides in favour of the Basque Government, for example, in the suitability of transferring two tracks of two sections of the Basque railway, is this also a violation of competences and is it the evil Constitutional Court that comes to empty of competences to Euskadi? Well, this is like I told you before, a political misconception and I don't think... Since we've discussed this a lot, I'm not going to repeat myself. Let's try at the heart of the matter. Mr Urruzuno, in his approach, said that he has placed the starting point with this non-legislative proposal, and that we will see, by 2020, that although there is little time, what is Mr Sánchez's real will to respond to the challenges, primarily the challenges related to the evil so-called right to decide, the right to self-determination, and therefore the independence of Euskal Herria. And Mr. Egibar has also focused or acknowledged that we know who Pedro Sánchez is. Of course you know, of course you know; it is your window of opportunity, but it seems to me that, from your perspective and that of these gentlemen, it is a window of magnificent opportunity. A liquid leader, gassy, weak, politically weak, because he has parliamentary support that depends among others on you and these gentlemen, to be able to exhaust the legislature, and it is an opportunity, it is the same opportunity that the independenceists in Catalonia had. You're waiting for Sanchez to do the same thing as Zapatero, and I think you have a lot of chances of him doing it. It will be a drama for Spain, but it may be very good for you; it will be a problem for the Basques, but it may be good for you. You are waiting for a statement from Sanchez similar to Zapatero's of "I will accept and abide and approve any Statute Parliament And this is the stage we're going to, Socialist Party gentlemen. This is the scenario that you – better said, being more rigorous, than his government, with Pedro Sánchez at its head – is feeding. An expectation of impossible fulfillment, because here we are not talking – they are not interested – neither the fulfillment of the status of autonomy, nor social rights, nor the... No, no. Here war is another, the battle they have raised is about the evil so-called new statute, the new Basque constitution. This is fundamental, the cornerstone of the nationalist and independence movement at the moment in Euskadi: whatever they are capable of giving birth in the midst of the self-government presentation, and we already know where they are going. And we already know what the approaches are. You are progressing with a majority that allows you to do so, a majority, which yes, Mr Urruzuno, is a roller, from the moment that it is a majority that only takes into account a part of Basquedi, a part of sensitivity, a way of understanding Basquedi, which is the nationalist, and you have the numbers to be able to do so, and you have approved, in solitary, the preamble, the preliminary and subsequent title that you will approve. This will lead to the drafting of a draft statute, which must be in a hurry for Mr Sánchez to be President of the Government when they have presented him and when they approve him in this House. This is the tour and the story. And at some point, the expectation that Mr Sánchez is generating, not just you, but the independenceists in Catalonia, will be an expectation of impossible fulfillment. Let us speak with total clarity. And then victimism will be invented, the victimism that so good result in Catalonia will try to use it also in Euskadi. And this is the serious irresponsibility that we face for responsibility and for Mr Sánchez's fault. We, in case anyone has any doubts, will try to avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u100	There are drinks with gas; but, liquid and gaseous at the same time, I don't think you can be... I don't know, I don't think you can. But the idea that was dropped, well, it might be quite acceptable, and we tried to transmit it, too, when we first spoke. But beyond the situation of PSOE, which is PSOE, and which I have said before, PSOE is not new, though I remember this: They say Margaret Thatcher was asked once what the greatest achievement in her political career was, and she said Tony Blair. He said Tony Blair... The point is, when Tony Blair was appointed for Prime Minister, everybody talked about the same things as we are talking about now: The new talante, the new stage, the tercera vía, no sé qué, no sé cuántos... Pero, al fine, acabando lo que martcher. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like Margaret Thatcher, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, "Mary logo pollico" like Tony Blair. And I believe this phenomenon is also in Spain between PP and PSOE. That's why I said, maybe even Pedro Sánchez, that we should be careful. But this is the present situation of PSOE, and how it comes to Government, and to what interrelations it is. But there's another thing that goes beyond, and I said it when I first spoke. There's another problem that's bigger because it's structured and it's... and I add, that when M. Pastor says there are at least options for the dialogue, and I admit, that the opportunity for the dialogue is a value in it, and that this is necessary, but that is not enough, eh? That's not enough, either. The problem of structure in this town is, when there's a dialogue, how the dialogue closes, or how the dialogue is repressed. There's something in this town that's missing, a guarantee, in order to respect what's said here. And that's the problem we have. And that's the problem we've got... And that's seen in the middle of the show. With our middle-class... We'll vote for the side if ours doesn't come out, we'll vote for the side. We believe that it could go further, and we only have proposed a slight change, a little change, a phrase, in the middle of a five-pointed medium, to add a sentence, and this sentence was the respect of the Parliament. And that wasn't going to be picked up, of course, and that's the problem. There he is! This question of structure is summed up very well in all this. It is very well summed up in this, and this also very well expresses what are the positions of each political party. I mean, we must respect what this parliament has decided, and the Social Party isn't agreed. Then what this people ought to do is this: The dialogue or the dialogue, although it is a will to do so, and I repeat that it is a virtue, seeing whence we come, perhaps it is. When we come to this point, when we arrive at the moment, how the results of the dialogue and the last results of the dialogue are rejected, and how they are made. And it is one of the principal problems of this people, that there is no intermediate between the majority which it has chosen, democraticly, that in this house, Spain, or State, may abolish all these means. Moreover, the question which we are speaking of here, being laws, is the purest example of this, and the question which is to abolish even those which are laws. So we think that's the challenge that we've got, and in the short term, to answer that stage which can spread at Sánchez's expense, and as minimum, I've already said that we've introduced four-point motives. In our opinion, beyond your middle course, it was going a little further. The decision here taken, or which confirmed or confirmed the decisions which it was here made, appears to us a little backward, and another demand, which was important to us. And I repeat: Respect for what the self-generacy decides. You've made another half-way. It's not enough for us. However, I mean our approval, if we come to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u102	Mr. Pastor, I've seen you a little overrepresentation... Six minutes, actually, but good. I did want to remind you that this motion, on the one hand, comes out – with the transaction as we have obviously done – with the support of Elkarrekin Podemos, but I also remind you that Mr Sánchez is also president thanks to Unido Podemos, who also presented the motion of censure thanks to the pressure we made there and that I am still quite young, I believe. You also have to be careful... I do not think that we should become irresponsible with some of the issues that arise. In other words, not wanting to realize the weakness of the government of Pedro Sánchez or the dependence it has on the left, not being aware of that, that does put the new political time at risk. I think you have to be very careful with that. I also imagine that it is not pleasant for you to have your duties marked, and less in a complicated situation, but it is precisely this complicated situation, that you have 84 Members, which forces you to have to listen, to have to agree and, above all, very clearly and without a doubt, to have to look to the left and not to the right. And that's what we're going to do, or what from Elkarrekin We can also ask of United We can in Congress, no more or less: loyalty all, demand as well, even more. Requirement that the government of Pedro Sánchez does not disappoint the expectations that citizens have in this new time. It is important to be aware that, for the moment, in these few three or four weeks that Pedro Sánchez has been in the government, there have been gestures, there have been many gestures. Many of them are very necessary, such as those of refugees with the Aquarius. But it is also true that actions have to come, facts have to come and laws have to come. And when I first pointed out to him the 20 measures that we have put on Sánchez's table, he did so with a very clear purpose: to support Sánchez's government, to be his partner, but not just a partner who gives blank checks. Eta Egibar yellow, self-governing inguruan komentariotxo bat. I think it's obvious that the plans were twisted a little bit. No, because it is true that in your party you were given free rein, free space in the paper, well, to draw the most sovereignist profile, I believe that above all to compensate for the budgetary pacts in Madrid. Of course, now Rajoy is not here and another political time opens up, as it is up to a little downsizing of sovereignism. I believe that a turn in this matter awaits you; I do not say that 180 degrees, but I do believe that it is true that the direction of self-government is not the one you have taken in these months and that everything points more to that it is going to look like another. We will see how they do the stork; we will see, as Mr Pastor told you yesterday, where they want to go, because the truth is that much of the expectation of how this new political time is moving to Euskadi, to a large extent, has to do with the way in which this issue is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u103	Mr Martínnez, thank you. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u104	Good. Mr Egibar said – and said well – that what was voted on the other day, although then it has an automatic constitutional mechanism, was a motion of censure against the previous president. That is why certain confluences were probably possible, because not long ago you had voted – with the Lords of Podemos, by the way – against the investiture of Pedro Sánchez; it is true, you had also voted against Bildu's on that occasion. It was therefore more of a vote against than in favour; but, in any case, that is the Government we have, those are the supports for which it came forward. And, Mr Martínez, I have not reproached Podemos; I have only found that, at the time of Mr Ibarretxe, when he launched that statute that ended up in the Constitution, the United Left was part of that Basque Government, nothing more. It is a historical observation; not a reproach, nothing more. On the other hand, I agree with you that the obligation we have for the two forces we claim from the left is to speak, to agree and to move forward with the social agenda. Well, Bildu, I don't know if the bill has been made to talk about what Bildu said he wanted to talk about, even though he wanted to talk about something else, or to talk about the PSOE. I love that they talk about the Socialist Party; I think it's great. But I want to remind you... That of the PSOE does not have very good memories, the PSOE is not reliable... I remind you that at the time of that president who called himself Zapatero, an option of dialogue was launched, very risky politically at that time, which facilitated, among other things, that some of you are here today, for example. And that was with a government that was of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; that is, not to pervert history beyond normal. And then there is a subject that you always raise, and that is absolutely illogical, which comes to say: no, it is that we have to have our own decision-making capacity, because, as you impose regressive, re-centralizing and antisocial measures on us, if we do it from the Basque, then we are going to be the'milk' of progressives. Well, no! Progression or non-progress does not depend on one carrying txapela Then I didn't want to mess with Mr. Semper much, because he was moderate; he was smart enough, for example, not to mention the changes in prison policy, not to do what Mr. Maroto did yesterday, which I was ashamed of, in the Congress of Deputies, again threatening demonstrations on the street, trying to throw the dead to the government, as Mr. Rajoy did in his day, when he accused us of betraying the dead. Because I suppose you remember that in 1999, Mr Aznar approached 135 prisoners in this country; some were released, and one of them specifically killed Juan Priede, socialist councilman of Orio, a few months later. And you never heard the Socialist Party reproach the Government of Spain for what you had done in implementing what you understood was good for the country. You say I don't know why you put democratic regression. Man, Mr. Semper, because there has been. Because, what is the law gag, rather than a democratic regression to freedom of expression? What is to stop investing in health and public education, rather than a democratic regression? What is the whole thrust in research and science, rather than a democratic regression, of what were great parameters of the state of well-being in this country? And then don't trap me between Sanchez and Zapatero and what happened in Catalonia. Because the problem of Catalonia was not managed because at that meeting in Palau Sant Jordi – in which I was certainly present – Zapatero committed that he would support the status that came out of the Catalan parliament. No, no. It was ruined when you set up an indecent campaign against Catalans, in the media and in all networks, and then brought to the Constitutional Court a statute that had been voted by the Catalan Parliament and approved by the Catalans. And there began the crisis of trust with the Catalans, Mr. Semper, to be just and looking to history. But that's not what I'm telling you, it's what any Catalan, even those of the PP of Catalonia, is telling you, which are a little bit of a thing. But at least be able to recognize what has happened in this story. And all we do here is demand compliance, to which you would have to add, with the pending transfers of the Statute of Gernika, which is what we are about to say. There is also a call for the Government of Spain to put the social agenda on the frontlines of its work, because it also affects us here, even if it is not a Basque agenda, and a lot. We also think it is important, and there is talk that the reform of prison policy can be implemented. Something, by the way, that Patxi López already said, being you government partners with us supporting from the outside, that had to be done within prison legality. Nothing different is being said now than what that lehendakari named Patxi López has already bet in a monographic plenary held in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u105	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u106	Yeah. First of all, if I understood Mr. Lander's reflection, you would have said that you were expecting a new tour of the Euden Party, or that our direction may be variable... Look, you're in this Parliament since the last election. You remember the year 2016, the rest of the parliamentary teams introduced a report about the auto-beron. So since January 2016, there's been a registered document of the Jestle Party of Eusk. And if you examine the whole course, you will find that it has complete consistency, and that there are no maxims of position, but democratic attitudes, which admit to the character of a people, because we are a people, the reality cannot be denied, and because peoples have the right to determine their future. If you can see it from the beginning: you may take the document and check it with what we are doing or not having a match. Ours isn't a drill. Singlature is a sea term, and it is a day's journey, one day. Our route page is marked. And what I said is, in the foregoing intervention, that we ought to do with the most extensive agreement that can be made amongst all, that is, why we use something else here: consistent. 'Consent' is the common agreement, the agreement of all, at least the dictionary says so. We ought to make the most extensive agreement about democratic principles, and even about human rights and social and economic rights; but from the national point of view, as well as about collective rights. The insertion of all that could lead us to a big deal. We're on the side of it. And the Urrudus said that they had given a kind of addiction to the second point to-day. If you take the text and the appendix, that's certainly an oxymone. It cannot be proclaimed in the same paragraph, that the State ought to be filled with the Government of Spain, that we shall arrange a commission, and that those gaps of the Common-wealth should be fulfilled, and at the same time say that what this people decides must be respected. In the first place, you have the proof that what this town decides is not respected. And therefore let us not separate them from the right of deciding, why some divide them in one way, and others in another way, because the insertion of the right to decide is important to a political subject. And at least in that exercise, it wasn't the best thing for me to do at the end of that text. However, I am glad that, apart from the consent of these three parliamentary groups, if you add your votes, he will receive a clear message, as Peter Sánchezi explained to him. There are four or five points, but the first has something to do with the past, why the crime had been there, and there are, too, social and economic grounds, because they are mentioned. But the other is to fill the state in six months, to inform this inspector of a work-house, from which he puts certain priorities between his rights, and how the Constitutional should act as far as the Government is concerned, because things in the Constitution do not go on alone, and the Spanish Government has been absolutely a taxator of this legislature, and the laws which have been admitted to an extensive majority in this legislature have been terminated in the United States. So that if Peter Sánchez really insists on giving and giving the dialogue, we must see it six months or at least until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u108	Thank you, señora, President. Mr Pastor, a man with your parliamentary experience who has already brought the reply prepared to tell me things I have not referred to, and talks to me about yesterday's debates in the Congress of Deputies, which I assure you I have not followed and I do not know. But, well, I understand that this is a more comfortable way to come to Parliament, but I am surprised by your experience and your ability, which is, of course, far above having to use those techniques. What I'm telling you is that you're feeding an expectation, and an expectation of impossible fulfillment and that, first, you're going to give a victimistic argument to the independenceists, the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu, just like it happened in Catalonia. Look, the remedy of unconstitutionality is a fundamental right, it is a right that citizens and institutions thus empowered by the norm itself. Moreover, we should not be afraid, because it is to ensure that the rules – of course, forgiveness for redundancy – adhere to our legal system. This seems reasonable. It seems reasonable that it has been defended as a useful and necessary tool in politics. What Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero did is, to a large extent, what Sánchez is doing now. But I insist, I am convinced that Sanchez will improve Zapatero. Zapatero what he announced is that he would fulfill, he would comply, he would accept, he would respect the Statute Parliament I insist, among other things, because it generates an expectation of impossible fulfillment, because not even Mr Zapatero, as much president of the Spanish government as he is, and not even Mr Sánchez, as much president of the government as he is, even though he has been through a motion of censure supported by those who want to break Spain precisely, can do so. 14 articles of the Statute It's just, let's see if it sounds to you, because here you're doing something like that, let's see if it sounds to you. In addition to the fact that Catalan is a preferred language in the administrations and the media, "That is, he tells the citizens, the administrations..., in what language they have to speak; this is a constitutional aberration not only, but I would dare to say that ethics and morals," he created, intended to create, the Council of Justice of Catalonia. You, like me, are in the self-government paper, and that's what you picked up. A judicial system of its own, in which the courts end up in the Superior of Justice and a General Council of the Judiciary is created for Euskadi. This is what is appealed to the Constitutional Court, and these are several of the 14 articles that have been appealed, in addition to the imposition, the obligation, to the media to speak in a given language, when the officers are two; all these things have been appealed and must be said; because, if not, it seems true that their account against the action of the Constitutional Court is true and has not been so. It turns out that we now meet and face a moment, Mr Urruzuno, in which – and speaking of dialogue –... Look, I think dialogue is not an end in itself; dialogue is a tool for making decisions, for agreeing people, people, institutions, political parties..., who think in a different way and, if necessary, agree on something and set it in motion. The problem we are facing, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, is that for those who are liquid and gaseous, and can be both, not at the same time obviously; but, depending on time, Mr Sánchez is solid, liquid or gaseous. Depending on your particular interest and the photo of the moment. It depends on whether you get off a helicopter or photograph your hands, it's liquid or it's gaseous; it depends on whether you're standing before Mr. Urkullu in Moncloa or in the Congress of Deputies, it's one way or another. But the problem we face is that it's going to generate an expectation and something that bothers you or something that knows impossible to fulfill. Call for dialogue, as an end in itself, and then it says: Let us dialogue, let us sit at a table, and you will go and sit down. And Mr Sánchez will start to turn around and you will say: well, what about ours?, and this from the referendum of independence what?, and this from accepting and complying with the statute that comes out of the Basque Parliament. Let's talk, he'll tell you again. And you, well, we're going to talk, but no, no, let's talk. And he's buying time. And you generated an expectation logically, an expectation that will interest you politically and electorally, logically. It's a chollo for you, Mr. Sanchez, just like Zapatero was. Politically, for those who want to take the cat to the water by jumping the legal order and trying to find a liquid or gaseous president, it is a chollo. I understand that you enjoy having Sánchez as President much more than Mariano Rajoy, for the many and good agreements that would have been reached and for the very good and sensible dialogue that you had between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, not without problems and discrepancies, but the value of the word given, this yes, that of Rajoy, cannot be denied by anyone. The clarity in maintaining an interview with the Basque Government, through Mariano Rajoy from the Spanish Government, cannot be denied by anyone. One thing you are not going to have now, but what you expect is to get some benefit, and what I have told you before: to the extent of our possibilities and considering that in a year and a half you can destroy a lot but a year and a half is not so much time, we will try to correct it, so that the sensibility, serenity and compliance with the rule of which we We have provided no one to take advantage of the political and responsible turn, in this case in the Moncloa. I hope that there will soon be, again, a government of the People's Party in Moncloa, which will be very good for all the Spaniards, but especially for the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the text of Mr. Urruuno Goldsi's original motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 17; rivals, 56; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u110	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Eucatis. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u111	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. At this point I interrupt the entire meeting until half-past three. The spokesman's committee, please, can we meet in the little room for a minute? It was two o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at thirty-four.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u112	Good afternoon, everyone. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together about the head director of EIB. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u113	Yes, good afternoon. I don't want to start my speech without remembering that today is LGTBIQ+ Pride Day. This year marks the 40th anniversary of the first manifestation of pride in Euskadi, specifically in Bilbao, no doubt an act of courage in those times when the dictatorship was very recent. And while it must be recognized that there has been considerable progress in those 40 years, there is still a long way to go today. There are many years of struggles on the streets for rights and freedoms, and today I want to highlight the struggle of all those people who, individually or organizedly, went out and out on the streets to claim and defend our rights. And also, I invite you to participate in the different manifestations that exist in our cities and villages today. It is this struggle that generates progress in equality and freedom, and not the commercialization of our identities. Because we were, because we're gonna be. Let's get started. A year and a half ago our group introduced a bill to reform the law on the creation of EITB, whose inadequacy to the present times and needs is more than evident. This proposal reflected the lines of our electoral programme, and sought to be the starting point for a reform, which has been urgent for a long time, as we all know. We present a basic articulation for a reform of the law that could be completed before the end of this legislature. Following the rejection of that initiative, the failed comprehensive EITB reform paper was reactivated, which, in the previous legislature, had made no progress. It is therefore clear that our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin, is committed to the reform of EITB from the outset. The work we have done in the paper is also an example of it, although it was not, in our view, the most effective way to address the issue. Since then, we have debated a lot about EITB and the serious problems it faces, in the presentation and in the plenary, as well as in the monitoring committee, and we have adopted some initiatives on the lack of neutrality and independence of the information, which highlight the discomfort of the majority of this House on this issue, an issue that is not less, since we are talking about the fulfilment of the public service function of our public radio-television, which, as we will see, is also the demand of Basque society, and which today EITB does not guarantee. Since the start of the legislature, on all occasions when the director of EITB has attended the supervisory committee, it has been more than proven that she lacks a project. Not only that, it has been shown, as happened at the last sitting of that committee, that it does not even have any willingness to be accountable and to fulfil the mandate of this Parliament. I refer to his refusal to bring a strategic plan for EITB, as requested seven months ago: seven months, seven folios. He appeared to tell us that the panorama is very complex and that this makes it impossible to elaborate any strategy. A direction that, therefore, was evident, which confesses its inability to even elaborate the main lines of a strategic plan. In another of his appearances, that of March 5, he presented us the evaluation of the last strategic plan that has had EITB, a self-contained evaluation, lacking objective indicators and contrasting evaluation, whose fundamental conclusion was that EITB met its objectives. Curious, even though he's under historical minimums in hearings. In another one of his appearances... Well, in an evaluation, I'm sorry, that you also do your own direction to yourself, something far removed from the minimally serious and presentable evaluation procedure, plus unheard of. Anyone can understand that evaluating a strategic plan of an agency such as EITB should be carried out with a minimum of independence and rigour, something that is usually guaranteed through external actors in the public media with standards of transparency and good governance, from which EITB is so far away. As on other occasions, the Director General refused to answer most of the questions asked to her, and especially those asked by my parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos. A lack of respect again for our group and Basque citizenship. A lack of transparency, of transparency to which it is bound by law. In addition, the current management has also not been able to explain the criteria for awarding to producers in the production of their television grills. Well, actually he did explain something to us the director of ETB, something curious did let us see, I think unintentionally, and came to ratify the fact that these awards are completely arbitrary. I think I can use that finger-to-toe expression here, without anyone correcting me. Arbitraries, opaque, without a public and contradictory process on the basis of objective criteria of score of the projects being presented, in addition to the historical series of awards to a specific series of producers and the provision of the public service to them as regards certain programmes that make political information, that is, the de facto privatization of a significant part of the information programmes. Nor were the questions raised by our group answered in that monitoring committee; one more. In fact, the exponential increase in awards to certain producers who had links with members of the current management remains unclear. Opacity, lack of transparency and, again, silence to the questions of our parliamentary group. To this absolute lack of referral of accounts, is added the fact that the current management of the entity continues with a policy of recruitment that has entailed the loss of tens of thousands of euros, tens of thousands of euros, as a result of law frauds in the hiring, inspections of the General Treasury of Social Security and minutes of lawyers. Thousands of euros lost in public money. In addition to these economic losses, it is unwarranted that EITB violates labour law and promotes fraud and unworthy working conditions. Something that came up again in this plenary recently, when we approved by majority to ask EITB to bring collective conflicts to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, and not to the National Court. And to all this harmful management, it is added that our Basque public television ignores, silences and invisibles 50% of the population. It ignores, silences and invisibles women. Moreover, it fails to comply with Law 4/2005 of 18 February for the Equality of Women and Men, beginning with its article 3, the general principles. And what general principles do you fail to follow? I challenge them. It is in breach of equal treatment. Women in EITB are not treated the same as men; we don't have the same space as them, so they don't do it. It fails to fulfil equal opportunities: it is well known that there is not a single programme in EITB in which women's voices are as represented as men's. Most chats, if not all, have a male overrepresentation, so they fail. It fails to respect diversity and difference; it fails. It fails to integrate a gender perspective; it fails to do so. It is inconsistent with balanced representation. EITB does not comply with 50% of the population, and this is only by reading Article 3. I'm closing up. This week we have learned the data of the sociometer on EITB, which commissioned the presentation with the contributions of each of the groups in the elaboration of the questionnaire. Some of us, by the way, are making a significant number of amendments and proposals, so that they do not say that we do not work on the paper. As we have repeatedly heard in this Parliament that many of our statements and analyses were only "evaluations" ( Keinu bat egiten du eskuekin) As a summary, I will say the main issues left to us by the sociometer: EITB is a partyist. Nobody's surprised, right? EITB does not adequately reflect plurality. We're not surprised about this either, are we? EITB does not fulfil the public service function; another. Most respondents prefer that the control task be carried out by an independent body. Most of the people asked want the election of the EITB Directorate-General to be made by a body in which civil society, parties, trade unions and professionals, both from EITB and the sector, are represented. And another fact that is very curious, that it is worth it that we stop to think about all of it: 40% of the people surveyed do not know/do not answer about the management of the EITB Directorate. It's just, like I said, a summary. If you want then we can go into detail, in the reply, on some of the other issues that have been addressed. It is therefore time for the parties in this House to assume our responsibility, as we have and must exercise it. It's hardly worth regretting if, when we can do something to change, we don't. That is why I would like to ask today to vote in favour of this initiative, because what we are bringing here today is the possibility of improving the provision of public service by EITB and of responding to the demands of citizens and workers. To conclude, today we make a clear and committed invitation to the rest of the parties and to the Basque Government itself: to seek a person of consensus who can immediately assume the leadership of EITB until the work of the paper is completed and the legislative change has taken place. A new direction that takes on immediate tasks: ensuring plural, impartial and objective information; defining the structural staffing structure; changing the harmful personnel policy; and taking the necessary steps to ensure that the selection procedures for managerial positions are based on the principles of equal opportunities and career development. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u115	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Well, yes, we're back to discussing Basque public television. We do it every week, Mondays in the reform paper, and we do it almost every Thursday in plenary. I repeat that the Socialist Group – I am going to sum up because it is a debate that takes place every Thursday – has no problem in addressing in part any of the issues that Mrs Arana has mentioned, which are related but which is not what we are voting on today. What we are voting on today is the request for the cessation of the director of Basque public television, not an interim appointment, nor the improvement of the public service. At least, that's not what it puts, even if it's related, in the non-law proposal we're debating. All this journey – I'm going to tell you again, although I'm sorry to be repetitive – we've already done it in the past legislature. This debate was held on all the issues that we have also discussed in plenary and in the presentation. The lack of plurality was discussed; the recruitment model was discussed; neutrality was discussed; mismanagement was also discussed; the hearing was discussed; cessation was requested, resignation was requested... All this has been done in the previous legislature. And some of those battles were won. But finally, what we think is most important, which is to address the comprehensive reform of Basque public television, was not possible. It was not possible, and it is a job that I do believe we are doing in the comprehensive reform paper. There has been talk of a failed paper, and it is said that the one we have used to hide Maite Iturbe under the paper. I would like to say that I do not consider it respectful of the people who are appearing in the paper and who, with rigour and responsibility, are offering us proposals for the improvement of EITB, which we want to face in this legislature. At least I would not like to tell the next participant, the next participant, for example the unions that are called soon, that this paper only serves that purpose. I don't think about it, and that's what I'm saying. Nor do I think, and so I say, that the political groups, including that of the proposer and who defended the proposal, are doing in the paper a job to hide Maite Iturbe under the table of the paper. That's not true. The presentation is setting out proposals, both for the participatory model and, I hope, once we finish these work, to put black on white what are those who in a comprehensive way want to face this improvement of the public service, that better governance, that better financing and that EITB in which we all feel better represented. It is something we know by which we sit here, by which we sat and by which we sat in the previous legislature, that we do not share or support the current Directorate of EITB and that we maintain discrepancies with it, we maintain discrepancies that we have said in each and every one of the debates that have taken place: in plenary, in the committee of control and in the presentation. The problem is how to deal with those problems. We believe, as was more or less agreed at the end of the previous parliamentary term by the People's Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, that this had to be addressed through a comprehensive reform in which we formed all parties. A proposal was made by Mrs Llanos from the Group of the European People's Party, and we are working on that. It is something the Basque Nationalist Party did not agree with, but it joined, and Elkarrekin Podemos also joined. And on that path we will follow the Socialists, because it is the only alternative that we have who believe that another form of governance is necessary, another way to guarantee the plurality and independence of the contents of Basque public television; another way to guarantee real opportunities for the professionals of the house to assume new responsibilities; another way to relate to the audiovisual industry, another way to lead the policy of contracting, to improve, in economic and audience terms, the management of EITB. And until last week, we thought that was what we had understood by a large majority of Parliament. Because until last week, there were three groups, which numbered 55 seats, with recorded writings, telling the management what we thought should be done, while following the current period of interinity. Then something happened so that some of the groups or several – we'll see how the vote is going – changed their minds. All we can ask ourselves, after this plenary session and after this discussion, is whether the proposal is actually approved and the Government of the current director of EITB is called upon to cease, is what the groups are doing. What do we tell the address to do? What do we say to those who do not share – for example, the Basque Nationalist Party – that this director is not the right one for the current Basque public television? What do we tell them? How do we do it? How do we do it? What do we answer to those who come to appear in the paper? Thank you so much for nothing? Don't we do anything else in the paper? Are we waiting for that non-law proposal to be fulfilled or not to be fulfilled? Because, following the cease-fire request, if it is true that this cease-fire is approved, we know what is happening, that the ball is on the roof of the government, and I repeat it again. And as all groups know, and I don't find anything new: we don't share, but our government partner does. And as long as we do not agree with the governing partners and a law remains in force that says that the nomination proposal is from the government, there will be no change in direction. And with this, and as this was part of the November 2016 talks, the agreement we reached with the Basque Nationalist Party is that this comprehensive reform should be incorporated into the defence. And that's the job you're doing, and I think that's the job you're doing. It was about not changing people, but changing the whole model of Basque public television. That's what we thought and what we've been thinking. The Socialist Group understands that, sometimes, from the leadership, there have been reasons to think that they are very calm; many others, have boasted of self-intelligible complacency with reality, requests for explanations about what they are doing, and even, many times, they are shielded in our work in the paper and in our capacity to agree not to take on criticisms or commitments. It is true that there are sometimes reasons to think about it and it is also true that we have denounced it and said it in the various bodies, both in which they are confidential, such as the Governing Council, and in this Parliament. But before the situation, in our view, the timely response remains the same as I have told you: to offer alternatives that are realistic and that can be put into practice. If someone comes out of this full by convincing the PNV of something different than the one he thinks, we talk; have no doubt. But if they can't convince them, as they haven't been convinced so far, we'll have to think about tomorrow. And the Socialist Group is what it was thinking, what it has thought when it tabled the amendment in its entirety and what it continues to think at this time: our only commitment is to comprehensive reform, from top to bottom and from the foundations, to ensure that leadership is appointed by a qualified majority, for mandates beyond the legislature, that avoid any risk of servility towards the government in office, whatever that may be. Management with greater transparency, with programme contracts to be endorsed by this Parliament, so that accountability is effective and not a mere counting of programming hours. An EITB with continuous training procedures, which invite professionals to acquire new profiles and new responsibilities. Our commitment is to an audiovisual service in which citizens, all of them, feel it their own, where no one feels excluded or excluded by thinking or feeling in one way or another. A public service, in short, that guarantees the rights of Basques and Basques to have truthful and plural information, audiovisual content that can be seen anywhere in the world, that project us as a modern society, with a creative audiovisual industry, that competes in the new ways of watching television, outside the living rooms, on the screens of computers or mobile phones. And that commitment continues, before and after the vote on this non-legislative proposal, and we continue to reach out to all and all who have a project compatible with this commitment, to continue working on the comprehensive reform, to continue to finish those work, prior to decision-making, which is the one that will give a real answer to all the partial political battles that we are waging, in full, every week. Because it's the only battle that can be won, that of getting the public service better. And for that the patches do not fit; it is possible to sit and put on the table, black on white, what is the model of public radio-television that we want to improve it as a service. And that is not solved by a partial measure alone, and the proposer, the proposing group, knows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u117	Yes, all good afternoons, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, all members of the legislature. Honorary court EITBren inguruan hitz egitera ateratzen naizen bakoitzean, lehenengo gauza gustatzen zaidana zerbitzu publikoa aldarrikatzea, éta gaur ére horrela hasiko naiz, zeren nik you had bear garrantzitsua zerbitzu audiobisual publiko horren garrantzia mahai hegean jartzea toki guztietan, éta posenzian passatzen ari direen aditu guztiek aipatzen due hori, éta nik you have hour ez dugula bistatik galdu behar. That public audiovisual service, that capacity to provide that public audiovisual service, allows us a number of guarantees, such as universal access, social cohesion, the promotion and preservation of cultural, linguistic, functional and social diversity, the promotion and external projection of our unique values, and also of our cultural industries. I think it's important, and we should not forget it, and I think it has to always be on our frontispiece. And, too, I always like to begin with the law (the Jewish law), because I think it was a precursor. I think I have already mentioned this law here in the third time in this tribe. He was a very pioneer, very modern, and then some alterations were made to improve his administration, and I believe he deserves to be mentioned today in the porch, which is said at the door. And he says in the original document: "By confessing the criterion of the national service, which is capable of this law, the social characteristics of the community are formed, as they are the first-rate means of handing the public to the public, and the first-rate means of taking advantage of his education and the establishment of Euscal culture, in spite of the fundamental application of our arrangement and propagation of the rest, in particular consideration of the establishment and propagation of the rest, and in the manner necessary for the rights and grounds of the citizens of this Autonomy, and the foundation of the community. Horrela dia atarikoak 1982.eko epailaren 20years. That is what the preamble to the law of the year 82 says. He tells us that the Basque public media are a fundamental means of cooperation with our educational system and with the promotion and dissemination of Basque culture, bearing in mind the development and promotion of Basque. And all that is very present. He is very present here today and in the work that governs the presentation as well. But I'd say, too, 35 years ago. It's been 35 years since the law was approved, and society and media have changed a lot these years. And now we have to interpret these principles in another way, in an updated manner. We have read these principles and have to update and perform them according to the changes which have occurred between us and the EITB project. As I say, many things have happened during the 35 years, and many things have been said about EIB. We all have our opinion of what has been done and what is to be done. And I'm sure that Françoise and our team are sure that there are EITBn to improve things. We must make some changes, and to change the things we have to change in our own way, it will be much easier for us to guess if we look for the continents, if we seek the continents. That's what we did for it, and as Mrs. Romero has said before, we formed ponci, and we are all here, I believe, working here, with loyalty and sincerity. And in a former part of the division I had in this tribe, I also mentioned the contract of the program. And I think that's important, too, because it protects us, protects us from doing our work calmly and carefully. We have a current program contract, which comes from the year 2016 and takes us to the year 2019. We have the ongoing work of the presentation for the comprehensive reform of EITB, as has been said here. We are working constructively – I have also said this here in this rostrum other times – with difficulties sometimes, but I want to highlight that with the will of the groups to work. We have been reaching agreements; we have been getting results; without going any further, last Monday we met the sociometer that had been commissioned by the presentation itself to a wide group of professionals, professors, professors of the UPV, also with the professionals of the Cabinet of Sociological Prospecting. And those results that Mrs. Arana reads in a rather particular and special way, perhaps it is because due to some health problems she could not come to the paper and then she did not listen to the explanations of those responsible for the study. In any case, I wish you a speedy recovery. But, in fact, the sociometer tells us that the whole of EITB has a good assessment, in addition to the aspects that concern us: in reliability, plurality and independence of the media in Euskadi. The majority of the population believe that the media in Euskadi are reliable, providing information free from political and commercial pressures. In any case, we are convinced that we have room for improvement. I said it. We are willing to do self-criticism; we believe that there are things to improve; we believe that there are things to change, and that is why we are immersed in EITB's comprehensive reform paper. That is why we are committed to this presentation and that is why we are working constructively, making proposals, doing work, collaborating, giving in at times when it is necessary, like the rest of the groups, and we begin – I insist – to see the fruits. Different experts are passing through the paper; the experts are focusing on other things that are different from who is currently the person in charge of the EITB Directorate, Mrs Arana. They are not focusing there, the focus is on facing the challenges, on facing the digital challenges, on attracting our young people, on knowing how we have to get right with the programming, how we have to do to integrate into this changing world in which we have had to live. That's what they're telling us; no expert is focusing on where you're putting it. And in another debate that we also had in this House, in this plenary – which is often repeated – I was also telling you, Mrs Arana, in Fuller's words, that you cannot demolish models, if you do not have an alternative model. A new alternative model needs to be built. That new alternative model we're building among all of us is going to make us obsolete the previous one. And we will change it, but the change will come from the construction of the new model, not the uncontrolled demolition of what is there. I think it is very little responsible to say that everything is wrong, to say that we do not have a public audiovisual service that is worth it. I believe that it has been the work of many decades, the work of many professionals, the work of many people that has brought us here, with a public audiovisual service that has its shortcomings, that has its needs for change, but that obviously has to be valued, we have to put value on it, we have to work with it and we have to bring it to the excellence to which I believe it deserves to be brought, so that we take steps to make our society proud of its audiovisual media and, above all, of its public audiovisual media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Passing the teams that don't run, representing the Euscal Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Oregi, for here is another irresponsible one, because I say at the outset that I will support this initiative, as I supported it in the last parliamentary term. This is not the first time that an initiative has come to this House questioning the management of the current management of Basque public television. It is not the first time that it is also pointed out to its director, Maite Iturbe, and to its entire team, as the main ones responsible for which, no doubt, is the darkest stage of the public entity, of Basque radio-television, and it is not the first time that it is asked to cease. Nor is it the first time in this Government's impassive, passive and irresponsible attitude to such a grave situation. Because what is being debated here today, it is true, is the management of Mrs Iturbe at the head of EITB, but also the response that this government has repeatedly given: that of hiding and continuing to move the tree from the shadow, and yes, Mrs Romero, from the shadow of the presentation. And the paper isn't good for everything, I don't say... The paper has to be valid, but the paper can't be an excuse, and it's being used as an excuse. As an excuse for a situation that we believe is unsustainable, because Mrs Iturbe's situation is unsustainable, and it has been for a long time. And I believe that you, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, some of you who are going to support Mrs Iturbe here today think the same way. Because resignation was requested in the last parliamentary term, and not only did this Parliament request it, it was also requested by the employees of the body. They also requested his cessation. And he says what the government's gonna do. Well, listen to what Parliament says, don't you? Or do governments not have to respect the majority will expressed in this Parliament? Because what the government has done is an absolute disregard for this Parliament, disregarding the parliamentary mandate and continuing in the same direction. And not only did they continue in the last parliamentary term, no, it is that in this parliamentary term Mrs Iturbe is continuing in the interim and it seems that she is going to continue in the interim sine die And by reviewing what we said in 2015 to argue the request for cessation, the truth is that, not that it has changed, there are more reasons than then to ask for the cessation of Mrs Iturbe. Then we showed what is to be expected of EITB as public television that is paid with the money of all Basques, that is a means of communication in which everyone, whatever our ideology, we feel represented. Let it be a means of communication that captures the interests and concerns of Basques and Basques, of which we are concerned. Let it be a public service, yes Mrs Oregi, which is what it is not now, a public service that complies with the commitments arising from the law of creation of the entity and the contract signed with the Basque Government and under which it receives 120 million euros of public funds, money paid by all Basques and all Basques. To contribute to the dissemination of Basque culture, to the dissemination of Basque culture, and to provide a means of encouraging the Basque audiovisual media. And these fundamental issues for a public service as it is EITB, do they comply? Clearly not, ladies and gentlemen, at all. In this House we have discussed on many occasions the subjects dealt with in EITB, the plurality of the entity, the objectivity of its information, the support given to the Basque audiovisual media, but the debates at the end are empty and the agreements are also, because they are then not being complied with. It is true, it is true, Mrs Romero, that they are not fulfilled, but they should be fulfilled. And an example of how mandates aren't met last week. Seven months ago, as has been said here by the proposer, the EITB Directorate was tasked with drafting the outline of the strategic plan to be followed by the entity until 2030. And as I say, last week it was presented by the EITB address. And as is said vulgarly, what he presented didn't have a pass. He presented a seven-page document—almost already the number is the least; the fundamental is in content—which was a repetition of previous plans, with vagueness and without any concreteness. And the reason given was that the audiovisual sector is very changing, that the future is uncertain and that long-term forecasts cannot be made. It is that, Mrs Oregi: it is that the management has declared itself incapable, in the EITB Control Committee, of facing the challenges of the future, and has put it in writing, because I say that the circumstances of the medium will be the same for all televisions, that the difficulties of the forecasts will be the same. What are the difficulties of forecasting? The inability of the current management, which has led EITB, with this management, to the worst audience data in its history. And yet, in an exercise of absolute complacency, say that it has fulfilled 70% of its strategic plan. Inability in the relationship with the workers, which led to this, to carry out on Basque radio the first strike in the history of the entity. Incapacity that has brought with it a clear labour conflict, with numerous judicial expenses. Inability to call things by name and present, as an offer of public employment, what was nothing more than an undercover ERE, which in the end had to end up recognizing. But the issue goes far beyond disability: EITB has been put up with time in purely political management. The decisions taken by the current management and made by Mrs Iturbe are political, apart from any professional criteria, only subject to the political criteria of the PNV government and which have its director as the main asset within the house. Any decision that is made in EITB previously passes through the political sieve of ruling nationalism. And that way of acting and proceeding has led us to the current situation. It's not just a matter of low hearings, there are. I wish it was EITB's only problem! It is clear the acceptance that Basque citizens have of programming. The data is there. The numbers say what they say. But if the EITB problem were confined to a bad choice of programming, the solution would be quite different from what is being raised in this Parliament today. But what is serious, what we are analysing here, is the political leadership with which Mrs Iturbe is at the head of EITB, in a permanent coordination with Sabin Etxea in making her decisions. We have a public television at the service of ruling nationalism, absolutely dedicated to strengthening each and every one of the political positions of nationalism. That's the reality of EITB and Maite Iturbe's management, and the rest comes from you. In this Parliament, more than once, the management and the way in which the current management of Basque public television has been carried out has been pointed out. And nothing has happened here. It's okay! And nothing happens because this government and the parties that support it, the two parties that support it, are interested in continuing to have a public radio-television subject to and subject to political power. But that way of managing the public is costing the Basques and Basques a lot of money. And we're going to give a brushstroke of the reality of what EITB is today. That reality on which you do not want to act and on which you have overflew, Mrs Oregi, but without really giving any answer. EITB is a political instrument at the service of the Government. The main objective of the EITB leaders today is to make the political strategy of governing nationalism a speaker, and to reinforce, only and exclusively, the messages that go in that direction. It works permanently as a political filter. What reigns in favor of ruling nationalism rises to the category of news; what does not, remains always in the back room. It offers a biased, interested current; the practice of controlling and manipulating information is more than settled on our Basque public television and, to a lesser extent, also on the radio. Everyone knows what interests it serves, the interests of the Government. EITB does not report in an objective and professional way, it does not have current contents that allow the citizen to form his or her opinion. No, no, Each information, each current program, makes it clear, EITB makes it clear, that for what it uses it is to indoctrinate, to direct the opinion of Basques and Basques towards certain positions. And this manipulation is perfectly evident in the very choice of news that is given, in its treatment, in its presentation... It does not comply with any of the basic principles to which public television is bound. There is no respect for plurality and for diversity of thought, which is represented in this very Parliament. Political content goes above any other in programme planning. There is no room for culture, for sport, for entertainment. No, it is the political content that prevails in EITB, because it is the political content that allows, directly and effectively, to carry forward the political objectives that occupy the head of EITB officials. Political programming. That is the fundamental thing in EITB, with clear and well-defined objectives: to serve nationalism, and to damage the position of those who are not nationalists. A public television that we all pay, that costs us a lot of money to all Basques, that has magnificent professionals, but to those that it departs to give the programming always to the producers friends and always to the same. A television that everyone assumes as PNV television, the television of ruling nationalism. I will not insist, because Mrs Arana has already done so: a television that is not committed to equality between men and women or to the gender perspective. Of course we need a change in EITB, but not just in the EITB model, not just in what we are dealing with in the paper. There is a need for an impetus to the professionalization of public television, which should be directed with objectives that are completely different from the current ones, where vocational training is rewarded and not political friendship. A public television capable of presenting a program that reflects the sociological variety of Basques, that is able to offer answers, beyond what is politically marked by nationalism. And we are convinced that EITB can be something else and that it must be something else, and that we must get it to be something else, but, of course, not with Mrs Iturbe in charge. This address cannot follow the lead and command of our public radio and television, because yes, Mrs Romero, it is a question of who also directs this EITB, not only of the model, but of who directs now. Another alternative, another model alternative of EITB and another directional alternative is needed. Mrs. Iturbe...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u121	Yeah, I'm just finishing up... His obedience to nationalism and to the positions of the Basque Government is commendable, but his management has been terrible. And we fear that the damage to EITB may be irreparable. And I think everyone's positions are clear; the only one is EH Bildu's... I don't know who's going to come out, whether Mr. Urruzuno or who, but I should come out here as in the Oscars, with the surrogate, "and the winner is...", or rather in Basque, "txapelduna da...", because I think we're all waiting here for what your position is going to be... [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u122	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u123	But really think that another television is possible, but that, for that, a new direction is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u124	Please finish. Thank you. Collect EH, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u125	We'll stop the rehabilitation for the next round. And now a little, actually... Well, for five and a half years, that is to say, for the whole time of the past law, and for the last half-years or two years that we've been here, we'll discuss it for the fourth time about the resignation of Iturbe. For the fourth time! And I think it's already quite significant to reflect or describe what's happening in EIB. We may here continue to give favourable arguments, to contradict them, but I repeat: I think that data is rather meaningful in its way. I think... We are concerned about EIB's direction, and we are troubled with the ability to conduct the authorities, and the principles which appear here in the original law have been read and discussed, but I think they are quite forgotten in EIB, for a long time now. We are not Spain, we are not Sweden, we are not France or Germany, we are a nation without a state, which has a language, diminished. Iturbe himself used to say that when he came to give an account of the strategic plan, we live in an eloquent society. We don't live in an eloquent society, we live in a diglly society; it is quite different, and how EIB, too, can take a completely different view of how it is taken, and, in our opinion, has already taken it, and is altogether mistaken. Yesterday, yesterday... And when we speak of EIB, it is customary for me to give some example or other, and it is true: EIB provides facility for giving them such kind of engineers at regular intervals. Yesterday, the European Accounts Court published a report about a high-speed train. In Europe he announced a report of such diagnosis as this. We, the Basque People, wanted to make a rating of it. We wanted to build a balance because we think it's absolutely important to the subject and what this report says, and besides, seeing from what it is that, in itself, we thought that all the political parties, as the Government did, were like to give one's opinion. Well, we asked EIB to give us our opinion and he said no yesterday. He said no. That they would not receive the estimate of political parties, only that the government would do it. It looks like only the government can talk about AHTA here, right? It's a infrastructure that will be the most expensive in this community or community autonomous community, and we all know how long we've been through it and everything that affects it. Well, he said no. He said no. And the Arzi Tapia came out on her rating, and it looks like only in this town that Arzi Tapia can talk about it. Another example of yesterday. We find ourselves in a program, a program made by a producer... We ought to discuss this also, and the direction should reflect, when we speak of information's treatment and independence and neutrality and objectivity and such things, and whether such programs as are to be private producers, I think that this is an interesting matter to the discussion, well, because it's because it's the person who's supposed to be a productator who denies the conversation to a person who was supposed to be a man who had to be a T-shirt that said 'Suss free'. And my question is, does that have to do with the pattern or the model? "Esas decixes, señora Romero, señora Oregi, pros decisis respond a tala o cual model?" Model of Esquiestion? The Conn este model o con el otro? The banting of a conversation because it's running the "Suicide" thing? Does that suit you? No. That's the political impulsion. Eso es mplulso pollico. For then, as has been said here, it seems as if we were trying to close all the problems now, or to play the blind man in the face of all things, because there is a power to speak of the pattern of the future; But that has nothing to do with the pattern. It has something to do with will, with political will, and with the manner in which things are done. And there is no use in handling such things, or such decisions, and such judgments, if they are exercised in this direction. "Cambio de policion," said Mrs. Romero. I don't know, I understand; if not, I will explain to you that our position is clear: I think our position is pretty critical with EIB. I said we're talking to him about it for the fourth time. We talked about it three times in the previous law. Two times the political party of zero had brought it. 'Cambio de policion', I think he's in yours. That is, you spend your time in a very short space: Unde una strategy de acso y derribo contra EIB a una strategy de amparar y de apaudir... Then the Basque Country is clear to its position, it is clear. And I think we're gonna be cohere with what we've been marking up to now. The sociometer has been mentioned, and Mrs. Oregi says Mrs. Arana has a rather particular view. I think you have a particular view. One thing has happened with the sociometer that one is very ugly: that sociometer, that power, which you respect so much, was a sociometer for his own work. Before the members of the Poncian society had the results of this sociometer, EIB was almost thrown out by the report of every one or EIB. And he concludes very interested, private conclusions. It extracts the private ones. Because, as has been said here, that could have given him a lot of headlines. But he fails in the headlines, but even the way, a sociometer asked for as an instrument for a crime, before the people of that power took it, EITB was already spreading out into the four winds. Very ugly. How ugly! Other headlines they could give. It's been said that 56% of the... And 56 is the highest value that comes out of these polls, because when you ask all the others, whether it is tedious or entertaining, when asked whether it is a partidist or independent, when asked whether it is plural, all values are between 4.5 and 5,6, in the middle, in the middle. I'm a cabor, mediumcre. Medocre. I think EITB is at this rate, now among the eescal society. But the highest value, this 56, is because those who say it's the ETV Partidist for 56, ETV Particist. But every core that's given us at the ETV says it's close and close. What is the only public course we have, and that is merit? Near and close? When we have the only public media? We continue to talk of the example, of all this, and which has been discussed here before: The ETB Management is not capable of making a strategic plan, because it's changing sector, it's fragile, it's complex. We're not sure how many years of analog shadowing. We could have agreed to say that five years ago. And we know, even now, that it's very complex, because the new platforms have come in and I don't know what happened to the rights of sports, and I don't even know what happened with the names of football, because... We know all that! But to use the same excuse over and over again, and we also think it's getting pretty close to showing the same explanation. Many years have passed since the digital shade, and we practice congenerence and digitalization and over and over again, and in this sociemeter, when we speak of digitalization, we say that 73kitb.éus knows neither what it is nor knows what it is, eitb.us doesn't even know what it is, nor does he know what it is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u126	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u127	Well, I'm going to finish it. I still had plenty, but well... Well, that's what's happening, and we're seeing all this while we're talking about it, while the fat matter, the fat stuff that's being put out here, the fat stuff that's been going on for years, and that's still out of the way and that the management isn't capable of any solution to them, and the treatment of the news and the treatment of the information, is a complete "signatura pendist," and it doesn't mean to be bribed. You don't want to get bribed! There's a question of the planetal structure. Let's see how long it hasn't been defined. The EIB Manager can't even say how many people must be on his planet at this moment. Due to the disastrous personal policy which had been carried away at the time of the Ortuzar, where the mechantal contracts begin everywhere, they become 'indefifido no fijo' and there arises a chaos, a chaos which is no longer a master to govern it, which is still capable of governing it. And he doesn't want to grow up either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u128	Thank you, Unai. I generate art.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u129	Well, thank you. I'll continue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u130	Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u131	Yeah. Mrs. Oregi, I'm recovering well, thank you. Actually, I couldn't get there because of health problems. It was my partner Iñigo, who moved me, with pleasure, what was spoken there. I remind you that I know how to read and, in addition, I like surveys very much, especially if they are from EITB. Let's start here. I would like to thank the PP for the vote, and I would like to bring to the 'axis of evil', the 'dark side', the gentlemen and the ladies of Bildu, who I believe are closer than ever to reaching a historical fact and reproaching a Mrs Iturbe, who only occupies a chair and makes seven-page reports, one page a month. And to point out that the amendment to the whole of the PNV and the PSE, therefore, seems to us to be completely useless: one more exercise of filibusterism, which is nothing more than explicit support for Director Iturbe. A support that must also be assumed by the Socialist Party, which the last legislature repudiated Director Iturbe and which is now in charge of the management disaster of EITB, because it has decided not to do anything that would upset the PNV. An amendment calling on the EITB Directorate to take all necessary measures. Jolin, I would like to know what these measures are and how many are necessary to ensure plurality and involve the professionals of the house in accepting job profiles, among other things, and they do so a week after Mrs Iturbe came to the EITB Control Commission to say that she did not bring what she had been asked for seven months ago. I am referring to those main lines of the strategic plan in which they knew that, as everything was very changing, as reality is gomoid, we can do absolutely nothing. For, who wants me to tell you, another toast to the sun and another opportunity for Mrs Iturbe to continue to occupy the chair without understanding and without meeting the demands of this House, not to mention the absolute lack of concreteness on the necessary measures, not to mention the time limit so generous that they give her until Parliament fulfils the process of comprehensive reform of the institution... That we're talking about this legislature? Because, if this includes amending the law of creation of EITB, we can talk about two, three, four, five years; we can make a joke. I tell you, until three, four, or five years later, Mrs. Iturbe is still in her chair, taking a break, for making a folio a month. We are not at all surprised that the PNV does a determined defense of Mrs Iturbe and her team, because they are her team, and there they want her to continue, doing the work they have entrusted to her, in the service of the party, that is the work that Mrs Iturbe does, in the service of the party; very good, by the way, very good: in that we can tell her that she has a 10. But we are very saddened that the PSOE, with which we very much share the diagnosis and the solutions for EITB, is going to bend to this strategy today, and let go of the opportunity to reprove a director, who knows that she is left alone, that she has no project and that she is part of the problem, not to say that it is the problem, in capitals, large, phosphorite and with light... Because, if it is a question of finding a person to replace her, with a project of transition to the new model that we can agree on, our hand is extended to all political formations and to the Basque Government. We're not going to put a "but," but Mrs. Iturbe is more than proven to be out. And what can not be done is to hide behind an amendment today that does not involve but supports Mrs Iturbe and that, as you know, they are not required to do anything, nothing at all. Let me tell you that we find it frustrating and a tremendous irresponsibility and that it means giving up the possibility of change and solution. What Elkarrekin Podemos has proposed today in this House is to ask the Basque Government to cease an EITB CEO whose cycle has long ended. Allowing him to remain in office one, two, five, seven or nine... "We can continue, for I do not know, until it is jubilee," as I have already pointed out, "is a irresponsibility above all towards Basque citizenship and for the professionals of the house, who both deserve to open a new cycle and deserve a leadership that is up to the Basque public television radio that Euskadi needs: democratic, educational, transparent, participatory, with women, and that faithfully and rigorously fulfils the function of public service to which it owes itself as the first task. Mrs Oregi, let's talk about the sociometer; I love it. As Mr Urruzuno has already told you, the reading interested only of some data... The rest of the information is relegated to a brief on the EITB website. Curious, let us also relegate it there and not spread it, because, as the sociologist himself says, 73% of the people surveyed do not know it and 88% do not follow EITB on social networks, but we hang it there and we get so picky. We give the information we like, the most beautiful, we decorate it with flowers, and we forget everything. That is to hide information and it is to hide the information that this sociometer provides us about EITB, and that it confirms what we have been saying for a long time, point by point. I recommend that you go to page 18, because I was not, but I have read it, page 18, and that you read what Basque society asks of EITB: objectivity in information, plurality and that it be educational. None of the three things do. It can be contrasted with the following page, where respondents define EITB as partyist, non-educational, and non-plural. I don't think there's much more to add. And also if you want – because I have read everything – you can go to page 27: assessment of EITB's information compared to other channels, where, as discussed above, you will be able to see how 58% of the respondents consider them to be equal or worse than other channels. Well, if you're comparing it to Telecinco or some other chain of those that you like so much to compare to, then turn it off and let's go. And one last recommendation, page 47 – see if I have read it, Mrs Oregi –: opinion on the way in which the general address is chosen. You will find that what Basque society asks is that it be an independent body, that not only chooses but controls the action of it. Does that ring a bell? Because we've been saying it for a couple of years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u132	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u133	I'm done. Mrs Romero, you are voting against what you are proposing on Spanish Radio Television. I'd give him a ride there, and they're still in time to come to the 'dark side'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u135	I don't like the 'dark side'. I like to make things clear. He told me to face him and not hide myself. It is precisely to me, who has not spoken clearly, that he cannot tell me, on any of the occasions that I have spoken about EITB, on any of the occasions that I have spoken and that I bear responsibility in this Parliament. From the very first moment Mrs Llanos presented the initiative, when we were able to channel that comprehensive agreement from all of Basque public television, we voted in favour and we had the same speech. And we've done it in the paper as well. We have worked with you, with EH Bildu, with the Nationalist Party and with the People's Party, to that end, always; we have not put any obstacles, we have not voted against not once any of the proposals that have been made. to work with that goal. Not once. Not once! I have not been able to be clearer: we do not share the management model of Maite Iturbe; therefore, you cannot tell me that I have not been clear. What I'm telling you to do is imagine... Because, since he has not taken out the over Mr. Urruzuno, we do not know, we cannot speak." I have not told you, Mr Urruzuno, that you have changed your vote, because I do not know what you are going to vote for. So, I didn't mean you when I was talking about majorities or not majorities or opinions that could change. I don't know. Since I do not know what you are going to vote for, I have not been able to refer to you; do not give any thought to that. I still understand that in the second speech there will be an opportunity for you to understand what you are going to vote for and why you are going to vote for it. And I'll take it that way. But let us imagine that this is happening, because Mr Urruzuno takes out the envelope and says that he votes in favour of Podemos' proposal, that he can do so with the reasons he argues and with others; I am not going to be the questioner. What do we do if the majority of the Government, because there is also a majority in the Government, does not assume it? But what's more, imagine that he assumes it, imagine that he assumes it and there's no consensus. What do we leave leading EITB to someone this Parliament has not given confidence to? Is that the solution to improve EITB's public service? That's Elkarrekin's solution. Can we? The patches? Is that the solution? The solution we share on Basque public television is a broad, broad solution, ranging from the governing body to the way Basque public television is made, and you know it. And, precisely, it is the comrade – that of the strange fellow traveler – who has actually maintained that position here with regard to Basque public television always, but has not done so on Spanish public television, where he has had to put another president of the government in order to renew the council, and you know it too. And you know it! And, therefore, you cannot tell me that we are hiding, neither behind an amendment nor behind the presentation. I've made myself clear. And I told him what to do? Leave someone in whom we do not have the confidence of this Parliament? I don't like that patch. I want to reform the law so that this Parliament, with a qualified majority, chooses which direction is that and which public service parameters are used for that direction to execute them. That's what I want to do. And to do so not only for one legislature, but for several legislatures. And that's what I want to do in the reform paper, and I said it at the beginning of the legislature and I'm going to keep saying it and I'm not hiding. To tell the truth and be transparent is not to hide. What you can't do is say that you're working on a consensual solution within the paper and accusing those who share the reform model with you of hiding behind the paper, because you know it's not true. You know that's not true. That we have never hidden; we have never hidden, either in private or in public. Because when we had to talk about plurality, neutrality and hiring in EITB, we did it, in public and in private. So, I'm not gonna admit it... And Mr. Urruzuno, I don't think I put anything in your face, because I didn't know what I was going to do. If I think maybe it hasn't been seen in another. We're all looking forward to what's going to happen. I can't tell you. I have been reading all his speeches, of all the times that has been debated and that he said in the previous one, and in all of them I shared a little bit the speech, that the problem of EITB was not just the direction. I have read in one of his interventions that was not solved only by a change of direction, that EITB required a structural change, to help not only the editorial line to complain when they treat EH Bildu or the Socialist Party well or badly, but to meet all the needs we have been denouncing within and outside the paper: from the development of the professional career of the professionals, which is what gives plurality and neutrality when the information is made..., from that to the improvement of the audience, surely supporting more and better the audiovisual industry. That's what I said and, therefore, I don't hide or stop hiding. What worries me – and I say it again – is what we are going to tell all those people who are going to appear from this moment on in the paper, which we say, all those who support, which is a failed paper and which only serves to put Maite Iturbe under the paper. That puts itself in the justification of the initiative, and I do not think you think so, Mrs Arana, because I have seen you working on the paper, you and your group, but what you cannot do, after working on the paper, that is to say those who want to continue working and do not share your strategy, that we hide and that we have a greater responsibility. Our responsibility... –let me have listened to you carefully – our responsibility comes where it comes from. And I've described it to him since the previous legislature until now. That is our responsibility and we exercise it as best we can in this Parliament and outside it. And I, of course, to you – and to you in particular – will not tell you that that responsibility is with an unhealthy or boycotting intention, at any time. Never. He will not listen to me; I hope he will not have to listen to you again from the Basque Socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u137	Yes, good afternoon, again. And we don't have much time to answer so much, but I'll do a few things very short. First of all, Mrs. Llanos, I was listening to you, and I came to two conclusions: one, that you were describing to us what is happening, what has been happening, with Radio Television Spanish PP, and two, that you are very Angry at us. All right, that's where we stay. Mrs. Arana, sociometer. Indeed, the sociometer is not absolute values. You know how it is built, how it was built, how the questions were asked or how it was operational – let's say – and it was about making comparisons. We are making comparisons with the Eurobarometer, with European data, with data from other countries, with similar surveys of official bodies as well, and that is where we can draw conclusions. And, in any case, I also want to tell you that you don't know how to value what we have; you don't know. It is not able to recognize the values that this society has, the institutions that we have. You do demagogy. He makes personal assessments, totally biased. But it is that, besides, he reads the whole sociometer, with all the leaves, those that he has told me he has read, and he will realize that it is out of reality, that he does not know Basque society. But you don't even know your voters. Have fun reading what your voters say. What their voters say, because they value the EITB. Mrs. Arana, you know just like me, and they're not hidden; they're where they have to be. They are public, the sociometer is public; it is on the corresponding websites, not only on the EITB website, and has been made available to all people who want to. But I think that today the key has been collected, and that is quite clear. And this is what I want to say again that our hand is stretched out. And we're ready to argue because we know we have a lot of things, Mr. Uruzuno. There's a lot to talk about. And let's talk about all these things. Let us use the forum we have to speak of, not only of particular things, but of pattern. And I repeat: we confess that some things must be changed, and we are ready to commit self-criticism. We're prepared to agree to the strategic planning and find coincidences between us. Let's use all the forum we have for that, starting from the power. But there are others: the control-joiner, the administration-the relations between the half-a-row are there to discuss and agree with our views. And sometimes there will be discrepancy, but let's have a chance of agreeing with the points of view. I repeat the invitation to deep down this conversation. Let's talk about this strategic plan, Mr. Uruzuno. It's true that when the director came, he said he had only brought up the strategic furrows and that he didn't need to do things so long. But you yourself said that in that pod, perhaps, the way may be to make a short-term strategy, two, three, four years. Let's talk. Let's talk about it. We have pages for the moment; let's fill them together, co-work. As I used to say: we must see where we're going; we must think strategicly. I would also like to thank Mrs Romero for the very clear way in which she has made us see the scenarios of the future, the possible scenarios that we are facing in the light of today's votes. And I think that's important too. We have to see not only the outcome of today's vote, but what is the working strategy we have from that point on and what are the paths that are opening up. I say again: our hand is stretched out. We're ready to work, and we're also ready to commit self-criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Urruzuno, really, I think you should hire him... You must go to Donostia, to the festival of San Sebastian, to the reading of this year's awards, because, really, you can't give any more disease to the matter or more... Really, a presenter has been lost with you, because he has been able to make an intervention, in which we have not finished, I have not just seen... "I don't think the initiative is going to vote, but between itself and abstention, I just didn't see it," and the truth is that keeping that mystery to the end is not easy. I tell you that I believe that you as a presenter have no price, at least in these respects. Mrs. Oregi. Moreover, you see that Mrs Oregi has addressed you completely; now she is reaching out to the agreement. Now that, when it comes to other initiatives, such as independence in information and so on, then what for? Now, to get out of the way and let there be no cessation, we hold hands, but then now, for what? And then good, for to me, Mrs Oregi, I have said many times: I am in the Basque Parliament, in the Basque Parliament. You go to Spanish Television and ask for whatever you want. I'm here to demand that the TV here works as it has to. I am not angry: if I have voted the same always. I've ordered the cessation... Yes, yes, yes, I have requested the cessation of Mrs. Iturbe. But if this has been discussed, as they have said here, four times, up to four times. And you, if you realize it, have not defended management; you have done..., you have overflew, on the issue, because it is not capable, because it is impossible. It is impossible to defend this management. Impossible! But not only because of the audience data, which, as I told you, if it was only about the audience, considering that it is a public service, it would be almost the least important. It's just not about that. I'll talk about the sociometer later. And it's true that for different issues. And I'm here... Elkarrekin We can and we have it clear; there are others who do not have it so clear but for different issues, probably with different views, but many of the groups here agree that the situation is unsustainable and that the EITB Directorate cannot be maintained. And it is not a partial question, Mrs Romero; it is not. I understand and to see how I say it, because I appreciate it and because on many issues we agree and I don't want you to bother me, but to see how I say it without being angry. It's unsustainable. And you saw it as untenable as we do. And they keep seeing it just as unsustainable; they keep seeing it just as unsustainable, Mrs Romero. What happens is that you've had to say now that you can't change the model and that what we're going to say to those of the paper. For to continue working to change the model; it is that they are two different things, that can go in parallel, that one does not exclude the other. But one requires a job and the other does not admit delay. It's just that he doesn't admit delay since the last legislature. And it is that, far from improving or reversing the situation, it has gone to worse; it is that the situation of self-congratulation is going to be more. It's going too far! And in addition, Mrs Oregi here today has made a full reflection of what it is: "It is that you do not know – she tells Mrs Arana –; it is that you do not know, you do not know what you have". What they think about EITB. What has to go out in EITB? The ruling nationalism, the nationalists and others is that they do not know the country they have, as if in the country there were only nationalists and only people of the PNV; it is that they do not know the country they have. But look, you were talking about the Euskobarometer, but if there are people who have thought about ETB1 and recognize that you don't see ETB1, and you're thinking about how wonderful and wonderful it is ETB1 after recognizing that you don't see it. And he thinks about eitb.eus and he's never been in, ever. And it is true: here we talk a lot about the presentation, right?, and secrecy in the discussions of the presentation and there is no time for the Euskobarometer, say it in the EITB itself – or the sociometer, pardon – and take it to the board of directors. That's right, with a different reading than the sociometer professionals at the UPV gave here. Because, to my questions, they said – and as everyone here talks, because the secret of the deliberations is over –... On my questions, he said that there was much to improve and that many things were suspended. And the other day on the board of directors, the bells were cast on the flight in an exercise of self complacency that has no limits, and they said, well, because the EITB thing was, come on, outstanding, in an absolutely interested reading. That's right, what they didn't say was that when the Basques were asked if they would pay a canon to see EITB, they wouldn't pay. They wouldn't pay for it. Mostly, they wouldn't pay for it. That's right, paying Netflix doesn't have a problem. And, really, they wouldn't pay for it, when it must be television, and it has to be, the closest, the one that really reflects the news here, the one that teaches the culture of the country, the language of the country... It would have to be a television to which not only Basques had to pay 200 euros, which is what costs each Basque EITB, but to do so voluntarily. And they wouldn't. Why? Because you don't see it that way, because you don't see it as a public service, because it's very good, that's right, without seeing it, it seems to you that it's very good, if it doesn't cost me money. And what we should get, and that's not going to get this address at all, is that, even if it costs money, you're willing to watch that TV and pay for watching that TV. And that, Mrs Oregi, is not going to be achieved with the current address. Why? Because it's absolutely self-complacent. Because it makes an absolutely interesting reading. Because politics alone is given importance; that is, its policy, not that of others. Because the culture is gone, because the Basque is gone, because the women are gone, because the sport is gone. That's right. And it's more: when asked in that sociometer, what would you take...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u140	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u141	Politics. What would you take from EITB? Politics. What is it that most hours are broadcast in EITB? Politics. And that's a TV that connects to the Basques and the Basques? No, no, And whose ultimate responsibility is that? Whose? From the EITB Directorate. What to do? At the same time, work on the model and cease to this direction, and let there be a person who is able to bring EITB to what it must be: the television of all Basques, in which we all feel recognized and what is most important are Basques, and not the PNV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u142	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The EH Collect team, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u143	I am a machine tool assembler; I have two years left in this Parliament, and I intend to return to my factory; but, well, if you want to pass the report on to the director of the Zinemaldi, I think so too. At first, when time has been cut, I was told that there are some strategic materials, some fat materials, that lie on the table so many times, that there is no will or capacity, in the direction of the director, to arrive at it. I was talking about the treatment of the news, about the planatilla and personal policy, there's another business model that's still no way out or key to it, and we think it's the right thing to do as soon as possible. Mrs. Romero said if she came out, I'd love Iturbe's cesea, or, if she'd come to school, what should we tell her? For us, it's a matter of abandoning power. If we're in power, and what comes out of the vote today, we believe that power must continue because we're talking about it in power, because we're talking about the future model. But we said at first: There are other matters that are not connected with the model or pattern, and that is a matter of attitude, and it is an enditude, and it is a question of what you would like to use for EIB. We attribute this to the authorities, and we demand the authorities to change their conduct as quickly as possible. The question is, what co-operation is stated, but what we ought to appreciate is, how far the management itself intends to deal with this or that of the Chamber, or with the ponciferation, or what is his will to associate with his step-in-law. We've checked two LBPs lately. one of the strategic plans and the other of the professional career, and we were clearly told that neither of them intends to do anything. That's a will, an actitude. What's the attitude? What's the attitude? It's like being a model or something. What we say is: we know that the context of the visible sector is variable, transformation; it is variable, fragile, complex; thousands of factors enter that are not those which have been created 30 years ago. They increase the competition. We know that EIB now, together with a thousand chains, has to compete with telecinco and such. But that can't lead us to becoming more telecinco; this can't lead us to a more telecinco, and there seems to be a certain tendency. There's some in formats, frame and program, and things that you can do. For us, that's a serious mistake. EITB had two goals at birth: the cohesion of society, the retubation, the promotion of the eucalyptus. And these must really come to them. Today, however, ETB, there is a degree of dignity, and it is a dignity according to language. And that doesn't do him any good at all. So we should rethink the whole structure of the channels, or even the schema. We believe that it must be given place to the land of the eucaia. The land of Euscaria, not the Esquimia of Esquimia, but also the Nafarro and the North. We think it's a long way from Kapuscinnski today. And I mention Kapuscinski, because Iturb himself said that it was founded on the thought of the great Kapuluscinski. We see it far away. Management should reflect what I said earlier, for the fourth time we speak of the resignation of EIB or EIB. We're not giving the EIB Manager any white check. It could be the fifth time. And today, we're going to abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u144	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 20; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u145	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u146	So, because it's training, we're going to vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u147	As equality continues, for one more time... The seventh point on the theme list: "Reparation of the other Bill of Parliamentary Groups, concerning the measures to prevent the violations and crimes given in the environment, in the proper manner. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, representative of the EH team, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u148	Yes, good afternoons, and thank you, especially today, for the presence of the Security and the Department of Environments to give up this point. I think it's important, because it seems to me that with the proposal to leave today, you'll find a nice lot of housework. So, well, thank you for the presence. And the rest, though late, and well, though the last plone in the course, I'll ask you a little patience, because I think today that we have a good deal of eyes and ears to hear and to see and say, waiting for what we have to say to be decided. And from what I have learned, at least, the wood-keepers are listening to the margins that tend to the violation and crime of the environment, the members of the company of the Arrival, the groups which tend to the protection of the environment, and which I shall probably forget. We're here today on the work of a whole political course, which will be announced today and will seem unanimously accepted. And I am rather glad, for it was not a small way to get here; it was not tender. We have formerly had a fine collection of appearances, and having worked with many of the people who are in this sauce, and whom I have mentioned, which is a consequence of which, if all that is allowed here is done, we can at least direct ourselves to an accidental condition of environmental transgression and crimes, which is now our own. The point is that in the polls that the importance given to the protection of the local environment is very high. For 85% of our society, environmental protection is an immediate problem and a serious problem. But the rules and laws which we have established to protect the environment are often broken off. And before the breach of these rules and laws, the reply of the Administration seems insufficient. The subject of this legislature is not new: For the first time in the year, Dani Mazet's hand came in. That's Aralar's Bunch. Then the struggle against the surrounding parties did not exist, or at least it did not exist by the hand of the border, which was then demanded: Edges to create a unit for facing environmental assets, with enough, resources, to correct the situation. That unit 2010. in the year it came to be, looking at the environmental conditions with six corners, while Ares was the head of the Socialist department, and although in general he admitted that it was a step that people around it had not, as years passed, been able to solve the problems completely, did it not? Seeing that the created units had not sufficient ability to face problems, and that the crews of the local protections had been repeatedly accused, a proposition of another kind was agreed on in this parliament, which was then derived from mine by Llanos, did it not? And although this initiative was admitted to be true, it did not alter much, for instead of being in six corners, there are now eight persons in this unit or group. But... and as we have seen and known, they are not the only ones who are desecrated to the violations and crimes of environments, because, besides this division of the border, there is also a unit of mitokians, the three diputations have glasses, and the Eusal Agency, in general the Borders and the constables; there are different departments and techniques in the cities, and I am sure I forget a single one. But as every one of us who are about the subject may be seen, things cannot be much or improved in the last years. That's why we're planning on doing the theme from an integral mode or view, and we're asking for a collection of matches. Well, in the first place, we asked for the environmental protection teams (the Sun, the Ekologists in the March, the Zador alive), and, on the other hand, to come and talk to other people in different districts, to trouble or business, to the ranger, to the rangekeepers, to the environmental fiction, and to the presence of a medical department in the Basque Country University. When this gathering of ours was nearly over, the crews that protect the government demanded more releases, more to complete their point of view, and a representative of the City of Bilbo, and other representatives of the Dyban Division, and also of the Deputy Environmental Division. This, therefore, has been the great and vast number of groups which we have been able to analyse on the committee, and which I dare say has come to several conclusions from which we have come. We at first threw a hypothesis, and we at this hypothesis... And over and over again we said it seemed to us that from all the violations and crimes that happened, those who came to be tried were very few, that there was lack of means and that there was a scheme of coordinate. These were the axes of our hypothesis or our first hypothesis. And from what we've seen, they happen. Somehow, our hypothesis... It has been shown, that crimes, or the practices of criminal crimes, are many, and consequently are such as may be criminal actions; but that afterwards they are very few to be examined, and to be judged. Even the crews for the environmental armor said to us: The word 'inspicy' was repeated several times, that there is a sense of impunity, that is, that there is a violation of rules, or that, as they proposed to us, there is still a difficulty in making us talk about delinkuality in the environmental area; and that they know that the Administration does not succeed in following these crimes, and that they make use of it to follow this delinkence, does not it? It seems to me that I shall read a few passages from the district of Arria, from the beginning, that he set up his gnognostic foundations, or the gravest problems, or where they could go. I have chosen some passages, and he used to say: "In many cases, the administration's malfunction consists simply of a lack of response and of information or administrative reaction, following a complaint that is properly communicated and that is made by a person of the association who then receives no response. On other occasions, environmental complaints are not answered due to the lack of technical means and the difficulty in verifying the reality of the reported events. "It is essential to act immediately when verifying the veracity or consistency of the complaint. Simply put, the delay in the inspection makes it impossible for the facts to be properly verified and prevents the exercise of the function of environmental control and, subsequently, administrative or criminal sanctioning procedures." And many of these things. The point is, I think we've discovered the main problems, or the major problems that can be. What happens at last to accomplish this sense of impunity or this reality. And among the difficulties, I have received some here: I suppose you will share them, and on the one hand it is that the rules of environment are many, and that different administrations are given them. There is a great dispersion of hand, and in some cases there is confusion. This also was mentioned by the Chief of Heredias in Beltrán: that there was a definition of the boundary between rules and crimes, and that there was also an atom of jurisdiction. Then something that came out over and over: There's a stage of preparation, there's a special food factory. Some of them also spoke of their resources, and the rangers talked a great deal about it. And also, that there are often intermediary between their work and their courts, and that they have no relations directly with the prosecutors. He came back and forth, too, with the sound of protocol, the lack of processing, of operational tactics, and, like all of them, a remarkable system of coordination, didn't he? This was also said by the chief physician and by the various agents who participated in such cases. So that was evident: for all these reasons few cases arrive at the prosecutor's office, for instance. The intermediary, too, said that there was a poor political impulse, or that he felt in many cases. And even from the Ecomlogists, there were several other accounts mentioned, and, for instance, reports about poisons are being reported that the Euscal Autonomy is very backward and that there are terrible privations. Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoak has no plan or strategy to combat poison; there are no surveillance plans, no canine patrols, no specialisation of agents of the authority against poison, no resolution by the environmental administration, no precautionary measures or recovery measures, no well-developed regulations of its own, effective against poison, etc., etc. Beraz, Gabeziak Hor Zeuden, Age Nahiko Argi Ikusten Ziren, Ezta? Agerraldietan bath, bath Segurtasuneko saltburuak bath Ingurumeneko saltburuordeak era iragarpen batzuk egin zituzten, ezta? And in fact, the Security Advisor was talking about the development of environmental records to facilitate data collection, the execution of orders of service prepared forest fires, dumped in continental waters, etc. And that there were others in the process for crimes against flora and fauna, poisoned baits, etc. Eta berak ere aitortzen zuen that lacks coordination administrations, lacks protocols of collaboration and coordination, needs to improve response times. Well, I think we all had a feeling that there was a minimum of consensuation, and in this sense we were working with that valid synanomy we saw, and I was convinced that we had to try to get to a unanimousity, to be able to make everyone specific and to promote the government, to let the law clear what it was about. Therefore, in this sense, I am grateful to those who have been spoke in this matter, or have been responsible for the conduct they have placed in it; we have all left our petitions on the table, but it seems to us that what has been accomplished is not little. Is that a dena? And here's a little where we enter the part of the 'etxekolanas' for summer, to begin with, but this is going to have a tour, hopefully long and fruitful. Well, that's enough. On the one hand, we are talking about strengthening the group of environmental crimes and enhancing its research capacity by providing it with the necessary human, material, technical and training resources. But not only this with regard to Ertzaintza, but it is also a matter of deepening preventive work and bringing it to all police stations and training both eye inspection teams..., developing collection protocols for complaints lodged by individuals, which is one of the great shortcomings we have, that individuals in the end do not know how to develop well in these situations, because there is no clarity in the collection of complaints. The next item is the establishment of an inter-institutional committee, with the aim of presenting an action plan for environmental crimes within one year, in which, in addition to the other administrations involved, such as municipalities, parliaments, etc., the Departments of Environment and Security will be involved. And here we hope that there will be, well, that necessary cooperation and we hope that it will be fruitful, to which, of course, we will follow up this interinstitutional committee. And we also point out other issues that may come from the impetus of this government, such as the Environmental Agents Act or the urge for extraneous rules also to regulate the activity of these agents, which is another thing that is being demanded, for the development of the basic legislation of the State, as it is developed elsewhere, in some cases quite successfully, such as in Madrid, Catalonia, etc., etc. And finally, we also end with recommendations – we cannot go much further – to the municipalities and to the parliaments, so that, in their respective areas of competence and in the bodies that are destined for the investigation and prosecution of these violations of norms and of these crimes, they also put the human, material, educational, and so on, necessary means, so that we can remain..., well, so that we can be more effective in the future. So, well, the challenge remains here: obviously, there is a lot to do, but we believe that today we put a good pillar on which we can build a better building than we have now, which is better equipped and better coordinated. Just thank you again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u150	Good afternoon again. In Euskadi, today, only 10% of companies that do not comply with environmental laws are penalised; only 10%. And in Euskadi, today, only 20% of discharges are punished by identifying the person or institution or company responsible; only 20% of discharges are punished, and only 10 of the undertakings that fail to comply are punished. This situation that is taking place today in Euskadi violates the right to the environment that all people have and, in his appearance, Ararteko said that this right to the environment has three fundamental components: one, it is the right to environmental participation; two, it is the right to integrate the environment into public policies; and three, which is of interest to us, is the right to the administration to act and the laws to be enforced. And, therefore, not investigating environmental offences and offences violates people's right to the environment. But not investigating environmental offences and offences also entails impunity, impunity which is unthinkable in other crimes, but which, however, happens in environmental offences. And we must necessarily appeal to the immunity. We must appeal to the Emperor, because he has a right to protect the environment, and we must appeal to the immunity, by protecting the environment, because we are giving the essential step to build a just and permanent society. And we know how we have to play against the immunity. We know. We've heard hundreds of opinions on the Environmental Committee for the past few months, among which was the head physician of Security, the vice-president of Environments, the District Attorneys, the Woods, the Rangers, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And when we have heard these opinions, we know where the affairs are: one in the administration of conscience and sensibility, two between the administrative system of co-ordination, three resources as well as the edge, not just personal resources, but as well as those of municipal police, and four, the resources which are in the administration are not properly used, and we must talk about the woods. We know what the problems are, we know where they are and we have to recognise that in the pursuit of environmental infringements and offences there is a difficulty, additional constraints, which is that of having a complex legal framework, there is a competitive dispersion that does not exist in other areas of the administration, but we have to be clear that today we need many things that do not exist today. Lack of sensitivity in administrations; lack of means, and lack of training. And, above all, there is a lack of interinstitutional cooperation, because we have talked a lot about the lack of resources for the Ertzaintza, but we have to bear in mind that URA has 28 people, that forestry agents in Euskadi exceed 80 people, that environmental technicians in the Basque Government are more than 10 people in staff. Therefore, we cannot focus exclusively on Ertzaintza, as has already been said in some of the appearances. And, in addition, we have some agents, such as forest agents, who have the knowledge and who, however, are not allowed to do the work as they should today. We therefore know where the problems lie, and what we lack is an issue to which the vice-counsel on the environment referred in her appearance: it is moving from a reactive attitude to a proactive attitude. And I think I have perceived something of this step, of a reactive to proactive attitude, for example when the Security Adviser has referred to this issue. I asked him about the environmental unit at the Ertzaintza in May 2017, in an oral question, and he seemed to warn me that everything was fine, that everything was right. It was not so, obviously; then different actions have developed, and already in the appearance of the councilwoman herself in the commission, in November 2017, it seemed to me to warn a much more proactive attitude in recognizing that there were things that were not being done well and that could be changed. And I'm glad about that change of attitude. It is true that the first step to solve problems is to admit that there are problems. Now we know what we've done wrong and how we have to do it to end up with immunity. We all know how to do it and we've been able to write and sign it, all of us. And on this point, I want to thank Mr. Otero's work, for he has been the author and motive of this transaction, and merit is his, and I wish to accept it today and now. We know that it has been done wrong and how to fix it; we know how to fix it in order to avoid impunity in the pursuit of environmental violations and crimes. And if we have been able to write it down and if we have been able to sign it among all the groups in this House, all we need right now is to have the pro-active attitude and the political impulse – why not say it – to implement these measures to enforce the law, to enforce the law and to end impunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Especal Team Representative, Mrs. López de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u152	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. From the Group of the European People's Party, we have already expressed in this House our interest that the Ertzaintza has an environmental unit, with genuine environmental training and sufficient human and technical resources, a unit that has a real capacity to deal with environmental crimes. We have also said in this House that this unit must be adapted to the competences, the police model, the structure and the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza. And that it must be in coordination with the environment policy of the Basque Country. In addition, we have a model, the service of the Seprona, of the Civil Guard, a service that has been demonstrating its effectiveness. A consolidated model and a model recognized for their dedication and for their good doing. We see them, very close to here, acting. A unit in the Ertzaintza that could accommodate its structure and that its thing would be to create an own section of environment within the head of criminal investigation, at least initially, and of course it is, with endowment and relationship of structure, positions and functions. This is what we'd like. This is where I think we need to get to and we're going to get to sooner than later, but it seems like it's not the time yet. But I think it'll fall by its own weight. This was approved in this House and we approved in February 2015 at the initiative of the People's Group, an initiative which urged the Government to strengthen, consolidate, the existing group in the Ertzaintza, so that it becomes a consolidated structure, with human resources, with specific first level formations, with sufficient technical and material means to carry out its work, focusing on the protection of soil, water and the atmosphere, the conservation of species, flora and fauna, the fight against dumping and the pollution of the environment and the defence of natural spaces in crimes against land management and urban planning, as well as to increase collaboration and coordination with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with outside and local administrations, with full respect for their competences. The initiative that has been agreed today is the development of that initiative that was adopted in 2015, to which the Administration has not paid great attention; it must be acknowledged: no progress has been made. And we understand that this unit should be dedicated to environmental crime, which should specialize in the investigation of criminal groups covered by the Organic Law of the Criminal Code. And we're talking about crimes against natural resources and the environment. Crimes relating to the protection of flora, fauna and domestic animals. Crimes relating to nuclear energy and ionizing radiation. Crimes of risk caused by explosives and other agents. Or forest and non-forest fires. It is also important that the information, the complaint, the evidence, of a conduct or fact, before the Ertzaintza, mentioned in the Criminal Code, requires a procedure, requires an investigation, requires to contrast, to see the gravity of it, to frame it in the criminal field, the attestation and the referral to the Prosecutor's Office. All of this, we have to structure it, and we have to put agents with their functions. And also provide them with training. It is true that the Ertzaintza has at each police station specific personnel for surveillance and prevention in areas far from the urban centres. The so-called rural patrols – or, at least, I think this was their name – that have contact with the natural environment, are aware of many aspects in this environment and can be partners in surveillance and prevention. But these agents, which, from our point of view, must be taken into account for their cooperation in this environmental unit within the Ertzaintza, lack specific training in order to be able to carry out research, research and specific training in the environment. These training requirements were never required for rural patrol officers, so it will be necessary to provide adequate training to maintain and take advantage of the knowledge that these officers have and that is very important. Therefore, we believe that it is a value to take into account and in some way we have to adapt it with the courses that are relevant so that they can also collaborate. In addition to an adequate structure of agents in investigation, detection, attestation work, and correction of the deficit in agents specialized in criminal investigation. We believe that there is important work, and it has already been specified in the terms we agreed in the compromise amendment. We think that the inter-institutional committee is very important, because, from the People's Group, we think that the relationship between the environment and the Department of Safety is particularly important, and that the outside parliaments, as has been said here, have their powers and have their agents. Also the municipalities that have local police and that they lack enough training, that arrived an event, because the capacity of knowledge is noted that it is quite deficient, and that they have to be trained also in broad competences in this management of natural resources. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we have arrived at, as I said to you, speaks in particular of unity or of strengthening the research unit, the protocol, the Basque action plan. And then, as stated in point four, that "the Government is urged, during this legislature, to promote, in collaboration with the outlaws and respecting the competence of each institution, the basic legislation of the State through the appropriate laws or rules outlaws of bodies of environmental forest agents, so that these and these professionals can fulfil their functions and powers as agents of the authority, with due effectiveness". It is not a bad thing that we finally adopt and insist in this House that state legislation should be developed in this autonomous community through appropriate rules. I believe that we need environmental forest actors in full competition and, well, the adaptation of that legislation is essential, and it is essential to transpose it. We therefore support this amendment, as is the fifth and sixth point, which are recommendations, both to the Parliament and to the municipalities, so that they strengthen the knowledge, the training needed in the staff and that they train, train, allocate resources, so that these staff can act in the most effective and efficient way possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u154	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. In an initiative in which there is total unanimity and in which, in fact, it has been difficult to reach agreement but we have been – I believe – all generous, I will not insist on explaining everything again, because I believe that those who have preceded me in the use of the word have already done so and, in the end, it is being a somewhat intense plenary and it seems that we still have the last point. It is an interesting initiative, as Mrs Moreno, the Vice-President of the Environment, said, when she appeared in Parliament, besides being necessary, giving Mr Becerra the reason, because it is true that this is a matter of concern and on which there is still much to be done. I believe that we agree on the concern and, above all, on the need to act, on recognizing that it is probably an outstanding subject, although, as Mr Otero said, this one arrived in Parliament in 2009 and with Councilman Ares began to walk on this subject, although probably – as I say – more could have been done, or perhaps at that time that step was already important. And we also share the importance that all institutions have in respecting the competitive reality, that in this matter it does complicate management or has so far complicated management, because, even in the case of the police, in Álava there is the figure of the minion, that there is not in other provinces, and that, in fact, for those who are responsible for Ertzaina, this also makes it difficult to launch this special unit that we are going to demand through the initiative. The Socialist Group recognises that there is a need for improvements in the pursuit of environmental infringements, of course the need for training, as Mrs López de Ocariz said in her speech. But I wouldn't talk about impunity. I don't think we've allowed violations of the law. I do not think that the government – neither this one, nor the previous one, nor the previous one – has looked elsewhere, allowing the crimes to happen in the Autonomous Community, because in the end the data speak. If we had to talk about this last legislature, in 2016 there were 10 sanctioning dossiers, in the 17 there are 7 sanctioning dossiers, and in what we go from 18 there are already 7 sanctioning dossiers. I therefore believe that, even though we have not made progress as we are going to do in this initiative, I believe that we do take letters in this matter and, of course, the Government is concerned, in the two departments that are fundamentally involved, about the need for action and the need for action. There was also talk of the importance of differentiating between administrative sanctions and environmental crime, because it is different and, of course, the administrative issue is much more important than what is sometimes to be taken into account and, as I say, coordination between the two departments, that of security and that of the environment, is important. It already appears in the amendment which is likely to be voted on... – well, probably not, which is going to be voted unanimously – that these two departments will be part of an inter-institutional table at which each will have to contribute what corresponds to it according to its competences. On the other hand, it is important to involve the institutions, from the municipalities, where, in fact, complaints are often made, taking into account the competences of the parliaments and, as I say, the issue of the Basque Government. Control is important; it is important to be able to make complaints, of course to individuals, as Mr Otero points out, because of the difficulty that sometimes a particular person has of being able to implement these types of complaints, and the actions of the Basque Government – I believe – which are clear and, of course, a compromise. One of the elements that appeared to be in debate and that did not agree in those appearances was the role of the Basque Water Agency, URA. It was mentioned in many of those appearances and, in the end, we must recognize that URA is responsible for the authorization and control of discharges that occur at public channels, and it is also fair to acknowledge that URA acts at the end of the chain. The amendment that we have been able to reach – we said that we have all left hairs in the catera – I think it is an ambitious amendment, which contains commitments and, of course, which sets deadlines. In a year's time, in the last full-session of this Parliament's next political exercise, we will see what we have achieved in fulfilling this initiative; of course we will have fulfilled it. The environment in Euskadi will be more protected. Those who intend to continue to contaminate and delinquent with environmental crimes will have to know that, in fact, this does not... Come on, they're not gonna get away with it. As I say, I do not believe that there has been impunity; but, of course, the administration must also be able to give it the tools to stop environmental crimes. I therefore believe that we are making progress today, and of course it was important and necessary for this initiative to come out unanimously. And I also congratulate Mr Otero on his persistence, because of course we have been working on this for many months. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u155	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u156	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, the congressman, all the afternoons. Well, talking about the last thing is sometimes good for him, but today all of you who have spoken before me have said most of what I have to say. Even before today, as Mr. Otero has well said, we've had a number of scenes on this subject in the Security and Organizational Committee. And first, I think that, as you said, we'd taken a few results from the EH team, and then, as you said, to make the view a little wider, with groups of Socialists and other scenes that we'd asked for, we'd taken a pretty complete photograph of this matter. And therefore, even before we came to the discussion of this day, I think we had a sort of concentrated perspective about it. And then, finally, the closing of a middle-way always has its difficulties, but I think we've got plenty of progress, too, and I wouldn't say it was so difficult. And we've made it, I think, a good deal tonight. And I think that because we all give the importance of this matter, this agreement today is also a reflection of it. The violations and crimes which may occur in the environment, as has been mentioned, take a wide circle. Even the Representative of the Prosecutor said: I believe that he used the word 'divususususususo' in speaking of regulation, and also that these facts, which may be called a breach of rule or crime, are also very difusus. And even the head physician of the Security Department said that it was not easy in his own case to claim an administrative breach of rule, or an administrative offense, but a clear criterion of this kind. Then, too, it has been asserted that the euscal society is extremely sensibilized and compromised with environmental care, and that, even in the institutions, it is necessary to give a proper answer to it. And in all these instances on the committee, I'd say, it was the most remarkable thing about the co-ordination of coordinate, and so it's the most amazing thing that we've got in the middle of the process to encourage that co-ordination of the organizations, and make it work as best we can. That's why we're asking him to complete that international committee. At least, it's from fun, the Security Department and the Environmental Department, to make a plan for a year, and what all the organizations in these matters have to say about it are well received, and to give an easier answer to this matter. We also put a few jobs to the Security Department. It has been remarked that the unit which is concerned with environmental conditions, which is already within the command of criminal investigation and of judicial police, or of the principal office. But we demand this unit of strengthening by means of necessary means, both of man and of means. And not only this unit, but even in the police station, this first precaution, or the prevention, that the border should increase the units. We're also asking for formation. It is already given form, not only to this unit. The chairman of the department said in his statement, and mentioned in other occurrences which he has made about the working of the border, though there was a concrete unit that concerns certain objects, that the mode of working in the border is indirect or transverse. And therefore, though they that have the chief care to investigate, or to work in the presence of these Crimes, yet are they not given much enlargement of form in these matters, and other borderers? Then it has been mentioned here that it is very little sanctative: inpdrive. I don't know; the chief physician gave a piece of data in his performance: he said there were 730 charges from 2012. The fines given in proportion to these accusations are perhaps not many, but it is true that everything which is accused is not a transgression or a crime. And we have already mentioned that when we all define this difficulty, and perhaps what we are asking to-day is the improvement of this co-ordination, even when there is such an event, that those who care to approach it will receive evidence, and perhaps the reports that are made and the records that are made, will be even better, and the fine will be added to a greater part, which may be reported to us, and I believe that the agreement will be of the present day. Then it's bordering on other things, too, so that even protocols can be directed. She had already mentioned that in Beltán de Heedia there are certain circumstances which will make it easier for the citizens to lay charges on them, but that the files which are to be completed will come much more easily to the prosecutor and to facilitate their work. Then we ask, with all due respect, of the jurisdictions of the woods and of our historical territories, that this fundamental state of state may perhaps be directed, and I believe that in the countries it is necessary that the right should be allowed, and that the rules of these agents who are concerned about it may be improved or extended? It was also mentioned, on the other hand, that in the direction of the Director of Environments of the Arababa, when they have committed many breaches of rule, some of the people are not really aware that they are actually breaking the rules. That many others, too, make them very conscious, and then they thought them necessary education and information, and I think that even in this case there ought to be an effort in these matters. And in conclusion, recommendations to robbers and councils, right? Well, what I said was: and we have only to prolong our recommendations by considering their prerogatives, and our respect for them. On the one hand, let the municipalities of the police be placed in these matters, and to the Aldus, as we have said before, in order to provide for the resources which they require, as well as for the keepers of the woods, in order to be able to do well in this country. So, for my part, I would like to thank Mr. Otero because you were a little ahead of this subject, and we'd say, sir. I think it was quite easy to make a deal, and I think that in an entire party before summer, an agreement of a mouth is always good, and we hope our party will continue this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Well, since the discussion is over, we're going to vote EH Collect, the Basque Popular, together with Podemos, Eukal Sociialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u158	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team, the 29/2011 law of September, of terrorism for confession and the Integrator Protection. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Flattery, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the congressmen, all the afternoons. The otherwise proposal, which we are about to discuss, is to change the 29/2011 law of September 22, of terrorism in Biktimes for confession and Inegrator Protection. Today, with the proposal that we bring to debate and with the amendment negotiated with PNV and PSOE, an urgent issue is put on the table: the need to update the State law of victims of terrorism and to do so so so that all victims, all victims and to do so with equal right to truth, justice and reparation. Today, the victims of State terrorism have vetoed the right to reparation. Victims of violence of persecution are not recognized. Victims of a crime as serious as disappearance either. They must have always been protected by the law. All persons have the right to the presumption of innocence. A fundamental right in a democratic State. There should be no more to add, it should be so simple, so clear; moreover, that proposal that we are trying should not even exist, but you see, here we are. After receiving a letter from the Basque Government informing the victims of terrorism that they could apply for recognition and reparation under Law 29/2011, when exercising these rights they found themselves denied by the Ministry of the Interior. It is when they are aware that, through the Law on General Budgets of the State for 2013, the Spanish Government, with an absolute majority of the People's Party, introduced into the Senate an amendment to this law, excluding from the right to reparation those victims who were believed to belong to a terrorist organization or who allegedly committed violent crimes, even though their guilt has never been legally demonstrated. In particular, a very specific interpretation is made of article 8.2 of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crime, which states that compensation may be reduced or abolished if the victim or applicant participates in organized crime or belongs to an organization engaged in violent crime. Logically, this provision can only be interpreted in a State governed by law from a guaranteed prism, that is, in which one is a criminal only after a final judicial decision. So simple, so clear. The presumption of innocence is a fundamental right, which is protected not only by the Spanish Constitution itself, but also by the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All of them – I would like to recall – international treaties and agreements ratified by the Kingdom of Spain. But unfortunately, certain victims have been denied reparation, and have been denied, not only by the executive branch, that we all know that they can attend to politically intentional interpretations, but, and what is most serious, they have also been denied by the judiciary, and I do not say all this. The professor of criminal law of the UPV, Ignacio Muñagorri, in his opinion on compensation to victims of terrorism, complains that this is an interpretation – and I quote textually – "degradable and illegal of the European Convention, which is falsely instrumentalized, that it voids it of guarantees in relation to fundamental rights, basic budgets of a State governed by constitutional law, breaking with the division of powers and turning the administrative sphere into a judge without being a judge". But Muñagorri goes even further, and concludes that such is the gravity of the violations of law that have been detected and sufficiently demonstrated, that the offence of administrative prevarication of article 404 of the Criminal Code could be applicable, which indicates that "the authority or public official who, knowing of his injustice, makes an arbitrary resolution in an administrative matter, shall be punished with the penalty of special disqualification for employment or public office for a period of seven to ten years". Also, the former vice-president of the Constitutional Court, Adela Asúa, criticizes that, in the absence of a legislative decision to transpose Article 8.2 of the European Convention, the judiciary legislates and generates uncertainty; that is, the judiciary legislates, says Asúa, the executive judges, says Muñagorri, what is missing? What will be next? That the legislature rules? What is obviously missing here is a real division of powers and what is left is any political, biased and illegal intentionality, apart from any Community and international canon. I would like to live in another, as I said, I don't remember the name..., I have a dream, I would like to live in another state. A conquest of civilization in advanced democracies is the subjection of public authorities to state norms and international conventions – now I remember, Martin Luther King – and also to the ethical values that sustain it. When, on certain occasions, basic rules and rights are cornered, even if this is applauded by some and silenced or concealed by others, the public authorities should see how these red lights, these alarms are lit; reflecting and rescheduling the legal limits does not mean being weak; but, on the contrary, strong in convictions, we will only have credibility to demand democracy from others. I am not an expert in law, but I would like to tell you that article 24 of the Spanish Constitution provides that everyone has the right to the presumption of innocence. I would like to tell you that Article 10 of the Magna Charter also regulates that "the rules relating to fundamental rights and freedoms recognized in the Constitution shall be interpreted in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international treaties and agreements on the same matters ratified by Spain". I would like to tell you that article 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "every person accused of a crime has the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty, in accordance with the law, in a public trial in which he has been guaranteed all the guarantees necessary for his defence". I would like to tell you that Article 48 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and of the European Convention on Human Rights states that "every person accused of an offence is presumed innocent until his guilt has been legally declared". In short, I would have liked to tell you that we live in a State where fundamental rights are preserved above assumptions, but this has not been the case for certain victims. And let no one think that this is a minor issue, but that all the victims of terrorism – and I say of all terrorisms – have the same rights. That they are considered victims, that there are no first and second victims. That human rights violations have the same response of truth, justice and reparation and, of course, guarantees of non-repetition. By the way, guarantees of non-repetition by whoever the perpetrator is, also in the case of State terrorism, even if that State has not made self-criticism or self-reflection. Even if that state doesn't do anything to investigate. Although administrative prevarication is being committed, as I have mentioned. Although the presumption of innocence is denied politically and judicially. That is why we have no alternative but to propose to the General Courts the amendment of Law 29/2011, to expressly regulate that reparation can only be reduced or abolished, if it is established by a final court decision that the victim has participated in organized crime or belongs to an organization that has committed violent crimes. I insist, it shouldn't be necessary, but in sight it is. It's all over, but it's not. Should it be that simple? Yeah. That clear? Also. But please let the General Courts, which are theirs, judge the courts, rule the Executive. Montesquieu said, "Every man who has power is inclined to abuse him." In order for power to not be abused, power must be stopped by the disposition of things. Separation, in theory, prevents the political power of the State from accumulating in a person or group of persons. In this way, the surveillance of the three powers is entrusted to each other, since each one monitors and controls the excesses of the others, in order to prevent by its own ambition that one of them prevails over the others. It is the fundamental quality that characterizes democracy. Are we? Are we a democracy? I am not going to go much further, but I would not like to finish this first presentation without making a brief reference to the other points that are being discussed today and that we are announcing that our parliamentary group is going to support in its entirety. More specifically, we welcome the initiative to urge the Basque and Spanish governments to put the means at their disposal to provide victims who are unaware of the truth, and even the location of the remains of their families, with access to all the information they require. Good, but this clashs head-on with the amendments tabled in the Congress of Deputies to the amendment of the Official Secrets Act. If the documentation is not declassified, how will it be possible for victims to have access to all the information they require? This reflection leaves her there, I hope it'll do for something. Finally, I am glad; it seems to be blowing up again in favour of people who voluntarily want to embark on a self-reflection single, in favour of the victims and in the key to repairing the damage caused. And I mean restorative justice. Restorative justice, which it would not be necessary to resort to if there was a real, equal justice for all, which would be judged in accordance with the principle of proportionality, the principle of legality and the principle of non-arbitrariness, because the rule of law does not win, does not humiliate. The rule of law applies the law. Incorporating restorative justice into the law of victims would take advantage of a good wave, but not the end of this race. We still have many restorative miles to go through the waters of Basque society, especially taking into account the community implications of political violence. It will also be necessary to explore the usefulness of other mechanisms, of other kinds of justice, which is why I advocate restorative justice. A justice that allows more perpetrators, more victims, more perpetrators of victim offences, and other social and political actors, other scenarios. Scenarios such as the circles of peace, municipal forums, safe spaces for dialogue. What space for safe dialogue do you need? If it's not this one, we can go anywhere. But the point is to talk, there's no more guns. The excuse used to be the guns. Then it was that ETA had not been dissolved. When are we gonna talk? If you don't put the ideas on the table and on the paper, what we're going to deal with. If laws are not respected equally for all people, what kind of society are we going to build? And with this reflection, I leave it there, but of course it seems to me that today, I think it's going to be a sad day. I have not listened to the rest of the Members of Parliament, but, because of the attempts to reach agreement, I believe that today is going to be a sad day for democracy, a sad day for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone. For us, the law of the victims of 29/2011 does not offer the proper frame for the confession and observation of all the victims. The application of this law, as it clearly appears, first precedes certain victims. and, more precisely, the rule of this law violates the principle of equality with the victims. Erregelamenduak esaten du: With this regulation, "Spain leads at European and global level, a system of comprehensive care for victims of terrorist attacks". Full attention, but immediately exceptions are imposed, because there are victims and there are other victims, because there are terrorist attacks and other terrorist attacks, because there is attention, but there is also immediate neglect. This regulation, explained by Mrs Zabala, arbitrarily introduces, out of context, out of context, without timely transposition, a provision of the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violent Crime, which in article 8, as Mrs Zabala said, states that "compensation may be reduced or abolished if the victim has participated in organized crime or belongs to an organization engaged in violent crime". Based on this, General Director of Terrorism in Terrortime denies the compensation that he considers victims as members of the terrorist organization. And how does he feel they're terrorists? What's it based on? The result of a sentence? No. Through a judicial process? No. In a police report, after a long decade of killing this person, the Civil Guard and the National Police report is established that this person was a member of AND identity. A member or something. Adibide lotsagarri eta mingarri bat ekarri nahi dizuet; izane ere, Barne Ministryak ukatzen of Josu Muguruzaren eskaera (Herri Batasunako deputy, 89an hildakoa). Argudioa: "According to reports issued by the Directorate of the Civil Guard and the Directorate-General of the Police of 12 and 28 December 2012 respectively, Josu Muguruza had been a deputy of Herri Batasuna, an illegal party in 2003." That's because he was killed in '89 in 2003, he was part of a hairized party. This article says that "dellincuencia orgizada o pertencia a una organizaón que se dedica a perpretar delitos violentos" conditions. The victim, through this application, is the victim. This victim would have done something because he was of the origin, or that he was of the Union. This victim, according to this interpretation, might have been worth it. What happened to this victim was perhaps just, or not so unfair as to deserve compensations from the Ministry of the Interior. The broad said that Ignacio Mugnacio Laguí did a dictation, not only did it, but stayed here on the Human Rights Committee, and I'll say more: it was an anthological show because he had been a masterpiece and because his arguments were really round. Mr. Carmelo Barrius was present in the scene, and could not oppose Muñana with arguments. I don't know what he's going to tell us today. You mentioned issues that are true of what Mr Muñagorri said. I would also like to offer a list of rights violations which he presented in this opinion: It seeks the right of presumption of innocence and, therefore, the fundamental right to effective judicial protection; the principle of legality; the principle of legal certainty; it violates the division of powers and the prohibition of arbitrariness, resulting in these denials of reparation to victims being illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory and their prevaricatory application, as you have just said, because it applies to the knowledge that it is manifestly unfair. Imagine the treatment of other victims, if this same treatment had been given to other victims; imagine the scandal. There would be talk of double victimization, humiliation, insult to the victims. Well, these are the circumstances and, in this case, in which we are dealing now, under the authority or responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. The victims of State terrorism are condemned to continue fighting, condemned to continue fighting for their rights, condemned to continue demanding what is theirs, condemned to face the systematic denial of the Ministry of the Interior, condemned to defend their rights before the National Court, the High Court or the High Court... the Constitutional Court, condemned to exhaust the Spanish judicial system and, in view of the impossibility of receiving justice, condemned to go to the European Court of Human Rights. And justice will come to you, or not. Or it'll be late. That's why I agree with this initiation Pili Wide brought us. I agree with the statement that appears at the first point. You need a change in this legal frame. But we thought, further than this statement, that these victims, which we considered, need a practical protection, a material protection, a substantial protection, and thus we were willing to offer them. What was the correction of our addition on that second point. We thought we ought to help them in front of this arbitrary power, that we should feel ourselves close to it, that it was necessary to smooth down the cost of this process, the expense it has, its economic damage, its personal burden. And that's why we're going to run to the M.M. M.M.M., they're the ones that made these charges, these costs, these damages, these cargoes... To relieve. And that's precisely why we filed a correction to add, which appears in that middle line that you've signed today. I'd like to discuss some other corrections that PNV introduced to PNV or the PNV. At the third point he asks to confess the victims of the chase, the law of the victims. to change the article. It doesn't say the victim of persecution ('víctimas de persecución') what changes they'd be worth. And I don't think the whole universe of the victims of the chase is considered in this respect. Marquelo was a Mount of Olives, and he told us that he too felt persecuted for his professional practices or for his work or for his opinion. And I don't think, either in a change of law or in this term, when you open this term to confess the victims of persecution... I don't think they'll get in. So I think we need to rent it up and we'll have to keep working on it. In the second place, justice is also spoken of as the primary, or as a matter of treatment, and we prefer to speak of the transitional justice. And we think that it is an instrument of translicative justice, or a part of this pre-reservative or Reservative justice. And these victims which we are speaking today, the victims of the state's victims, I think they have no prisoner, they have no appetite, they will be reconciled to them. To whom these victims must appeal if they wish to make a demonstration, because there is no justice, and that is because there are no prisoners in this sense. Moreover, the prisoners of Eascal, I think, deserve to be treated in their rights; and that by an exceptional law they ought to pass to a common law, or to a law by which peace is established. This point requires more modification, so I'm going to abstain from it. Let a positive abstinence be taken, a builder; I am not against it. I think we must continue to discuss this, to place these shades here. And we think, moreover, that we have a labour in power to cultivate these points, and in some measure to arrive at a greater harmony. We agree with the fourth point. We assume that all the victims and victims of the state must know the truth, and that in this respect the declaspation of the archives is necessary. I understand what you're asking for at this point, whether it's desecrating all these archives. We'll see, too, how much development this will have. If, then, there is at least a problem, we should leave at the first point of second and fourth, and proceed with the abstaining of the third and fifth point, as I say, with a builder, in order to support this enterprise and these victims, in the hope that they will be grateful for our position. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u162	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Well, I think it's been explained enough by Mrs. Zabala... It is true that this initiative was presented outside the paper. The motivation is concrete and clear. To us, it seems a fair claim. We understand that the comprehensive law on the protection of victims of terrorism has clear objectives: comprehensive care on the basis of the principles of legality and equal treatment and the pillar that safeguards the dignity of victims. Well, the modification that was made in 2013 – we believe that through the back door – called into question some of the bases of that equality and legality by excluding the right to financial benefit to those victims who are believed to belong to a terrorist organization or committed violent crimes. And we Socialists believe that it is incompatible not to respect legality and equality in a rule of law and that it is necessary, in fact, not to talk about presumptions, but to have a firm judicial decision. If it affects legality, not having such a final judicial decision or not requiring such a firm judicial decision, it affects the lack of equality, as well as the dignity of life of all victims of all terrorism. This is the case described by Mrs Zabala; it is unfairly caused to the relatives of those affected and, as we have told her in private and in public, we share that claim. In addition to being in favour of this ad hoc amendment, requested at the outset by the proposing group, let me stress that for the Socialist Group it is a reason for satisfaction that this last debate in this parliamentary course will result in a broad, albeit not total, agreement on the victims of terrorism on all terrorism and violations of rights. It is true that what we are discussing in public today is shared in a more discreet forum, which this House decided a year and a half ago to work on all these issues. It is true that we have spoken of this ad hoc amendment, that amendment of the law and other laws. We have talked about more proposals; we have talked to each other and we have listened to each other. But, above all, I must say that we have listened to the victims in that presentation as well. This task, in part, has been decided to make it public by bringing it to this plenary. And it also offers – I believe – a positive part, as it is the occasion to show that this forum so questioned and persecuted, the presentation of memory and coexistence, is more effective than some would like, and that the work in discretion and loyalty, much more practical than the effectiveness of the headlines. From an initial point of view, perhaps the initiative was restrictive. The Socialist Group, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, decided that it was our obligation to complement this initiative with a number of proposals that have also been mentioned. And we did it because, despite getting out of the paper, we believe that the victims, indeed, as we have sometimes reiterated, are the real lever of change that must be at the bottom of all the policies of memory and coexistence, and they have always been for us. They were in the past to achieve this law to which we refer today and also agreed on this same date another law 10 years ago, in June 2008, which was the Basque law of care for victims. And let me stop for a moment in that memory: that June of 10 years ago we got that law by taking a step forward on which it regulated the aid that these people were to receive. We did it in a political climate of enormous polarization and division. We did it, some emptied, when we tried to overcome the immense pain of the murder of Isaiah Carrasco. We did it when, still crying, we were accused of betraying the victims from the media and political forums and forums. Why not say, it wasn't easy, and it's not easy to remember. But it was possible; just as it was then possible, it is now possible to further improve the care laws for victims of terrorism. At that time, it was approved with all the groups that were present. The Abertzale left did not participate in the vote; however, today they have put an amendment that has been included in the transactional, in which it is requested that the victimization and economic burden of the victims who have to be subjected to a long judicial process be helped and mitigated. Therefore, it seems to us to remember what we have done before, but it also seems important to remember what we have done since then until now, which have also been important changes; because, from our differences and despite them at times, we have reached an agreement, which I believe is derived from this proposal which will be put to the vote: that of the necessary recognition and reparation of the victims, who should never have been, because there was never a reason to justify neither their annihilation nor their persecution, nor any of them. We were reminded that this restriction took place in the Senate through the back door, just as the victims of the violence of persecution were denied consideration in our lives. You know that we have been the socialists and the socialists quite insistent on this issue, because it is not about counting how many victims they were, but it is about telling what the victims of persecution really suffered. Let me make myself a description of a person I know, and who does not want to be public, of what was supposed and involved the violence of persecution: "It was not exhausted in the paintings, in the pasquins or in the target; for me it was much worse what was added, the contempt and the social apartment; I deduced it from the rumors, the disqualifications, the gossip, the pushes and the spitting. I felt like I was being watched. They emptied me inside; they made me feel like shit; they canceled me and changed my life forever. They changed mine and with it my own." Believe me, I can imagine this situation: if you are someone you become something, imprecise, separate from your surroundings, from your roots; you feel doomed to live a tragic anomaly of being removed from a society to which you belong, from friends and neighbors with whom you grew up. We understand that the recognition of these victims of the violence of persecution, as I say, genuine torture of thousands and thousands of people in the Basque Country, is not about being quantified or counted; they must be repaired and recognized, in the damage they suffered and in the consequences that such damage has had for them and for Basque society. That the victims of the violence of persecution must have their place and must have their truth, a truth and a reparation that also goes through to compensate those other victims, families who lost loved ones and who cannot even go to put flowers in a cemetery, not to cry or to cry the wounds, not to feel the pain, not to tell or cure it. They are the families of José Humberto Fouz, Fernando Quiroga, José Juan García, Eduardo Bergaretxe or José Miguel Etxeberria; they need to know what happened and where their remains are, they need to complete their duel, they need to know to be able to rest and, I would say, to be able to sleep and to die without so much absence. And finally, another will that has also moved us many victims and that we introduced in the compromise amendment, that those who caused that unjust suffering to the victims say that it was always wrong and that there was never reason or justification to protect that suffering; it was never justified. There are paths to this, paths that reflect the restorative justice processes, which, having as its axis the protection of the victims, can help a great deal in this recognition of the damage caused; in short, we are thus, today, in part, ahead of what we had on the agenda the groups that we participated in the presentation. We could have brought this proposal together with the rest of the proposals, which we will see at the end of the work, but at least serve this debate to convey to the victims the clear and clear message: that they are a focus on which we have been working for a long time and that they are the focus on which we want memory and coexistence to be built in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims never wanted to be victims, because they do not choose to be victims; the vast majority, moreover, have never made their status as victims either the motor or the essence of their lives, although they are victims, it is true, that they have changed them and changed them forever. The victims have travelled a long journey through the desert in this country, from nothing to the majority recognition that they have today in institutions and in society; the victims are many and different, as many as the unjust sufferings that were caused to them, and those victims, in a broad consensus, have told us that they do not want anger or revenge or resentment; they want truth, justice, reparation and memory. That lack of pain and resentment of the victims after so much suffering and forgetfulness is their great moral victory and their particular reconciliation. For all this, they are our indispensable lever in all policies of memory and coexistence, and they will continue to be. The victims are the mirror that does not deceive, the one that shows the most dramatic consequences of the countless suffering we have lived with in our country for so long; that is why we have tabled this compromise amendment, that we are satisfied that it will be adopted and that we look to the future since that agreement has been reached, in the hope that it will ever be widely shared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u165	Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. I, too, as it has happened to my friend Mrs. Beragon, who is my teammate, do not cease to speak of the last, and to be followed by those who have signed a middle-condition, will lead me to a short conclusion, and I tell you beforehand, that at this time I shall not exhaust my time. Victims, rights, memory, truth, life, justice, prison policy, confession... In order to speak calmly and efficiently of all these matters, we created a power for memory and co-operation. And that's where we've been spending eleven hours these last few months. Different people, many thoughts, have heard and shared different thoughts. We are giving last touches to the consequences of each group in these days. For the next few weeks or months we will try to share and share all our thoughts in common; and we shall even try to agree upon at least the deliberations and resolutions. We put in that camp the proposals which we brought to us today to discuss. All these have been and the same, and will be among our works. It's true that these victims who suffer wrong discorders want to see their problem solved as soon as possible. And they're right too. It's been four years since Euskal Country University Kateda introduced the report I had promised her about this subject. Four years and the trouble, if you don't fix it, it's worse. The rights of many victims of terrorism are being violated by the State in an interpretation that is no longer restrictive but in violation of rights and discriminatory. In the words of Professor Muñagorri quoted above, in an ignominious, falsifying and prevaricating interpretation. This situation was already denounced in the Human Rights Commission of this Parliament in April 2014, on the grounds – as I said – of the presentation of the report of the Criminal Law Chair of the UPV-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. And since then, four long years, this situation has not only not been resolved, but has been aggravated. And if it were not for the double victimization that this action of the Government of Spain is causing in many victims, for the added suffering, even for the real economic failure that is causing them, the agreements that the plenary of Parliament is going to vote today should have been part of the conclusions of the presentation of memory and coexistence. That was our wish; our wish was not to have to demand the amendment of the law of victims of terrorism; our wish was for the Spanish Government to correct motu proprio I hope that the new open time in the State will also serve to correct this discriminatory and unfair situation. I hope that these victims will be guaranteed their right to reparation; I also hope that it will be done soon, the sooner the better. The victims have been exposed to an unjust state for many years. Besides, there have been attempts to silence this situation. We are now facing a new period in the States, and this time may be taken advantage of to honor and observe all the victims of terrorism. We'll build a strong partnership, if we work honestly, legally, and simply following the principles of equality and discrimination. I therefore hope that, in the coming months, also in the presentation of memory and coexistence, we will be able to agree on a solid basis on which to build future coexistence. Our determination is to reach an agreement that, based on the recognition of the injustice and suffering caused to so many victims, allows us to share short- and medium-term policies on memory, coexistence and human rights, because all victims deserve everything from us. Our commitment is to help achieve this, the sooner the better. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u166	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. He may like it more or less; we are talking about a question of law enforcement. Enforcement of laws that have administrative decisions in one case, and that also the application of laws leads to judicial decisions in another case. I say again, that they may more or less like the laws and decisions emanating from those laws, but that they are there and that they are part of the legal order and the application of the legal order. And that can have alternatives. The text, as they put it, cannot be approved by my group. We will make an approach to the location of the initiative where it is appropriate, from our point of view. And that, for three reasons: Firstly, we believe that this is not the place, the Basque Parliament. A non-law proposal in the Basque Parliament calling for the reform of another parliament's law, isn't it? It is the Congress of Deputies where issues such as the one you raise need to be discussed. Such an initiative could be presented here, if there were no other ways of changing the legal order, of changing the laws, of improving or reforming the legal order that we have. And we could talk about those issues. But there's a chance to talk about reform where we have to, in the Congress of Deputies, right? Look, Law 29/2011, on Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, was a great law; it was a democratic milestone, fruit of a great agreement. A law of Congress, and that's where that law can be changed or not, where you can talk about its virtuality, its validity, its needs, its shortcomings... It's pretty clear. And, Mrs. Zabala, you said you have to update it and you can do it. They have instruments, some of their fellow speakers seem to suggest the work in it. But, second, all of you, who are signatories to this initiative or who are going to support this initiative, have parliamentary groups in Congress, where you can carry out the amendment of the existing legislation, as it is in that normative area today. Not only parliamentary groups, Mrs Romero, have a government that can also have legislative initiative to pass bills amending laws on this issue. In other words, there is legislative initiative. And in addition, all of you, signatories of this initiative, have also built a political majority in the Congress of Deputies that can also be expressed in terms of legislative reform or parliamentary initiative. And there is no doubt that, in Congress, my parliamentary group will also work to approve any amendment that improves any law. If there is an approach, as it happens, we will talk there and the groups will talk about changing the needs, the opportunities, the shortcomings, the limitations of any law. And there will, of course, be important issues in this area that can be raised, through the proposal of a law, as we have said of the Government, through a bill or through amendments to a bill or a bill in a process of amending Law 29/2011, but they will have to be raised there, in the courts, and the debate there, subject to a form and substance analysis. We here, in this process of this non-legislative proposal, which does not reform the law, will vote against the initiative on a question like that which I have explained, fundamentally in form. We cannot regulate and why we will urge when there is legitimacy to drive this debate in the General Courts, in the Congress of Deputies. Better body to call for regulatory regulation than a legislative initiative does, and there are possibilities to ask for legislative initiative and to arbitrate it where laws can be and where they are reformed, this type of legislation to which we are referring. That is why, Mrs. Zabala, Mr. Pablo Iglesias or Mr. Esteban or Mr. Matute, or Mr. President Sánchez, you will have to ask them... I suppose you will have done it for yourselves; I think you will comment on it in the reply, because as I am talking about the procedure in the General Courts, in the reply you will talk about yes, that you have already signed certain initiatives or that you have contacted the group there to articulate those initiatives and to promote that parliamentary debate. I suppose you have spoken to them and asked them yourselves to formulate the appropriate initiative. I say again: a bill by the groups, a bill by the government – it's clear, isn't it? – to reform Law 29/2011. That is to say, they have maintained some contact in this regard with the current Government of Spain, with the President of the Government, with the Minister of the Interior or with the parliamentary groups to forge a parliamentary initiative, because you will say so, because a GNP does not reform the laws, because a non-law proposal does not reform the laws. It is reformed by legislative initiatives. And third. There are also difficult issues: how is it credited by a firm court decision that a terrorist – I say in general terms what can be an interpretation in the keys to the first point – who dies from the manipulation of a bomb in a terrorist attack, from a confrontation with the police, from a suicide attack, from jihadist, how it is believed to have belonged to a terrorist organization, if it was not tried before for those reasons, or for reasons of its membership in that band. That is, can these terrorists who have participated in these attacks and have not been tried but who belong to a terrorist organization be recognized at some point as a victim? Is there any leftovers? How do we regulate that? For that is what we need to talk about or we could talk about in some parliamentary debate. We already know that those cases that I have said are not your case, Mrs Zabala; we already know. But some form of analysis of these specific cases will be required in the legal formulation that can be considered where appropriate. His brother was the victim of a terrorist organization, a brutal terrorist organization called the LAG, and that is clear. And you will have to regulate your case, but not here; that crime or similar crimes can somehow be regulated in recognition, but not through a non-law proposal; it will be through a legal, political, regulatory debate, in the Congress of Deputies, in the analysis of legislative reform. And in addition, within the application of the laws on which we rely, there are decisions not only judicial; there are decisions that are based on administrative decisions or police investigations that can also have legal effects. In other words, judicial decisions have them, but administrative decisions or police investigations, police decisions, prosecutors, as they also have legal effects. Look, without going any further, many of you in Law 12/2016, passed at all at the end of the previous legislature, have established only administrative procedures to recognize rights, that is, sometimes administrative resolutions can have effect, and you yourself have recognized it in the procedure for the adoption of Law 12/2016 in relation to these issues. So it is true that not only in matters such as these the judicial decision is exclusive; there may be other decisions. Okay, finally. There are five points in the compromise proposal presented, and my group will vote against the fact that the reform of Law 29/2011 does not belong to this House, but to Congress, where you all have representation and representatives. And, on the other hand, because we are talking about issues in the other points that are covered by the laws in force and that can be exercised, can be applied, can be changed and can be demanded from the courts in relation to the issues that you have raised. And, Mrs Zabala, I don't know if this is going to be a sad day, but this is not a debate of ideas. This is a question of realities, and of the application of the legal norm and regulatory procedures. You have keys to change regulatory procedures and legal rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u168	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u169	Well, Mr. Barri, you said that introducing this legal proposal is meaningless. Well, I'd like to tell you, when the other proposals are presented here, they have a meaning. And if this other proposition of the law had had an extensive consent, of course, it would have had another added value, that would afterwards be able to go to the Spanish Congress, that is to say, entire protection, the whole protection of the legislature. And that would be very important, though we know we have to take Madrid away because this law is supposed to change there. And what I do want to explain to you is a little bit the calvary that all these people have had to suffer. After no constitutional amparo was allowed, LAG victims appealed to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, in which we questioned that the injury of the presumption of innocence was not credible. The vast majority of the various lawyers consulted did not hesitate to point out that the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights would give reason to the recurring families. Well, it hasn't, in most cases. Strasbourg has not allowed these resources to be dealt with. The thing is, you're suing... Excuse me. The case is that many have been denied due process. So, what's the next step? The next step is to present a paper to the UN-based European Council on Human Rights in Switzerland. And why? Because in Strasbourg you have no right to appeal. Then, if it is no longer enough to have had to go through all the Spanish courts, we have had to go to Strasbourg, so that they too do not admit us there. And you say, very lightly – it seems to me – that this must be taken to Madrid. Of course you have to take him to Madrid, but I would have liked you to have supported him. And at least, if not, they would have abstained. But, of course, what I don't accept is a no. A not knowing the suffering that all these people have had to suffer, the suffering that all these people continue to suffer. The insidious judicial path that you have introduced to them. And I say you have introduced, because the General State Budgets Act of 2013 was a law that was passed by the majority of the People's Party and that kind of law, of amendments to the law, is done with great inequity and that cannot be done in a democratic rule of law. Mr. Barrio, in a private conversation I told you that I would be very happy if you would support this initiative. And yes, I said I'm sad and it's true. But look, I'm going to keep the positive. And the positive is the agreement that we have reached with the people we are present in the paper. But Mr. Alonso is not here. And Mr. Alonso knows he could get his colors out. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not that kind of person. I have no intention of taking the colors out of him, and I could. But what I do ask for is a second chance. And I'm still holding my hand, and I'm still holding my hand, and I hope that in Madrid, when we take this initiative to the General Courts, you, as a People's Party, have the human quality to reflect on this initiative. Moreover, I say to you that my epic position still awaits and desires and needs to see that PP of the Basque Country which, for example, by the hand of Iñaki Oyarzabal, raised in the Senate "the inexcusable and indefatigable obligation of the public authorities to guarantee the policies that express the feeling of recognition, reparation and justice due to the victims of terrorism and human rights violations, eliminating the grievances suffered and those that could be caused to them, and taking measures that prevent their offending, humiliation and revictimization." Today would have been a good opportunity for the almost unanimous consensus that gave rise to his initiative in the upper house. That's why I place duties on them, because they have a lot-a lot of room for improvement so we can take steps together and together. Because we want to count on you. Yeah, yeah, and he's laughing on top of it. Because, despite what happened, I'd like to trust you. Because they're going to be better off electorally. Because now we only have the floor. Because we need to talk. To the power, the memory, and the power of living, come; we should go better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u171	Yes, thank you. Ma'am, it's a little spotgation, so you can still keep hope. It is true that the Tribunal of Strassburg Rights has committed some cases, but this does not mean that, when he examines the other cases, he cannot apply the arguments he will find in it in these other cases. That is to say, he who will examine these cases will form a jurisprudence, and you have said, in some measure, that those cases which he has shown have still the hope of being taken notice of. And what I'm saying is hope you won't lose. I have already said that you victims, victims of the state, are sentenced to fighting, but I hope you've still got the chance of getting the good results out of that fight. Mr. Barrio. I think it's amazing, I don't know if it's because of ignorance or lack of argument; certainly, today you have a terrible piece of paper. He certainly also had it in front of Mr Muñagorri at that appearance, in which he could not make an absolute argument. But what I'm asking you to do is not divert your attention. We're not talking about accidental bomb explosions, fortuitously... We're not talking about dead in clashes, we're not even talking about those so-called dead police abuses. All these victims, all these victims, were for murders, many of them, most of them, unclarified; all of them, murders attributed to state terrorism organizations. Those are the victims you want discriminated against, you want separated and you want relegated. Because it is not a question of legality; it is not a question of procedures. It is a matter of what you want to do with the laws, what you have wanted to do with the law of reparation for victims of terrorism. It is not a question of competence; it is not a question of where the debate is being held, if it is being held here, if it is being done in the presentation, if it is being held in Courts. It is a matter of political position. And the political position you stand for here is very serious. Because they make of the non-recognition, of the denial of certain victims, political position. Because they make discriminatory treatment, arbitrary treatment of some victims, political position. And that seems absolutely embarrassing to me. I have to tell you, it's neither new nor incoherent. Indeed. Because I remember some statements in this very atrium of Mr. Antonio Basagoiti – how far it is! – who had no hair in his tongue and who said: ETA killed 856 people; who we defend the unity of Spain, none, zero. And it is not an error of calculation; it is precisely that, its account. This is precisely the story he wants to impose with the absolutely arbitrary and tortuous use, among others, of this law. And that is what we are seeing, that for you there are no more victims than those of ETA. That is their position outside the truth, at the beginning of reality. That is the position that absolutely no one buys from you, and that is why you remain in absolute solitude today. I agree with the initiation; I agree with these three points, which we shall protect, and I agree that we shall come to new agreements in those points where we abstain, and that it is for this, and that, as Mr. Iturate did, I also wish the power to give good results, and, in some measure, to give good answers to these and so many other matters. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u172	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again. I want to... I have said this from the first moment: In the presentation of memory and coexistence, which I have put a value on, we have been talking about a lot of initiatives: some refer to this law that was drawn up by the Congress of Deputies, and others, no. But all of them have to do with memory and coexistence in our country. The memory and coexistence in our country is built day by day, and it is built here and there, and in all those forums we have to be all and all. And let me say that I also hope the People's Party is here. Indeed, this amendment of the law has to be made in the Congress of Deputies. We all know how it should be done or how it can be done, but in this amendment of the law, as in all the amendments of the law that affect memory and coexistence and to solve a problem that is the responsibility of everyone and everyone who has suffered it, we need to be all, Mr Barrio. We also need the cooperation and work here and there of the People's Party, because you know and know that you cannot stay out, nor should you stay out, of what is the construction of the future of Euskadi. For many and many of their companions have suffered and been victims, and this law has dealt with them, as the Basque law has also dealt with them and is lacking them. It misses them because a construction of a coexistence in the future in which we can feel complicit and participative in a more decent society that, indeed, is created 'the one that was never justified' must count on the participation of all; it is not the question of President Sánchez; it is not the question of the lehendakari Urkullu; it is not the question of Rafaela Romero or it is not the question of Pili Zabala or Eukene Arana or Joseba Egibar. It's not a question... The responsibility for the victims, of all the victims – without equalization, but without exclusions – is from all over the country because the whole country suffered with it what was a real calvary of Basque citizenship and society. Therefore, it does not matter the forum and it does not matter which one; what matters is that they, the victims, are the protagonists of that future or, at least, are heard in that future and that responsibility is shared by all. We can't leave anyone out. We used to say this with the victims of Francoism, as I said with the victims of Francoism, I say this with all the victims of all terrorism and human rights violations. In the struggle for the memory of these victims and for their rights, there is no one left; rather, people are still lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturete must not speak a word. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u175	Well, briefly, Madam President. Thank you. Mrs Zabala, in the end you gave me the right when you set just the example of the European Court of Human Rights and to go there and see some pretensions rejected. That is, it is not a problem of the People's Party or the Government of Spain. It's court decisions based on the law. That's what you've shown. And what I say is what there is. In other words, the European Court of Human Rights does not accept it because it applies Spanish legislation. You present a non-law proposition here that can't change anything. I say again, establish... No one has answered me to the questions I asked earlier about what channels, what measures, what instruments, they are implementing, they are carrying out, as a legislative initiative in the General Courts. No one, it's just that there's no or what... That is the subject, and that is why the Constitutional Court or European Court of Human Rights applies the legislation in force. Legislation that can be changed or expanded or improved, and that is a key element. And, of course, I do pick up what you have proposed. Of course we will reflect, of course we will reflect, Mrs Zabala. And if there is a legislative initiative, of course. If there is a legislative initiative, there is talk of reforming the law on victims to improve it, to improve procedures, to establish issues that have been unclear or unclear, or that have been misidentified in the courts, because of course we will work. We will work together; we will analyse the proposals and, of course, amend or try to see how some situations can be fixed. But, today, Mrs Zabala, the laws are there; they can be changed, but the laws cause judicial decisions or administrative decisions that are effective and that can be appealed in the courts and that, under the laws, they can also be lost or cannot prosper. This is the fundamental element. That is why I told you that we were going to remain essentially on a formal issue in relation to this debate that you have raised here and in which you did not say what the groups of the compromise amendment are going to do in relation to legislative initiatives or with the Government of Spain in relation to this issue. No one told me. Okay, but I'll see you carefully. And, of course, we will be constructive and contribute to the legislative debate. And, Mrs Romero and Mrs Zabala, everyone knows why we are not in the paper; everyone knows this, and it is because we, among others, but we, have been victims of persecution and comrades of victims of murders and victims of terrorism, precisely from the political strategy that Mr Arzuaga does not demarcate. Mr. Arzuaga, who then comes to the rostrum and tries to give lessons. The lessons in Mr Arzuaga's mouth are the greatest sarcasm, of course, in relation to the situation he defends, in relation to the postulates in which he burrows. And that's the situation. And that is why our participation in a presentation of these characteristics is so difficult or impossible. In other words, Mr Arzuaga has not yet demarcated himself from the crimes of ETA; he has not condemned them, and in that sense, it is an outstanding subject that has your own paper in which you work. Mr Muñagorri, whom many of the speakers have appealed to, appeared in this committee and spoke. Mr Muñagorri, by the way, my professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law of San Sebastián, good professor, truth, I have to say, and good friend, because we have also taken some pots there. But I didn't have to argue with Mr. Muñagorri; I didn't have to discuss with Mr. Muñagorri at a hearing of a attendee; I could ask or listen, or I could take note of what you say, but, Mr. Arzuaga, in this kind of manipulation of you, you were telling me that I have used arguments to escape from where. No, no, no. And you brought in Mr. Muñagorri who was saying something you were participating in, you agreed, and I didn't, but I didn't have to argue there with him; he came to pose. And, of course, if those approaches serve you or others of the speakers, of course, that well, I did not agree, but I did not have to discuss with him at that time. I mean, because, well, besides a professor of law it is possible that I, even if I know something of law, am not expert in law, for well, he appeared, I took note and, of course, said more things than you were also interested in regarding the recognition and application of the laws that I now remember. I say again: make a reflection, too. Plant this topic, seek agreement, seek majority, make serious reflection on the improvement of Law 29/2011 and we, of course, will be willing, as it cannot be otherwise, to make that analysis. But, of course, I think we are also wasting some time on initiatives such as the one you have brought us, Mrs Zabala. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u176	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote together with Podemos, Eukal Sozialists, and the middle-class corrections signed by the Eucabertarians. It's just asking for stitches, I thought there was no problem. Can you tell me, please, how? One, two, four together. Okay, so are the other two. He'll vote for 1, 2, 4 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 63; counters, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u177	So, they've been accepted for 1, 2, 4 points. Next, we vote for 3.5 points. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 46; the contrary, 9. White, 0; Abstations, 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-06-28.u178	So there's three and five points taken. I'll read you an institutional statement next. "The institutional expression for the LGTBI collective. "On the 28th of June, 1969, the riots in Stonewall marked a point of reflex for the collective LGTBI. "To-day, even if the social consciousness becomes more and more intense, the data confirms that on the top of the bloodberg of hatreds there is dissectism, owing to the orientation of sex and the expression of identity or of the genus. "In this corner, in another year, a great part of society unites to seek to see the world together, and thence arises a taste of salt which is hard to get rid of. "It is impossible to fight after years, that the collective LGTBI is becoming more and more visible; there are more broken cupboards, and more important still, fewer closets are made. "Today the girls and boys are nearer living together as they are, the genera' studios still press on, but the feeling of drowning is getting smaller and smaller. Besides hearing, we hear these girls and boys, they act in public on their own initiative. "Young lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals, decide to live their sexuality in freedom. They mobilize and enjoy themselves with pride and without drama. "Unfortunately, we also need to talk about the discrimination suffered by this group, such as in Chechnya, where there are concentration camps in which preventive cleaning operations are carried out, or how in 11 countries being LGBTBI is still punished with death penalty and in dozens of them with prison that can be even life imprisonment, or even as in many states fines, forced labour or deportations are imposed. We also have closer and more recent examples, where it would be visible from lesbianism has had as a response the expulsion of a coffee shop or the aggression suffered by a couple of girls. Similarly, we would like to recall the violence that is taking place in various parts of the State against transgender men and women, especially against the latter. "We have been regretting for years the fact that until a few days ago transsexuality continues to be catalogued in the psychiatric disorders manuals, both by WHO and by AMPA, without any scientific reasoning for this to be so. This fact, which greatly challenges the lives of transgender men and women, we hope that these steps will help to make progress in normalization and in the proper care that the collective deserves. "And all this is not just about the LGTBI collective, but about the whole of Basque society. Indeed, violence is exercised against the collective, but we all suffer the consequences of living in a world in which this happens. "In this instance, the 28th of June is still more important, and the Basque Parliament remains of gold the draining of hate and human rights, and we encourage society to denounce such a situation aloud. "We state the compromise by the rights of persons of LGTBI, and by the maintenance of our laws and public policy in favor of these rights. "If we look back at the 18th of June, 2018, after 40 years of the first march for Eukadin LGBTI release, we shall see that sexual growth and genera are more and more accepted. And this, first of all, has been owing to the collective LGTBI fight and the struggle of people, but also to the efforts of the community of euscal to make a more consistent and just community." It's just that, since we've exhausted the whole meeting line of material, I end it. It was 7 p.m. and 15 p.m.
