ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the seven and ninth points of the theme list have been left for another purpose, and that the tenth point of the theme list will be discussed after the end of the thirteenth point. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "On the rating of works made by the Public and Autoberan Department of the Euscripts of St.íbaliz, Arangurau, the Euscriptions of the Society." Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u1	women: Erkoreka jauna, we live in a globalized world and in constant turn; advances in information and communication revolutionize our lives. No one, no citizenship, no institutions, no government, no one wants or can stay behind. We know that public administrations, and in particular the Basque administration, are already making progress on this path towards true digital transformation, with an agile, efficient and modern administration aimed at providing better public services to citizens. And this is where the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation 2020 is framed, where ICTs are of fundamental importance. And within this strategic plan, we understand that the overall ICT convergence plan is essential to move forward on this path, and on that, Mr. Counsellor, we want to ask you today, about its implementation and results. So, chief physician, what is the rating of the works? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Madam Laruri, this project you mention is one of the 37ths which constitute the Governor and the New World of the Public World. It is a plan of high ambition, a plan of very ambitious ambition, and essential, indispensable. a digital-century administration on the way to complete it. We will set up a new ICT management model in the Euskadi autonomous public sector. A model that will significantly improve service delivery, which will allow us to retain control and strategic information in the hands of the public sector itself, and which will ultimately also entail significant economic savings. The project is the result of the work carried out over the past five years, but on the basis of the experience accumulated since 20 years ago, an experience that has demonstrated the need for common and coordinated strategic planning by the entities that make up the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. Planning that effectively allows interoperability and real interdependence between public administrations. This strategy of convergence of computer resources, which is a pioneer in the Spanish State, is planned in four different areas. One, infrastructure; two, communications; three, jobs and four, unified corporate services. As far as infrastructure is concerned, in just two years the computer services of the Basque Government will be managed on a single platform, rather than on a single CPD. This will allow us to have a modern CPD structure, with current technology and that will improve the availability, security and access to the information they host. We have also incorporated the cloud paradigm And finally, the recruitment of support services has also been unified, allowing us to provide the model, the best service model 24 hours, seven days, 365 days a year, and with the same person serving the different entities. With regard to communications, we are making available to all entities a common catalogue of security and communications. In relation to the job, we have set up a new job model that allows us to deal with new mobility scenarios, through the virtualization of each of them. And finally, as far as unified corporate services are concerned, we have put in place common mail and collaboration solutions. In this respect, we are working on a draft decree that will allow legal coverage of the actions we are carrying out. A rule that will promote convergence in ICT and introduce management elements that will make it possible to rationalize public administration expenditure, because if administrative action is always to be guided, at all times, among others, by the principle of efficiency, in the current economic situation it is vital to optimise the use and obtain the maximum value of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "Ask the president about the leading secretaries of a party that's a part of the fun. " Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u5	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. On the 10th of October, the Irries of Maddalen and Joseba Egibars introduced a treaty for the New States in the Parliament of Europe. This, it seems, was not agreeable to the PSE, and asked in a particular way about it in the direction of PSE, the Master Secretary of PSE, who is a member of Christmas, compared with the patriotic euscal patriotism of Le Pen and Salvini. Mr. President, do you think this kind of statement would be acceptable to you in the direction of the principal secretary of a party that is a member of the government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. This is a matter of importance, yes, Mr. Urizar, no doubt, and unfortunately it is not new. Gogoan duel Urtebete Jean-Claude Juncker-ek Salamancan egindako adierazpena. Momentu hartan karta beat bidez weretzun nion honela esanez: "I am concerned that supremacist and exclusive nationalism acquires prominence and imposes itself at all costs. I am concerned in the framework of Europe or within a state." Eta jarraitzen nuen: "The ideal of self-government is found in the harmony and coexistence between different identities, from respect and mutual recognition". I continue to defend this decree, and our ideas have nothing to do with what Le Pen or Salvini defend, either to the past or to the future. From the first steps of the European Union, the project which the Jestric Party has defended has nothing to do with a totalitarian or closed view. The supremacist or exclusionary vision has nothing to do with our ideal. We have always defended freedom and human rights. We have come the way of democracy, self-government and European integration, also at the hands of the Socialist Party. From the first Basque government in exile, we fight against what Le Pen and Salvini represent. In democracy we approved the Statute of Gernika and we have shared the government of the Basque institutions, also now. The facts support this democratic and pluralistic path, and I doubt that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Euskadi wanted to question with her words this entire path of events. Words are important, but so much or so are the facts, and I ask for consistency. You, for example, are exalting Arnaldo Otegi's meetings with Eguiguren or Rodriguez Zapatero. You met yesterday with Idoia Mendia herself; you did it to talk about the budget, focusing precisely on the facts rather than the words. That's the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u9	President, the theme is important, I think we all share. And it was a good answer because you wanted the focus to be out, but what happens is that the problem isn't out, it's inside the house, I think, because it's becoming a habit. In the last July, Andoni Unzalus, who has political interests in your government, has also severely censured patriotism, and it must be said that the patriotism of EAJ is much stronger and more direct. And now, three months later, it's not what Junker said, but, after all, the head secretary of the party you're a member of the government makes criticisms. And it is true that the criticism of any kind, because the patriotism of the Basque patriot is compared to Le Pen and Salvini, and he who does this does it doesn't just happen to do it, he does it on purpose. So I think it's important. I don't know what you think, Mr. President, but it would have been difficult for me to share the project with a partner who has such a bad picture on me, and who, whenever he can, directs those criticisms in public or with a member who makes public. Maybe the question is there, see if there's any project. For what kind of project can be built because with a person who reproachs you for going against the future, he said either that or because he had said that with a member who says that the right to decide is antidecratic, too, he said it in his own day. I think there is a great difficulty in building a project between two parties of which there is so profound a difference, or at least to construct any political projects which this people require. And maybe that's the point, isn't it? Stand by President, you know that no government agreement can answer the real problems of this people, and still less in the evolutionist period. We said at the beginning of the law, and from that time forward more than once, that this people need deep political agreements, with the view of the town, of the Basque Country, and for this purpose the hands of the Collectors are extended. There were and they're still here. We're not in this situation Josephba Egibar said also in the plunct of general policy that the State of Guernica would not now be fulfilled, and that shows what situation we are in. You defend it, too, for vast majoritys in this situation. But a vast majority is required to defend the rights of this people; Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Perhaps, Mr. Urizar, it may be that without the Jeltists of the Euric Party, EH Collect has a desire to join the Socialist Party, as well as to govern, although critics have the same problem. It could be, right? How else can it be possible to confer on budgets like this or negotiate, that we can have supposed negotiations and come here today to criticize this? Otherwise, I think we ought to think about what really are the targets. I must confess you surprised me. You say the phone is out there and you're scandalized by some external statement. With some external expressions. But you don't say a word about what you've done. Take a little look at the long list of distinctions which have been observed in the course of time between all the political parties of the legislature, and yet the different agreements between the different parties which have been obtained. Don't hesitate with us, Mr. Urizar. We defend an open society, which respects and encourages multiplicity, which renders and seeks formulas of the principle of right and democratic principle, which believe in the values of Europe, which opposes dictatorship, terrorism, and violence. That's the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, with Hiron together by the law of the Podemos to the president, about the improvement of the legislature." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u13	Good morning, Mr. President. Well, that's clear and clear: How does your government think to carry your legal calendar forward, including the budget, by seeing the government's financial pain and also the lack of protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Answer me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, in the same way that we have been doing since the first day that it was up to me to be lehendakari since the last legislature and also in this legislature, always in minority. With as much humility as possible, with open dialogue with all groups, with willingness to agree and, above all, with much work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u17	Lehendakari, his government lost a vote in this House again yesterday. And it's already five and we've got three fulls. There is no full one to save without showing that they are in a minority. In a minority and, above all, with no capacity for dialogue. Because those parliamentary defeats and difficulties to carry out the Budgets, the reform of the RGI, the law that comes against the Machist violence and equality, the law of transparency, the modification of the police... It is not only that PNV and PSE do not make up a majority, they do not know how to sit down and talk and reach agreements. Even today we have seen how they ask him to get rid of his government partner. Without going any further, 15 days ago, I went up to this very rostrum proposing to your Government that we talk about budgets. I promised to present our proposals, you requested it too and so did Elkarrekin Podemos. And see if there is little capacity for dialogue, that 10 days after giving them the negotiating platform, we have not yet heard the opinion or received a call from Mr Azpiazu, the Finance Adviser. I am focusing on Mr Azpiazu because it is true that his government, by the mouth of the spokesman, did not take two hours to discard them, thus inventing, putting the finger in the air, a figure of 1.5 billion euros that we do not know where they got it from. They have been reproaching us on the Basque left for days everything from their party, which we demand more here than in Madrid, than why we do not put La Naval in the General Budgets of the State, than if the agreement that has been reached in the State is not Basque agenda, despite benefiting 400,000 citizens of this country. They've only missed us this week to blame us for the pine fungi. And so, with these forms, even with this pride, you are getting to the point you are getting to. Today his Government lost votes, found it impossible to comply with its own legislative timetable and trembled at the failure of an extension of budgets. And all this because today it is unable to reach an agreement. Yesterday they received a doorbell from the People's Party. They have not even considered us today, because they believe that in view of the autumn discounts of Euskal Herria Bildu, it will be cheaper for them to get two abstentions than to have to give a 180-degree turn to their policies and obtain with it the support of Elkarrekin Podemos. Honestly, it is you who close the doors, it is you who are putting your government's ship on the road to budget extension and it is you, only you, who are responsible for the disaster to which you are heading. But I'll tell you what. Here you have a hand stretched out to gather, to dialogue and to see the possibilities of agreement. An agreement that, of course, would not be on sale or by crumbling, which demands this social turn of his Government. You've been listening to Mr. Urizar for a while. The choice of partners is yours, Mr. Lehendakari. Since it is yours and no one else's responsibility whether there is an extension or not, and if there is, I agree with who it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Answer me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, you have made an appeal to what you said in the general policy debate and I will also make the same appeal to what I answered in the general policy debate. I said, "You're not telling the truth, Mr. Martinez. He's not telling the truth." You refer to the loss of a vote yesterday. And why does it not refer to the winnings or votes won by two parties that we are in a minority government? Why don't you make reference to the votes won? In any case, I insist on the spirit of open dialogue with all groups with the will to agree and, above all, as I said in the first speech, with a lot of work. Because thanks to this spirit of agreement we approved the budgets between 2014 and 2018 in the time that it has corresponded to me to be lehendakari being in minority, Mr Martínez. The same spirit encourages us in the process of approving next year's budgets, 2019, expansionary budgets that put social policies and improving the competitiveness of our economy, positive budgets for citizens. And with regard to the legislative timetable to which he also referred, the responsibility and commitment of the Government is to approve and submit to this Parliament 28 bills, once the preliminary drafts have been approved in the Governing Council, and we are on the equator of the legislature. We have passed ten bills, seven in the form of a bill and three in the form of a bill. Three more not included in the timetable have been approved. We are working on twelve new bills, which will be approved in the coming months. In total there are 25, and we are going to pass the 28 bills committed in the government programme and before this Parliament. Look, I reiterate our willingness to maintain a process of dialogue and negotiation, and do not worry that we have analysed the 15 measures that you have also put forward on the platform. We have analysed them and will also have an opportunity to discuss them with the Elkarrekin Podemos parliamentary group, as with all groups. Our attitude remains at hand, because we are aware of the need to reach agreements to pass laws and also budgets. We do not propose red lines or exclusionary renunciations as you also did in the general policy debate. We only ask for respect, realism and responsibility. I respect the social policies that we have been developing and that have been taken as an example by your colleagues from other communities, Mr Martínez. Realism, with the tax revenue scenario approved at the Basque Finance Council, and responsibility for managing public resources in a scenario of fiscal consolidation and balance in accordance with the European guidelines. We are only asking for the same respect, realism and responsibility that the United States has shown. We can agree on a draft general budget and send it to Europe for validation, Mr Martínez. Our door is still open, with a social proposal, you know that approving budgets in Euskadi is as important as approving them in Spain or Catalonia. It's possible for El acuerdo, señor Martín. If you show the respect, realism, and responsibility that you've shown in accepting the Spanish budget, it'll be possible to make a deal. After all, as you know perfectly well, our budget is more social and more efficient to promote more employment and better. Even here in Spain, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief staff of Tourism, commerce, and Kostsumos, new aids to the enterprise of the Basque Council." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u21	Si, good morning to all. Mr Councilman, today no one doubts the importance of commercial activity in terms of job creation and wealth in all modern economies. In particular, in the Basque Country, trade currently accounts for 11% of gross domestic product and the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption states that in the field of trade one of the strategic axes is to boost its competitiveness. Basque trade plays an important role in our economy, in our society and in our urban spaces. However, the social perception of this reality is currently limited, a fact that does not favour the capture of transformative talent in the sector and, therefore, one of the budget lines for this year of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption is aimed at enhancing the promotion of entrepreneurship and at making Euskadi attractive enough, not only to attract investment, but to develop our own talent. You, Mr Retortillo, as advisor, committed yourself in the current budgets to promote entrepreneurship, creating a new line of aid for both those who start a business and those who expand their business lines. The talent of entrepreneurs is, together with business succession and accompaniment, a fundamental part of the future of the commercial sector, its continuity and the employment it generates in an increasingly global and also increasingly competitive world. And that is why on 2 October you presented to the Governing Council a new programme of aid for commercial entrepreneurship, with the aim of providing a necessary, absolutely necessary impetus for the commercial entrepreneurship of self-employed people and businesses. And the Basque Socialists think that this initiative is important for two reasons. One, because it thus fulfils a budgetary commitment acquired with the commercial sector and with Basque society as well. Secondly, because it responds to a historical demand from the Basque commercial sector, with a clear commitment to business excellence and innovation in the neighbourhood trade, also seeking to give impetus to disadvantaged areas, both in the economic and social aspects. Moreover, a formula that favors, that promotes female entrepreneurship, has been found. And as this programme is now open to us, it seems pertinent to us that it offers us as full a detail as possible of the characteristics of these aids and of this programme of entrepreneurship of the Basque trade that its department has launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u23	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea, lehendakari, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Corcuera. Indeed, the aid programme for commercial entrepreneurship responds to a long demand from the commercial sector in Euskadi, which no longer refers to established operators, but to those who want to incorporate with new business ideas, with new forms of marketing, with new products and with illusion. The programme is therefore aimed at helping SMEs and self-employed people who are willing to provide the impetus to undertake, which is so necessary always in any economic activity and, of course, also in trade. With this programme – which is indeed new and which demonstrates the things that this Government is doing, and I am therefore grateful for your question – and with this programme, I said, we want to promote entrepreneurship as a line that supports the renewal of the commercial park, integrating global elements of specific support for the promotion of innovative businesses. This programme should serve to promote unique business entrepreneurship projects, both for new businesses, and to enable the start-up of new business ideas and expanding businesses. What we offer to recipients is financial support, as well as advice. The programme also seeks synergies and collaboration with the local development areas of the municipalities, with the regional development agencies, and with private initiatives as well. This program allows the unique design for each action, adding and coordinating both sectoral or zone actors and institutional actors. As stated in the bases, the aid gives priority to actions which either take place in local areas at risk of socio-commercial exclusion, with levels of unemployment higher than the average in the Autonomous Community, or which target groups where it is more difficult for them to start a business or to enter the labour market. With this aid, therefore, we also focus on the most vulnerable sectors and the most unprotected areas. And indeed, it also affects the incorporation of women, increasing the number of business projects promoted by women, by setting a minimum of 50% of the programme for projects led by women. The programme has a total budget of EUR 2.2 million. A part shall be allocated to self-employed undertakings or commercial undertakings, with aid which may finance up to 70 % eligible, with a maximum total at the request of EUR 20,000. This programme line is primarily intended to cover expenses that many may be a barrier to addressing commercial entrepreneurship. Registration, notation, advice, etc. Also to cover start-up costs, or also to subsidise investments in works, furniture equipment, as well as technological solutions. Another programme line is intended to finance projects of the Basque municipalities seeking to promote commercial viability or to promote entrepreneurship in their municipalities. Finally, I think it is important to stress that in just one week the programme has received an extraordinary reception. There are already more than 100 commercial entrepreneurship projects presented, and up to twenty municipalities have already informed us of their intention to present projects to promote commercial viability or promote commercial entrepreneurship in their municipalities. The deadline for submitting applications is until 10 November, and I take this opportunity to encourage you to continue to submit proposals in this call to those with commercial entrepreneurship projects that can contribute to the revitalization of Basque trade, which, in fact, as you yourself have pointed out in the question, is so important for life in our neighbourhoods, in our towns and in our cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u24	Thank you, chief physician. Five point in theme list: "Queer, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president about the draft of the General State Preservation." Mr. Aonso is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. This week we approved the draft General Budgets of the State, which has been forwarded to Brussels, as you have recalled, and whose main architect were Pablo Iglesias and the Party Podemos, which reached an agreement no less than with the Government of Spain. Budgets that we do not like, which I call unrealistic, almost budgets, I would say, fantasy; they provide for an increase in spending, they also provide for an uneven increase in tax revenues, because they raise taxes precisely to the middle classes. I believe that these are regressive budgets, that threaten economic growth, that already show signs of slowdown, and that they are a risk to employment. And I believe that they have an effect and will have a negative effect of moving forward in the terms in which they have been put forward, not only in Spain as a whole, but also here in Euskadi. I'm interested in knowing your opinion. I know the president of your party. He says in his infinite relativism that he doesn't care about budgets be left, right, or low or high, because he's in something else. And he has also announced that his party will be an easy partner in Madrid. And I ask you what you think, what you think we benefit from these budgets here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, look, we still do not know with due depth and detail the proposal for general state budgets for next year 2019. In any case, I'll tell you what you would appreciate positively. First, the stability that guarantees an approved budget. Secondly, the decision to present a budget plan in Brussels, assuming the application of the requirements of deficit, debt and European expenditure rules. And I remind you of the European Union's warning to the Spanish Government, which you know perfectly well, in your time, about the breaches in the 2016 budget project. Thirdly, it would also assess the continuity of the items in infrastructure, investment and economic support lines to be developed in Euskadi. Fourthly, it would also value the fulfilment of commitments relating to the guarantee of social services, the increase of the minimum wage, investment, and the activation of the productive economy and industry. It is all right, in any case, to talk about the general budgets of the State, but our responsibility is here. And the question we have to ask ourselves is how the Basque Government's budgets can improve the lives of citizens in 2019. This is the question that all parliamentary groups, including their own, should answer to Basque citizens and I would ask them not to self-exclude themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u29	Gracias, President señor. We used to ask the opposition, but now you ask me, and the truth is that I have it for a particular consideration that you have towards me and that my group certainly does not deserve. Yes, I will answer one of your statements. The first reason why you consider it reasonable to negotiate, in your case, to take the step in the budgets, you said that it is, that guarantees political stability. Last week he guaranteed political stability, the vote on the budgets. I therefore do not know what political stability that is. Nor do I know what political stability can be achieved in Spain as a whole, when to approve the budgets Pablo Iglesias is going to jail today to negotiate them, which is strange political stability. Strange partners. All of you have to vote on those budgets so that you can move forward. Then, you are and you represent, look at the weight that falls on your shoulders, national political stability, on Bildu's shoulders. That's the circumstance. And so, I think, yes, we do well to talk about politics. But you ask me what happens in Euskadi. I had you and I still want you to be serious people, and Mr Azpiazu to be also serious and responsible, who before approving fantasy budgets with Podemos or budgets – I no longer have qualifications – with Bildu, because you preferred an extension situation. I even said, "Hey, I'll help you." The problem, I will tell you very seriously, is not that, as Mr.Lander Martínez has accused you, you will not find reciprocity on the part of Podemos in the Basque Country – see, before you had that, reciprocity – in the event that the budgets of Pablo Iglesias are approved in Madrid, because in Madrid the passage marks Podemos. The problem is the relationship with Bildu, who dares again today to tell him to break with his partner, with the Socialist Party, and that the signs are always in the same direction. Bildu lives in an alley and you go to the alley. And I'll tell you, that alley has no way out and so don't go to Bildu alley. But it goes constantly, with the pact on self-government, that is the political strategy. Yesterday in the schools... They want to send, what? Bildu's thesis on the history of ETA? Are you going to mark the whole step, in the future of the Basques' coexistence, in what we explain what happened here? That's what I want to change. Give signs that you can change it. I repeat, I have brought a proposal to the House to bring back the work of the paper. Back up. And on the other hand, I no longer ask you to remove the videos that yesterday were controversial. I ask you to remove the person from your confidence that you are doing all that and that it also poses a risk to the story of memory and the truth of what happened in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief of Parliament and the House of Parliament. Galdera da: How do you rate the draft of the State General Budgets recently approved for the Basque Country? Mr. Alonso, I think you have a hearing or understanding problem because... or in any case it also has a problem of an exclusive character. You said that I asked you and I said what I said to you is what we should ask ourselves, I said what we should all ask ourselves, in general. Secondly, I have responded "valued" and I have emphasized it twice, "valued". Thirdly, you have mentioned political stability and I have not talked about political stability, stability. In any case, I welcome the fact that a realistic project is submitted to Brussels and I believe it is responsible for showing a willingness to negotiate with other groups for approval. Exactly the same thing we did here by mutual agreement last year and the previous year, with a positive result for the citizenry, Mr Alonso, and I do not understand that it is self-discarded when we have complied with the agreements reached. Essential services are guaranteed: we invest more, we generate economic growth and jobs are created. It is precisely in order to achieve this that we agreed on the budget and I do not understand that we are now refusing to negotiate a budget that, in any case, will be better than the previous one and that we are denying it on the basis of what we said years ago here, the "raca-raca", and some say the "mistake". With regard to fiscal policy, for example, we have competition here and we have approved it with you, Mr Alonso. Look, Basque fiscal policy is more attractive for investment according to all analysts, according to what is proposed in the draft General State Budgets. In addition, we are committed to assessing and analysing ways of improving it. And I make this reference to what also means the agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party and the People's Party. I insist, do not dismiss yourself from a responsibility that also affects you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies made to the president by Uai Uruzuno Goldst EH Collector, a transfer of economic management of the Social Security regime." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u33	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. I remember a few expressions in Xabier Artzal Longer when we prepared this internship. We were going to go on then, my followers, just imagine how many years ago it might have been. And he already said that Philip González and the Socialist Party were not to be trusted, and that there was no longer any trust in the people, but that in the Spanish politics there was another man named Joseph María Aznar, who seemed to be to trust him, and who could not possibly be trusted with the Socialist Party, there were signs or things that might happen to him. Aznar came, then Zapater came, then Rajoy came and then Pedro Sánchez came. And when it came, in June, a discussion which we had in this chamber itself and which Xabier Arzallus said in his time comes back again rather than now. It's not the socialists who aren't trusted at this time, and this time it's the Popular Party that doesn't trust, and there's one Pedro Sánchez who looks like "with this, it'll be possible, this shows a different will, which shows other ways to make things different." And now, in three or four months, the reality is stubborn again. The reality of Spanish politics is again obstinate. Magdalena Valerio Lan, Migrazio eta Gizarte Segurantzako ministeraren ahotik, esaten du aldizkari edo egunkari bati eskainitako elkarrizketa battan: "It is not time to sit down and talk about transferring absolutely nothing from the Social Security System. There is no longer to transfer, not even to sit down and talk. Not even to sit and talk." Bilateraltaun age borondatea eta komisio mistoa eta... "No, no. It's not even time to sit down and talk." Eta kazetariak insisted: "But this transfer is a red line for the PNV". Eta estantzuten du: "For the PNV must decide what it does". And that's our question today. This is the question we bring today: what is the PNV going to do, or, in this case, the Basque Government from which you are lehendakari, so that the transfer of social security is already transferred? That's our question today. What's Red Beetle gonna do? A couple of weeks ago, in the U.S.C.O.C.A. was saying to Tapia, "Goodot? "I don't know. Are we still waiting for Godot? Valerio Minister PSOEkoa da. PSOEkoa da éta zuk baduzu Gobernu bat zure alderdiak eta Alderdi Sozialistak, PSOEk, osatzen dutena. Eta baduzue gobernu-akordio bat, baduzue gobernu-akordio bat berre hamabosgarren score that duena: "The political parties that we subscribe to this agreement commit ourselves to work so that in the agenda of bilateral relations to be entered with the central government is reserved a priority place to the claim and negotiation of the transfers that the Basque Government identifies as pending realization, giving a prominent place to the following: (a) Prisons; (b) Management of the Economic System of Social Security in the terms of the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Gernika". We don't understand what's going on. The same member of the central government is in your government, and this is the answer from Madrid. Besides, we know Social Security is not a kind of jurisdiction. We believe here that transferring in the terms of the state. We consider this as a means of view. But we believe that no system of ours is capable of causing us enormous problems. We're seeing that problem right now on the street. We have a 165,000 pensioned RGI can't complete the pension to the minimum salary between the professions, which they can't afford. And we allow ourselves to seek this opening, that we have no right to form our pensions, and try to make them complete by RGI, but we all know what the gaps are. And I say that if there are 190.000 pensions at this moment below the salary between professions, the RGI only applies to 14,000 and figs, 15,000 to that pension. It also creates a great many other problems: active and passive employment policies. Nobody knows. No one knows what are active and passive, nor does Mr. Erkoa know. That's why Tribunal Sulpremus has to tell us who they are and "Be careful not to go through here, because this... "I don't know. Social Security creates all that for us. Social Security is an indispensable right to this country, and that's why they don't give it to us, of course, that's why they don't give it to us. But I repeat, the question is not in the will or will of Philip Gonzále, or in the will of Aznar, or in the house of Rajoy, or of Zapero, or at Peter Sánchez. And I dare say tomorrow that even if Pablo Illesias were Pablo we could be the same. The problem is that you said it yourself on 2017 Party Day, there's the key. And we entirely agree with this diagnosis. You said yourself: "El Model de Estado ha fracasado y esta roto." That's the problem, that's the diagnosis. And we think, once we get to this diagnosis, if we're capable of doing this diagnosis, we can't understand it yet, 40 years later, trying to persuade the people to "yes, the Socialist Party has to call me, and this time they've got to make a mistake. "and walking about with such warmth. That's what makes us understand. If we have arrived at this diagnosis, this study, this reflection, that "el model de fracasado ha fracasado y esta roto," we do not understand praxia, practice, duty, diagnostic, or the origin of this origin. We think that Procusto's syndrome is a happy thing to do. Procusto's syndrome is reality trying to adapt to one's wishes and every one's wishes, but reality, as I have said before, is stubborn to us and we believe that, unfortunately, from Spain, I'm afraid, from the government of St. Peter Sanchez, the rights necessary for this people are related to us, and social security is so for us; there are other advantages which are of much less importance to us, we think they won't come. So, we would like to know what the plan of this government is, what this government is about to do, to make use of the jurisdiction of Social Security. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, reality, warmth, Procustor's... I think maybe you're missing the mirror. But I advise you to buy a mirror and look in the mirror to talk about warmth and Procusto's, and to see what is real reality. If not, how can we understand how it is possible that the state itself should appear in favour of the neutrality, how to understand the state to be a means? I think you've got the decades to tell me clearly what reality really is, and what we're saying in that necessity is fine, but I think you need the mirror, as I said. Nevertheless, the State of Guernica, after nearly 40 years of force, cannot be denied that any modification or transferment of the State has been effected in order to manage the jurisdiction of the 18.2 articles of security in the province of our territory. Besides sharing the proclamation of this right, I find it inevitable to remark that the view you give of social security is partial. Your view does not extend to the subject from a full view. I think it's very important to get this straight. It is only by means of a global application over all those changes which concern the subject of social security, and which are not given, that it is possible to give up the institutions of the Basque State. Thus, in this respect, the National Institute of Social Security, including the administration of the Mariina Society, and the general administration of Social Security, which is connected with the inspection functions of the community. A report about transfers not transferred to this law more than a year ago, and it is true that in this report there is a part of the economic management of Social Security, but it is not the only one, Mr. Urruzuno. With your permission, I'll put on the table other things as important as the things you plan. And so, apart from the influence of your interpellation, I would remark these. One, the National Institute of Social Security, and the handling of economic applications in the social Social Security Institutes; and the need to form a change in the field of public inspection, which fills the territory and matter of both sexes in the sphere of business and Social Security. By the way of doing this transfer, as well as any other which is not done, I think I must remind you, first of all, that a political agreement must be made with the State Administration in the Mist Committee of Transfers. In order to obtain the transfer, as the Constitution of Spain has remarked, any political will of both parties, state, and Autonomy, is indispensable to action. This is certainly not the case with either of them, the Constitution Courts 1990. As he had remarked in the sentence of the year, he said: "To complete the effective distribution of the rights, the state government is the highest responsible." I reiterate, therefore, that a 1990 ruling of the Constitutional Court itself literally warns the following, and says: "The Government of the State is the ultimate responsible for the effective completion of the division of powers. It is the Government of the State that must excite the zeal to reach agreements in the Joint Commission." The inaction in the process of transfers by the State has not only been met with political criticism, but has also been placed on the table in the General Courts to incorporate into the legal system mechanisms to unlock the process of transfers of services and functions for the exercise of the powers recognized in the statutes of autonomy. In this context, I believe, our only option is to enter the Administration of the State in the direction of democratic respect to those laws which we have given to ourselves. In order to find this explanation, and obtain effective political treaties for the welfare of society, we have nothing but word and political action, Mr. Urruzuno, the word and political action, the living instruments of contemporary democracy, from this very point of view. This way, and as you know well, in the present context and political moment, as you have mentioned, we hope to succeed when we demand the respect and perfection due to the law. This, however, demands still political negotiations and councils, and I shall recapitulate the more extensive and extensive our agreements between all the political forces which we are in this legislature, the better we shall succeed in fulfilling our end. And once we have obtained the necessary political acquiescence, we will propose how to develop with the utmost effectiveness the assumption and implementation of the necessary functions and services, we will compromise the financial coverage that allows our resources and we will build the necessary structures in order to be able to carry out a complex and difficult to square in economic terms. And we will in any case, because this is a priority and we share the need to complete the public welfare and protection system in Euskadi. As we have always stated and as we have demonstrated in the years 2009 and 2010 in negotiations with the government of Rodríguez Zapatero, we will focus on the transfer to which you refer with realism. The objective is to take the necessary steps to be able to assume all functions and also to be able to design rationally our management structures, adjusting our resources. In this line, we then propose and reiterate now that it would be advisable to complete, first of all, the transfer of certain subjects that complement the system and that can be considered autonomously and successively, all in order to gain in effectiveness. We therefore believe that it is feasible to deal in this order with partial transfers of school insurance, the management of mutual partners with social security and passive employment policies as a specific system for the care of unemployment benefits. Thus to assume the bulk of the functions proper to the management carried out by the National Institute of Social Security and the Social Institute of the Navy, as well as, where appropriate, the Treasury itself. Finally, Mr. Uruzuno, we don't forget about financial matters this time. It'll be amazing to make the transfer possible for our future, because the numbers can't be changed, and this financial and budget adaptation will have to act efficiently. This, by the way, is said by the transient regulations of the State itself. We believe, Mr. Urruzuno, that it is possible to step by step on the steps of the transfer. It is still too early to give the predictions of the structures we are going to need to receive, but by the way I have described it, the change may be consistent and orderly. I think so, and so we are trying in our conversations with the Spanish Government. I hope we can do this in the future. And you see, one of the other questions, Mr. Alonso said we were entering an unsolved street with you, together with the EH Collector. Well, I'm glad, I'm glad, I'm glad you can proclaim the state's level, but I don't have to thank you. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u37	Yeah. I am really grateful for every explanation that can be given about Social Security, but the question was, what this Government intends to do, that it may be effected at once. I think it is, and I believe it is a sensation or impression received by the vast sectors of this country by the majority, that the period of difference has long since passed over to this subject, and that we bear many years in the course of the merchandise. There is no difference, there is a melodrake; Here is a system established, in which all the powers which they have preserved, the decisions they make, if they will, not to be executed, or to deprive them of all their powers, which we have introduced by ourselves. And the Board Misto is called, and we can't even call it Misto Committee. According to the answers answered by Mr. Erkoa, we can't call the Misto Committee, but well. That is the mirror of the model of communication we now have, and we believe that we must go deep in it, that we must turn it round, and the agreement we have made in self-generon is partly directed to it. I don't want to make anyone nervous, because this is where we get a minimum peace from the Euccan Party and the Basque People, the almost complete constitutionalism, that is, that's what's in it, that's what's happening, that's what's going on, that's what's going on, that's what's going to happen, that's what's going to happen, because you're ruining the Constitution.The whole constitutionalism is extremely nervous, and has nothing to say to Vocento. Vocento, of course, gets very nervous. I was only here today to make a suggestion, to examine, to reflect, and to make him see as possible. In the first place, it was said that the Spanish State had no intention, no will to transfer their jurisdictions. At the second point he said he had to give it a time or so before he could do it. And he said at the third point, if he no longer answers it, if he does not answer it, perhaps we ought to carry out those advantages which have not been transferred to us. As for Social Security, this is the question: this government has ever regarded, as an opportunity, since this government has never known, that after 40 years, the jurisdiction of Social Security from Spain will not be shaken by us, because we believe that the course of forty years is already quite practical, and this government has already set forth as an opportunity in time of life, and has regarded the possibility of Social Security for us here? And when you talk about the deals, you'd have 18 votes right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. You started asking me what we're going to do on this second shift and I told you on the first round, I answered. Anyway, I'd like to know if you'd discussed this with the Socialist Party's delegation at the meeting yesterday. I'd love to know. I'll know anyway. You didn't talk about it. Okay. It's okay. You didn't talk about it. So it's clear. That's clear. It's okay. As long as negotiations don't produce fruit while there's no deal, while the Mist Committee isn't called... And the Board may be called Mist, but it is necessary to have an agreement, an agreement, a mutual agreement. Otherwise it's no use. And in the meantime I share the necessity of proclaiming in all political forums throughout the state of Guernica. Nay, this proclamation is followed by a vast council of the Distribution of the Jurisdictions of this Common-wealth. I reiterate, Mr Urruzuno, the importance of this demand for the completion of the competition distribution process being supported by a broad consensus in this House, as has also been the case in the reference you have made to the agreements reached in this Parliament. The pronouncements in the various institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community demanding full compliance with the Statute of Gernika have been innumerable. And not only that. In the year 1987, I'll put on the table a motion presented by Senator Carmelo Renobales today. And this motion said: "We ask the State Government to determine and execute the programme of transfers which are not made with the Esunomical Government, as well as the proper calendar for the subsequent negotiations." And today we can also recall the two most recent pronouncements or two most recent pronouncements, on 12 April and 28 June this year, in this Basque Parliament. These agreements were referred both to President Rajoy in April, so I was also asked in this House why I referred the agreement of this Parliament to the President of the Government, then Mr Rajoy. And I also did so to President Sánchez in June, urging answers or answers in time and form to an agreement widely supported by this Parliament. The origin of these two decisions, and even on June the 28th of April, I must admit that there were two of the initiatives of your legislative party, and in these, among others, the plan and schedule of the State of Guernica in two months' time was required to present to the government of the State. During the negotiations with the rest of the political forces, a delivery amendment was granted, and the term lasted six months. This correction was accepted by all but by the popular party. As I admit to your team as a promoter of the enterprises mentioned, you will have to accept the effort of years and confirm what you received in the year 1987. For example, one, the Program, two, the Calendar, three, as in all negotiations, the need of respect, confidence, and elasticity on both sides, and four the political will of him who has pointed out to be responsible for the dissolution of the Constitution's jurisdiction, the political will of the Government. In short, our aim is to have a programme and a timetable for transfers within the time frame approved by this Parliament. Our commitment is to address the negotiation process with an attitude of respect, confidence and flexibility, and our political will is to achieve a positive change in the attitude of the Government of the State to resolve a pending political issue for 39 years. We also hope to count on the strong support of this House and of the Basque society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, together with the members of the Podemos to the president, concerning taking Jon Darpón's chief health out of charge." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. On October 10th, the Health Committee took place in order for Mr Darpón to report on the investigation carried out by Osakidetza into OPE fraud 2016-2017. Following access to the various records of the courts and information records of Osakidetza, it was recorded that there were leaks, and no action was taken. In addition, evidence has been hidden that would prove fraud, not debugging responsibilities for what has happened and, however, doubly punishing opponents to repeat the exams again and again without any guarantees. To Elkarrekin Podemos seems extremely serious this fact, so last Wednesday we requested the cessation of the councillor, cease that has not occurred. What reasons does Mr Lehendakari find for not ceasing the Health Adviser after his irresponsible management in the crisis of the OPEs? 2016-2010 de Osade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Two reasons, Mrs. Macazaga. The management of the Department of Health and Osakidetza is being effective and is valued by Basque citizens and the management of the public offer of employment crisis is being swift, accountable and transparent. The public service offered by membership is protected by the euccany society. And the second reason is that Osaides has engaged to complete the public offer with the full guarantee of all the members. Those are my reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u45	Mr. Urkullu, again someone from your party disallows you and you have to go out to this rostrum to defend you, go for it. Look, I understand how complex it is to govern a majority less one and that a government crisis is not the best in full budgets and at the gates of an election. But while you were talking about transparency in the investigation of Osakidetza's OPE fraud, your advisor, Mr Darpón, was spending EUR 14,999 plus VAT on an Oviedo last name report, which was nothing more than an alibi to make us look away while ventilating. We have had to ask for all the information necessary to carry out our opposition work and we have been overly hampered and to the point of showing reports with paragraphs covered, hidden under corrective tape. You said that it would be investigated to the end and you have given folder to an investigation that has not intended anything other than to hide that the vox populi Look, in all this farce of Osakidetza's investigation, there is a maximum responsibility to answer, Mr Urkullu. You know your advisor hasn't managed this crisis. But in addition, on 24 April of the same year, one month before the cardiology exam, Osakidetza was warned that the leaks were common currency in this type of exams by members of the court. He also warned the president this very member of the court, and I quote literally: "I have substantial reasons to believe that part of the EPO court to which we belong intends to share the material generated for the second test with a view to selective filtration." At three weeks, the exam was held, 22 places and 22 exams with a perfect grade. This is reflected in one of the reports commissioned by your Government, Mr Urkullu. You apologized to the victims of the scam last September 20. Mr. Darpón, far from following his example, condemns them to repeat the examination with the same court. Lehendakari, you are in time to pay this outstanding debt to all those to whom Mr Darpón did not guarantee equal opportunities. Do not miss that opportunity, because Osakidetza, indeed, one third of its total budget also deserves a better manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Macazaga, with the quietest possible tone and calmest: Has anyone in my party disqualified me? Someone will tell me who has disowned me, either from this parliamentary group or from the party. You said that about the scam. I didn't apologize for the scam, you said scam and you'll have to prove it, in your case, if you want. Look, Councillor Jon Darpón has apologized to the 96,000 people involved and especially to the 316 affected by the repetition of the evidence. It has shown its commitment from the outset, requested an independent psychometric study for all the tests carried out and, in view of the results, encouraged the opening of the eight information dossiers. Mrs Macazaga, what is the point of the parliamentary committees? It has been the affected courts themselves that, by virtue of their autonomy, have decided to repeat the evidence in three categories and to continue the rest. It has ensured that the OPE will complete with full guarantees of equal opportunities; it has undertaken to reach the end of the investigation and has transparently informed, in addition to the courts, the follow-up committee, the parliamentary groups, Mrs Macazaga, and the Ararteko, also sending the information files on its own initiative to the Prosecutor's Office. If you don't get to all this, Mrs. Macazaga, we are in an unreal world or in a different world. He is also drawing up the proposals for improvement, as requested by this Parliament, and has acted responsibly, promptly and prudently, carrying out an objective and transparent investigation, and you have all the information, Mrs Macazaga, you have all the information. We are doing what we should do, offering all the information and respecting the presumption of innocence of people. This is responsible management. Look, the responsibility of the advisor, the department and Osakidetza is to complete the public offer of employment with all guarantees of equal opportunities. That is the responsibility and it is doing so with absolute dedication and offering detailed and complete information. And as far as management is concerned, Osakidetza continues to offer quality care, improves its equipment with an additional investment of 15 million, guarantees the interoperability of the electronic recipe, approves the oncological plan, the screening of cervix, approves the socio-health strategy and elaborates the primary care strategy. The new building of BioCruces completes the services of Urduliz Hospital and on Monday opens the new hospital of Eibar, among other things Osakidetza and the Department of Health and its management. These actions are carried out by the adviser at the head of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. The result has been published by the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health of the State. The Basque public health service is the best of all communities. This is the result of responsible management of the Basque Health Service, which has the recognition of society, the Government and my own, as well as the recognition of the adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The Interition, The Maider Ottamounta Tolosa EH Collectoral Laws made for Environmental, Planting, and Housing Department, about Housing Law development." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u49	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. In the gathering on June 18, 2015, the law of 3/2015 was admitted, that of Housing, whose purpose was to regulate the right to a decent and proper housing. The law is very advanced, very important measures, and which offer a very suitable instrument to bring forward a very advanced domestic policy. But many of these considerations and instruments require the need of a subsequent development, and this law must be properly developed in order to be truly effective, and to place domestic policy in a better direction, otherwise our good law is useless. According to what was specified in an answer from the HUD, you predict that about 40 rules will have to be developed, but unfortunately, this development of the law is slow. I'd like to emphasize four important tools or aspects of the law today. In the first place, the subjective right which is the fundamental element of the Housing Law, the confession of the right to be a worthy and adequate housing. According to the meeting in February 9th, 2017, we requested the parliamentary decree to develop the subjective right of the housing obtained within nine months' time. On the 6th of July, 2017, you accepted the pre-descript project, but as soon as you knew the contents she received, many opposite attitudes appeared. Many of the agents, including several unions, fired the STOP Platforms themselves, or ourselves, as we had collected EH, were strongly criticized by this pre-descript project and corrections on the September, because the law itself was visibly declining. I'm not going to start counting on all the absences of the decree project, but I'd like to insist on the subsidy character and the ridiculous number of subsidies that the economic preparation for the housing loses. Where does anyone go with a 250 euros rent when our Autonomy in Estate is 983 euros? And this price is going on all the time. 19% of the last five years have raised the rent price. Where are we going with a 250 euro action? It's been more than a year since then, and in the first place, all the amendments introduced have not been answered. It has been proposed that it is the will of the government to renew the decree, whether these or at least many of these corrections be considered, but we have no opportunity to make sure it is so. We were told that it would not be possible for the legislature to complete the nine months' term, that it takes more time to develop the subjective right, because it is an instinctive subject, and it affects many people. But the subjective right of the house, which is the back of the law, is not regulated by the law for three years after the law was admitted. It's the other thing that's taken in the law about the housing resources. The law plainly states that the means of domestic resources which are available must be directed to promote the rental housing for the collective members of the worst condition. 90% of the housing resources excepted for 100% of the resources that are designed to rebavate at 2020, of course, we need to trace all these resources to the rental police, which will be less than that percentage of the volume built on the public protection rules. And I insist on the volume of what is built on the public rule. This clearly indicates that at least 90% of everything that's built we need to go to rent, and that from 2020 no public security housing can be sold. And don't continue to cheat and interpret this law into your position. Don't conclude that as far as the department's resources are exhausted, and as far as it enables self-infination, the housing of the public protection can be sold. The law is clear. At least we see him very clearly. So we hope that you will complete this, and we hope that in this year's budgets we bring all this in good hands, by securing that at least 90% of the public protection housing that will be raised, by filling and planning what the investment of future constructions receive from the law, one year 2020 can't be sold, and defining what all resources are adapted to. But, of course, it's almost 90%, 90% of pureness. It is necessary to direct a much larger number to beautiful housing than the present, we must either be compared with the most social protections in Europe, or at least we must make this way without so much as looking at the South. Let's go watch the north. Another important aspect of the law is the definition of an unpeopled house, and it contains tools to be able to intervene in the housing which do not conform to social function, others to create a collection of homes without people, which may be applied to the houses without people, and to oblige them to surrender, or to deprive them of their wants. But unfortunately, in all that belongs to an unpeopled apartment, and the development which it ought to be, we are greatly retarded in a great measure by the invasion of the Spanish State, where a foreign court has taken possession of our law, and these interventions which I have mentioned have hitherto been in suspense. At length the Constitutional Court has given us reason in some other way, which was indissoluble, and of course the definitions of houses without people and without people, and the tools I have mentioned have every guarantee to apply. On the 27th of October, 2017, we discussed another proposal, about the Housing Law, and then arrived at a large agreement. We asked him to define the necessary procedures and do all the necessary initiatives in the United States so that at the very moment when the Constitutional Court raises suspense, we could start the register of vacant housing. This, it seems, will not be possible either, that what has been requested by the Parliament a year ago will not be fulfilled. Finally, the fourth thing we want to remark is that the autonomous organization, which should have been introduced in force in a year's time, will either unite or unite all the public and organizations in the housing area. I know that every time we have asked or discussed it, this answers to us, that there is no priority for you in the government saying that there is no necessary co-ordination between all these organizations or public corporations, but that you, whether you like it or not, receive it in the third part of the final regulations, and that it must be produced in a year's time. Therefore, as you often say, the laws are fulfilled, and you are breaking the laws consciously. And to conclude, I would like to speak of the last point which this Assembly of Laws agreed upon, in the dispute of that proposition, which I have before mentioned. The words were spoken: "The American asks you to present a detailed development of the Housing Law, to the orientation of the steps to be given in development, and of the rules which are to be done, and of all other respects to the effective development of the law." But we haven't got this planning yet, and this indicates the position of this government to this legislature, and respect those who agree to it here. You've had a year for that, but nothing. So we're doing you a very direct interpelation, Mr. Chief. What's the planning of the Environmental Plant and Housing Department that fixes the deadlines and prioritys for the integration of the law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u50	Thank you, Madam Mount. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u51	My dear volcano, you received directly information on the state of various regulations in the development of the Housing Act in this week. In fact, we're having a meeting with all the Houses of Parliament in order to prepare a decree for the deserted housing. The Constitutional Court's ruling of 19 September 2015 on our Housing Act, by the way, a unanimous decision, leaves the road to the Housing Act at virtually all its ends, and this validation will allow us to develop the rule in all its substantive scope. As we have indicated on other occasions, the content of the law includes up to 40 mandates and forecasts that require further regulatory developments. We have internally grouped them into about 21 developments. It is true that the development of the law is slow, but I think this pause is understandable because it is due to two variables that we have found ourselves on the way. First, the threatening uncertainties surrounding the law due to the appeal to the Constitutional Court filed in 2016 by the People's Party Government, which have been cleared only a few days ago and in a positive way, as I have indicated. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that these regulatory developments in a law have their own administrative procedures of consultation and processing, which are not precisely brief. Moreover, in many respects we are talking not only about mere rules, but about genuine system and model changes over what has existed so far. These are structural changes and not just regulatory changes. Two very important regulations have already been developed by decree, such as the bail and record of leases in the previous legislature, and the ITE, which regulates the technical inspection of buildings. We also approved last year the Instrumental Decree on the Financing of Protected Housing Actions for 2017, and before the end of this year we will adopt another Instrumental Decree on Protected Housing Actions that will support this financial section until 2020, that is, for the entire legislature. This decree goes with two additional associated instruments, such as the financial agreement with credit institutions and a new financial instrument, Renove Rehabilitation, which will extend until 2023 and which links with the intensive rehabilitation actions contained in its energy efficiency section, the operational program Feder 2014-2020. For the first time, housing has been able to enter the composition of these European structural funds and we are now getting ERDF returns of up to 50% on the investments subsidized in this area by the department. In 2019 we will adopt two absolutely decisive regulations for the Housing Act, as will be the decree on the subjective right to housing and that of uninhabited housing. As far as the future decree of the subjective right to housing is concerned, what you have said here in this rostrum is true. But I must point out that right now the scope of subjective law is already being guaranteed at all its extremes. Because in 2018 the three successive steps of incorporation into the subjective law that contemplated the fourth transitional provision of the Housing Act are already applied in its entirety, so it can be said that we are already facing the subjective right of housing in all its terms, as you well know, and with the results that we have been offering regularly. As of 30 September this year, 5,441 applications for subjective housing rights had been received and 3,779 rights have been recognized. In turn, rental aid benefits are being met, either from the Housing Department itself, through the economic housing benefit, linked to the subjective law, or even mostly by Lanbide, through the supplementary housing benefit. In this case, according to data from August, there were almost 26,300 benefits paid. And I want to insist on this idea, regardless of whether or not we have the decree that develops the subjective right to housing today, the rights that the law recognizes are being realized in all its terms, without any prejudice to citizenship, which is ultimately what it is all about. However, the new decree on the subjective right to housing includes the automatic termination of the supplementary housing benefit and its integration into housing policy. This requires the creation of a new media structure, and human resources are fundamental among them, enabling us to fully manage the right of access to housing under the 2015 law and ensuring the plan of transfer and convergence of the supplementary housing provision to the economic housing provision. This is a complex, difficult process, in which we have an absolute priority: that no person with rights can be harmed by the administrative transit between the two systems. In fact, we have already committed ourselves in this House to ensuring that, in effective terms, no one remains on the road to this structural change that we need to address. The contents of the subjective right to housing are closed, we have advanced the literature of the decree, but the associated resources and the new structure that must emerge are still in the process of configuration. All the factors involved in this structural change, which is very profound in all areas, will confluence and will see the light, as I said, throughout 2019 and the change will have to be concluded successfully and with full guarantees of quality of service for those who use the public housing system. With regard to the decree on uninhabited housing, we already have a complete initial text, which will soon begin its administrative processing. The forecast is that it can be approved in the second half of next year. But in the same way that we have taken advantage of the wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling to move forward in its drafting, we want to take advantage of the time it will take to carry out mandatory reports and consultations to ensure that the decree can be effective almost from the moment of its entry into force. In this area, it is essential to ensure that the municipalities, which are the institutions that must first use the intervention tools on manageable uninhabited housing, are in full harmony with each other. We will put our hands to the work immediately to inform the municipalities, through Eudel, of the guts of the decree and also to help them prepare their application, as has been done in the case of the ITE. The experience gained by the department in the inspection of housing, which in practice uses the same means of proof as in the law to determine whether a dwelling is uninhabited, is an asset that we have and that will also serve us in this matter. You have referred to the commitments, which are being fulfilled by this department, for the allocation of resources in more than 80% to housing policies, starting with more than 80% of the estimated housing at rent. Commitments that are being fulfilled by this department, which are also reflected, as you know, in the Housing Master Plan, as a result of the development of the law, and which from 2020 those resources, except those which they are intended for rehabilitation, they will have to be 100%. I ratify in this rostrum the commitment of this department to comply with those extremes of the law, as we have been doing to this day. And as for the merger into an autonomous body of public housing societies, we consider, and have told you on other occasions, that it is certainly not a priority within the tasks that concentrate the efforts of the department; we have other priorities that consume our capacities and resources. You know that historically there has already been a concentration in housing societies. In fact, there was a merger between Alokabide and SPGVA, and in the past legislature there was also integration in Visesa de Orubide. Today, both Visesa and Alokabide are perfectly aligned with the policy that marks the vice-advisory and work in practice as two areas of the same, one dedicated to the management of rent and the other to the promotion of social housing. In addition, taking the step of making the public body would mean that we would have to publish absolutely Visesa and we would have to compensate the private partners of the company, Kutxabank and Caja Laboral, with a significant amount of money, and I believe that it is more priority to devote to real rental policies. Well, I have more lines of action than I'll comment on, but time runs out and in my next shift we'll keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Your time is up. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u53	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Arriola. Yes, you said well this week, not this week, I'm sorry for last week-no, on Tuesday, I have lost time with the deputy physician and the manager of Visesa, as you said. And, above all, we've been talking about this decree of non-commissioned housing, because of the record of non-peopled housing. And we've been working about the canon and the decree that's going to regulate all this. And he has told us, yes, that it is his intention to develop it all over the year, and to put it in force before the end of the year. But that's not the point, and I told him too. The point is, this parliament demanded a year ago that the census should have been made at the very moment when it was raised to force it. I know, and he explained to me the procedure of a decree to fill up the chronogram, but that doesn't mean that the law has been suspended for a year. The rhold was already running, at least almost entirely. I need such a procedure, from the time when the Parliament gave an order for so much time, when it's over a year and it's barely advanced, and when it's said to me, maybe 2019 to the end, and I'm afraid of the decree that we'll have to make at the end of 2019. And it is essential to face the problems we have in the housing, because it is necessary that the registration of the houses without people should be established, because, considering the jurisdictions of the townships, they themselves can take measures to prevent the problems of the empty house. Rents are absolutely indispensable, both to oppose the subjective right, to hire, to give them that leap for the donation. We need a housing, a public protection housing, a rental housing. We know that. We all know, we're conscious. There are two ways to deal directly. Above all, the enlargement of promotements, the establishment of more resources to promote the suffrages. To strengthen tools is also true, but the next course is to increase the public rent park by means of those programmes, or the programmes which are made up. To cap on those programs that are in force for more housing... The reality of non-peopled housing is there and as long as we don't have that census, we can't go any further. And you know that. We all know. So, please, the chronograms are there, multiple references, so many reports, so many things I don't know what to need, but please speed up. We can't wait until the end of 2019 for this decree. On the other hand, you said the resources. Yes, how the resources are interpreted. You're always talking economic resources when you refer to budgets. I have inserted a new variable here, which is at least 80% of the construction volume, and from 2020 to 100 rents. You're telling me since 2020, according to your schedules, not a single flat will be sold since 2020? No public protection housing will sell? Or if all these promotions which are now established, end in 2020-21, if they are directed to the sale, will you continue to sell them? Could you make sure that 100 percent will not be sold? I don't interpret it that way. I don't interpret that in the budget you're making and the plans you're doing. And I'd like to add it in the section of the resources, in that 2018-20 Housing Plan, you mentioned, that it was marked that it would lead to certain suites, or that it would help with a number of suites, in order to strengthen the public park. We made an agreement from the opposition and we increased 25% of all these resources. I only hope that's what's going on in the budget right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u54	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Thank you. Your time is up. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u55	Mrs. Otamendi. Indeed, Parliament asked us to move forward in the regulation on the development of uninhabited housing without waiting for the Constitutional Court's ruling, and that is what we have done. That's what we've done. And from the judgment, once we already know and have legal certainty, we start conversations and contacts with all the groups in this House. We will do so with Eudel, to refine already a text that allows us to begin its processing. We are on 19 October and the aim is that we can start the procedure for the adoption of this decree before the end of the year. And do you know what it takes here to pass a decree, in this administration? A dick, isn't it? I would like to see it take less, but that is what it takes, from the point of view of all the reports that are required for the final adoption of a decree. I can tell you that from 2020 no new public promotion homes will be opened for sale. This is the commitment and this is what I can assure you from the rostrum in compliance with the Housing Act. I will continue to raise a number of further issues with regard to policy development, which we are working on. In 2019, other important standards for housing policy will also come into force. One will come from the hand of the new systems of aid to the rehabilitation of houses and buildings, accessibility and energy efficiency, which will be integrated into a single system. They will involve the implementation of the decided option of the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan to strengthen the rehabilitation policy. And within it, for a novel strategy to mobilize uninhabited dwellings and direct them towards the programs of public intermediation, linking them to their previous structural reform, as well as a special plan of accessibility very powerful focused for people aged 65 and over. Another rule will be the implementation of new rental promotion programmes to make private intervention economically feasible through public-private collaboration and that of other public actors and NGOs with the aim of increasing the supply of affordable rental housing with greater power. The department and Visesa have been fulfilling and we will meet the objectives planned in the Housing Master Plan, but we must be able to capture more allies in this cause. We will also publish another instrumental decree relating in this case to the modernization of the ASAP programme, increasing its income price scales and the power of public support, although always with important differences with respect to the Bizigune programme. In 2020 we want to adopt the new Etxebide decree with the exception that the aspects of social cohesion and the new quota system in public promotion buildings will be included in the decree on subjective housing law next year. In addition, the new regulation of the section on urban rehabilitation, renovation and regeneration of the law, Chapter VII, and the decree that will develop the public land stock, will be implemented in 2020. Finally, we want to close the legislature with a new regulation of the prices and maximum incomes of public protection housing because it has not changed since 2010, and we understand that the time has come to translate into a new regulation the multiple changes in context and structure generated in this decade. As you see, Mrs Otamendi, although it is difficult to carry out the deployment of the Housing Act, we have not slept, much less. On the occasion of the presentation of the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan, and in this parliamentary seat, I affirmed that the department's vision and purpose was to have the development of the Housing Act in three years' time. I believe that this programming is being carried out, which is not limited to the important regulatory work that is being carried out, because meeting the requirements of the Housing Act also requires capturing the necessary economic resources and applying an efficient management model that is close to citizens and other institutions. Only in this way will we be able to lay the foundations for a new sustainable housing policy in the long term, which truly addresses the social role of housing and the needs of people. And in that task we are, Mrs. Otamendi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team made for environmental, Planting and Housing Department, Eukadin eucalyptus decinating the invader species." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Arriola, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Arriola, we all know that eucalyptus is problematic, and we all know he's in trouble about environment and security, because it increases fires. But though we have known for a long time, by the disease of the pines, our suspicion and our fear that the eucalyptus will be planted more, and that these affairs will increase. Klaro, these problems are serious, as I have said, the eucalyptus dilating the soil and impoverishing the eucalyptus spices, and the eucalyptus itself extends to the other areas. If the government has its tools and jurisdictions to oppose these problems, we propose today or ask you whether you will use the eucalyptus to name them as an exotic species of inbasore. The interpellation we make to him is clear today, we believe that the problems created by the eucalyptus, which are serious because it alters the soil, because it drains the aquifers, because it reduces the vegetation cover, because it causes the displacement of native species and colonizes, allows the colonization of other non-autochthonous species and, moreover, because it expands and colonizes degraded lands and because it increases the risk of fire. The problems as I say of the eucalyptus, the fear our group has is that with pine diseases, with pine disease, that is used to plant more eucalyptus and that, therefore, the problem increases. The pine crisis is, on the one hand, that there are more deforested spaces because sick pines are going to be cut and, on the other hand, that in private land it is chosen to replace a kind of rapid growth, such as pine, with another kind of even faster growth, such as eucalyptus. These possible solutions – which is our fear – can be adopted are not a solution from the point of view of forest management, but they are a resource, let's say, an easy economic one, to get a quick return on investment, but at the same time they are an important threat from the ecological point of view. And, then, our concern is how we can prevent that from happening, how we can prevent the problems that are already known in this country associated with the eucalyptus, which have them elsewhere much more than in Euskadi, from coming here to Euskadi. And the Basque Government has a competence, it has a competence in the field that it can use and it is that of registering the eucalyptus in the Basque catalogue of exotic species. There is scientific unanimity about the risks, the damage that eucalyptus can cause. The scientific committee that advises the Spanish catalogue of exotic species has said in a report issued on 1 December 2017, that the eucalyptus has an invasive character, on the one hand, and that it is necessary to extreme caution with new introductions and plantations, as well as to carry out eradication measures provided that naturalization of any species of eucalyptus is observed. This scientific committee refers to the Spanish State but, of course, these recommendations are perfectly extendable to Basque territory. So the Basque Government has the possibility of preventing this from happening, of preventing the eucalyptus from progressing in our territory, from progressing in the forestry policies of our territory, by two channels. On the one hand, you as Administration can propose that the eucalyptus be included in the state catalogue of invasive species, and on the other hand, you can register it in the Basque catalogue of invasive species. And the question is clear and I am not going to run out of time to put it: do you intend to use any of these ways to avoid the problems associated with eucalyptus?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra, first of all, I would like to spell out the justification for the question, since it presents as a fact of indisputable validity what is a recommendation of a committee. Because it is true that, as you said, in 2017 the scientific committee that advises in this matter to the then Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Food and Environment, today Ministry for the Ecological Transition, dictated the invasive character of the different varieties of the eucalyptus tree, and recommended to include in the Spanish catalog of alien invasive species all the species of eucalyptus But it should also be pointed out that this opinion was analysed as a further contribution within the procedure, requested by the Coruñés Concello de Teo in this sense, a procedure that ended – also to be said – with the rejection of the request for the inclusion of eucalyptus in the Spanish catalogue of non-invasive exotic species. The subsequent dismissal has been appealed by the Concello de Teo through the contentious-administrative route and the cause is still in its early stages. But in the processing of the request, the Ministry's General Forestry Policy Branch issued another report in which it denounced a tendentious attitude on the part of the scientific committee in order to issue a judgment of premeditated value as to the invasive nature of these species, allegedly based on non-scientific criteria and on personal and political opinions. And he provided an expert report, signed by the mountain engineer Luis Alfonso Gil of the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, which maintains that eucalyptus plantations play a fundamental role in the rural development of the cantabrian cornice, being subjected to strict regulatory regulation for its planting, being unable to be considered an invasive species because there is no scientific basis or consensus for its declaration, nor to invade spontaneously areas beyond what its plantations occupy. With this, Mr Becerra, I do not intend to prejudge anything or align myself with one position or another in this debate. I just want to make it clear that there is no unanimous opinion on this matter and that a number of circumstances and views must be taken into account in addressing it. On the general problem of invasive alien species, it should be noted that the European Regulation of 2014 on the prevention of the management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species defines any live specimen of a species or subspecies or lower taxon of animals, plants, fungi or microorganisms introduced outside its natural distribution area as an exotic species. For its part, the 2007 State Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity defines invasive alien species as those that are introduced or established in a single natural or semi-natural system or habitat and that are an agent of change and threat to native biological diversity, either because of their invasive behaviour or because of the risk of genetic contamination. It is well known and internationally accepted by conservationists, authorities and associations that biological invasions and invasive alien species represent one of the major threats to biodiversity and associated ecosystem services. There is also a broad understanding that the risks posed by these species can be increased due to increased global trade, transport, tourism and climate change. The threat posed by live specimens of invasive alien species includes serious effects on native species and ecosystems through habitat alteration. It promotes predation, competition, disease transmission, the replacement of indigenous species in a significant proportion of their range, and generates genetic effects by hybridization. On the other hand, invasive alien species can also adversely affect human health and the economy. However, from a policy point of view, important rules have been enacted at different administrative levels. The Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity includes a chapter dedicated to the prevention and control of invasive alien species, through the creation of the Spanish catalogue of invasive alien species, which includes, where technical or scientific information so advises, all species and subspecies that constitute a serious threat to native species, habitats, ecosystems, agronomy or economic resources associated with the use of natural heritage. The determination of these species was approved in the first instance by means of a royal decree of November 2011, which regulates the Spanish list and catalogue of invasive alien species. The second annex of this royal decree contained the list of alien species of invasive potential, which included, although only for the Canary Islands, two species of eucalyptus: eucalyptus camaldunensis eucalyptus globulus However, this royal decree of 2011 was annulled by the courts and had to be replaced by Royal Decree 630/2013 of 2 August, which regulates the Spanish catalogue of invasive alien species. And there is the circumstance that in this decree the list of exotic species disappears as a potential invader and, therefore, makes no reference to the genus eucalyptus Regulation 1143/2014 on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species was subsequently adopted for the whole of the European Union at the end of 2014. It provides for the creation of a list of invasive alien species of concern to the Union, the first version of which was approved in mid-2016. Well, this listing also does not include any of the species of the genus eucalyptus As for the environmental regulations of our community, neither the Nature Conservation Act of 1994 nor its amendment by legislative decree of 2014 include explicit references to invasive alien species. The only thing that is said is that the actions of the Basque public administrations in favour of the preservation of the genetic diversity of the natural heritage will be based, inter alia, on the following criterion: "To weigh the introduction and proliferation of species, subspecies or geographical races other than indigenous ones, and to avoid them to the extent that they can compete with them, alter their genetic purity or ecological balances". However, I do anticipate that in the preliminary draft law on the conservation of the natural heritage of Euskadi, which this department is promoting and processing, and which is currently in the process of responding to allegations, a title is dedicated to the protection of wild species of fauna and flora. And the article provides for the creation of the Basque catalogue of invasive alien species, which may include those that qualify as worrying for the autonomous community, as well as measures to prevent their rooting, control and follow up their presence and, if possible, for their eradication. But all this, of course, will have to be done in line with the rules that exist in the European framework, because we are not an island and, moreover, taking into account scientific evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u61	Señor Arriola. Let's see, to act on this subject you need three things: one, legal instruments; two, scientific evidence; and three, political will. Legal instruments have, it is not necessary to wait for its bill, it is not necessary to wait for its bill, because the current law on biodiversity, the state law, says in its article 64.6: "The autonomous communities, in their respective territorial areas, will be able to establish catalogues of invasive alien species, determining the prohibitions and supplementary actions that are deemed necessary for their eradication". That is, you have enough legal tools to act today. The next question is that of scientific evidence and there I have been concerned, it has worried me that you have said that the scientific committee appointed by the Ministry, with 19 members, all of them university professors, doctors and absolutely experts in this matter, has given a political opinion. I am concerned, because there are 19 opinions, one of which is that of the expert appointed by Euskadi, who works in public society Ihobe. I want you to tell me: Has that public society expert Ihobe given a political opinion or is he an expert in this matter, really? Therefore, I believe that questioning the unanimous opinion of 19 experts of a scientific committee officially appointed by a ministry, that when it says something that the ministry does not like, the ministry orders a counter-report... of course, it is not a political opinion, from my humble point of view. I want you to confirm to me whether the person, the person appointed by Euskadi to be on that committee has given a political opinion with which you disagree. But besides, I'm going to tell you one thing. The Junta de Andalucía, which has the same political opinion, has designated the eucalyptus as an invasive species, and has not only designated it, but has put it in the Andalusian program for the control of invasive alien species and is replacing the eucalyptus in all public natural spaces of Andalucia. And I'd like you to tell me, is the Andalusian Junta doing anything wrong by giving a political boost to the fight against eucalyptus as an invasive species? Those three questions have to be answered. If you have legal instruments and are going to use them; if you think that Ihobe's representative's opinion on this scientific committee is political or technical, and if you think that the Andalusian Board is acting badly and that, therefore, you should turn to other interests other than those of nature protection. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Becerra, I speak slowly today so that I can be understood, because besides, if I speak fast, I'm stuck. But when I speak slowly I at least think that they understand me when I intervene in this rostrum. And as for the reference you make to me on whether I consider it a political opinion or not, because I have said here that it is a political opinion that the experts put forward regarding the eucalyptus, I will read the paragraph again, to see if this time with the second reading, it remains to you more recorded what I wanted to say: "The processing of the request, the general sub-director of forest policy of the Ministry itself, issued another report in which it denounced a tendentious attitude on the part of the scientific committee in order to issue a judgment of premeditated value regarding the invasive character of these species, supposedly based on non-scientific criteria and on personal and political opinions". Is that clear to you? I have not stated in this rostrum that my opinion is that. I am referring in this rostrum, and I have said this, to the fact that this is an issue on which there is no unanimity, and that there are scientific views also found, and in that regard I have referred to an expert report following this paragraph. Well, Mr. Becerra, no one is hidden from you, and you have acknowledged here, that this inquiry has brought you, first, to make a motion. Here are motions as a result of interpellation, but I believe that they are done precisely to make the motion, not as a result of it. It has brought this inquiry here as a result of the problem that is being experienced in pine plantations in the Autonomous Community because of the infection known as the brown band and its effects on the Basque forest sector. And it is true that this sector, in recent years, as an alternative to the radiata or insignia pine, has resorted to a greater planting of eucalyptus. Although, we must tell the truth, at present the extent of eucalyptus in Euskadi, of the entire forest area, amounts to a total of 18,194 hectares of eucalyptus, which represents a 4.58 % of the total forest area in Euskadi. However, and not being alien to the environmental and other implications of the matter, we believe that the problem is not solved by the hasty way of declaring the different varieties of eucalyptus In order to do so, a regulatory framework is needed first and foremost to enable us to do so and, as I have already explained, there is no such framework at this time. Secondly, any decision must be addressed with the utmost scientific and technical rigour, based on scientific evidence that supports the invasive character, on the actual situation of the species in the territory of the community. Thirdly, it will be necessary to count on all the public administrations concerned. And also with the sectors that would be affected, starting with the primary sector and the forestry sector. And of course the environmental, social and economic implications must be taken into account, weighing the steps, deadlines, alternative measures, measures, even compensation, etc. Our department is committed in this area to achieving a balance between the protective role of forests and their sustainable economic use, which is a guarantee for their proper conservation. This is what we are doing, according to our expertise, in those areas that require it for their environmental interest and vulnerability, specifically in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, where we are promoting the replacement of short-cycle species, such as pines and eucalyptus, by long-cycle native species, such as oaks, beech, and oaks. In this regard, we are in the process of drafting a decree which states: "Subsidies for the economic compensation of holders of existing forest holdings are approved for the loss of financial profitability caused by the modification of the Master Plan for the use and management of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve and its proper environmental management through custody agreements". This decree, which has already passed the phase of public consultation, aims to promote the progressive replacement of alloctone forest species, alien to our ecosystem, by other autochthonous species and more in line with the environmental characteristics of our territory, compensating the holders of existing forest farms for the reduction of the profitability of the change. And we're also going to provide support coverage for custody agreements with conservationist entities. We believe that these and other formulas, although limited to a space of special environmental interest, are perfectly transferable to other broader areas and will help something in which you and I agree, a more sustainable forest management and in tune with other ecosystems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to environmental, Land Planet, and Housing department, IX of the 18th of June of Hooli. "About setting up the chapter." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u65	Good morning. Thank you. The shortage of the protected housing park is a major challenge. The survey of housing needs and applicants says that Basque society demands around 65,000 homes to cover the need for access to the first home and another 50,000 to change habitual housing. In addition, Etxebide has more than 60,000 applications for protected housing. In front of this, according to RedMunch's records, 22,000 units are ungovernable. That would have to be the need to increase the public protection housing park. For instance, the Architect himself brought this necessity into the report of the Chamber of 2017. In fact, he said, calling out the Esscal Administration, it was necessary to enlarge the park of the public protection. We need to develop all the tools that are in our power to mobilize empty housing. And today we talk about sentences, he has spoken before, we talk about laws, decrees, but behind, behind, what we are talking about is the people, the Basque citizenship, the need to have a decent housing and a decent housing insured from the public, as our Housing Law says. We are talking about rights, rights that serve to satisfy or not, whether or not our people's dreams are fulfilled. The worthy life of our people and the reality is that we have a law, a law that is not our law, but that is the law that was passed and that has powerful instruments, but that has a slow development, and at first also by a sentence, that has been resolved successfully, and also with instruments that are not adequate to satisfy with guarantees the right to housing. Because the subjective right to housing is subsidiary to the allocation of housing and is becoming the norm. And because neither with 250 euros are we going to satisfy that need. Taking into account, moreover, that between 2013 and 2018 the rental price, the average in Euskadi, has risen by 20 %. And in just one year in Bizkaia 5% and in Gipuzkoa 23%. As I said, the current law has tools that have to be developed, because otherwise, it does not serve, such as the registration of empty dwellings, the charging of the canon, forced rent... we think that these are tools that must be used to mobilize the housing park. We must urgently develop this law, given also the problem of some of the ambiguities that need to be clarified, which need to be developed directly. Because there are issues that remain within the competence of the municipalities, others of the Basque Government, some remain in the middle, we do not know, and we have to develop these aspects with guarantees. But also because this urgency is framed by this House. First, on November 3, 2017, a non-legislative proposal that was passed in this plenary, which urged to stay in the shortest possible time. Well, there's no deadline. Okay. July, 4 July 2018, presentation of the master plan, motions for resolutions. We agreed on a motion for a resolution which said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to define the necessary procedures and to carry out all the necessary actions so that at the moment when the Constitutional Court lifts the current suspension, the register of uninhabited dwellings can be launched". No one is saying that at the time of the judgement's knowledge it was put in place, but I also don't think the deadlines have to go until the end of 2019, because a previous job could have been done. The Constitutional Court, as we have said and as has been said before, makes the judgment public, and it is good news. I don't think anyone says otherwise. It validates the definition of uninhabited housing as a violation of its social function, but in an appearance of its department, we have doubts as to the actions that the Basque Government will take in this matter, and that is why we are doing this inquiry. At that appearance, it was stated, and we have heard it today as well, that regulatory development will culminate in the second half of 2019, and I believe that the deadlines set by the House are clear, either immediately or by the time the ruling is published. I do not think any group in this House is going to ask, as I have already said, to do so immediately, the minute after the publication of the sentence, but that does not justify us waiting for a year, because what we had talked about and what we had negotiated in applying that consensus also in the housing monograph is that it was as fast as possible, and a year or more than a year does not seem to be as fast as possible. And we have the precedent, moreover, of the decree of the subjective right of housing, which is being delayed sine die and we do not know what is going on. Basque society made allegations, they're there, we don't know what's going to happen. And that's the schedule he's planning from the department. It collides with the agreements of the Basque Parliament, but I think it hits pretty wide. It does not agree with the agreements of this Chamber, but it is becoming clear that we leave the application of these decrees for 2019. If we talk about the issue of unoccupied housing, there are different laws in the Spanish State. The Basque law remains a little in the middle, in the middle of the laws that have been passed and it is a competition that remains between the municipalities and the Basque Government. But in the appearance, as with the deadlines, we also stayed in the appearance they made before the media after the sentence, we left with some doubts that we wanted to resolve through this inquiry. Because, despite the fact that it is said that there will be municipalities that will act within the municipal jurisdiction itself, it then indicates that in order to implement the set of measures of the law one must wait for the regulatory development of the procedure of creation of uninhabited housing, something that you have already said today for the second time that will happen in the second half of 2019, that is, within a year. So it also turns out that it is not clear to us, at least to us, whether the municipalities can choose not to develop any regulations at all, as the law seems to allow, and thus wait for the government to act in the municipalities. We understand that this must be a municipal obligation, but it is not clear whether they will have to wait for such government regulations or not. And then the cannon regulation. It is understood that it can be done by municipal ordinance, just as it is done with the IBI surcharge, and that there is no need to wait for autonomous regulation, beyond what is already established in the Law. But we are not clear whether some kind of autonomous regulation is going to be implemented from the Basque Government. And with regard to forced rent, which is another aspect to be developed, it is only provided for in the law in areas of accredited demand and need for housing, but we do not know whether it is the Basque Government that has to develop how this is to be done or whether the declaration that forced has to be made by the municipalities, they have to take that initiative within the municipal competences of forced expropriation itself. So, these indefinitions, which some were drawn from the law itself but also from the regulatory development of the law itself, are not clear to us. After the ruling of the Constitutional Court and after that press conference, the meaning of this inquiry is clear. It is asked to know the provision of the department to implement all these legal measures that chapter IX of the law establishes that the municipalities also have jurisdiction, how all this is to be regulated, how all this is to be ordered and what time limits the Government envisages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u66	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, you may recall that at the beginning of April this year, in replying to a written question from EH Bildu's parliamentary group on the situation of the uninhabited housing regulations, I indicated that there had been an immediate event relevant to this issue, and I referred to the ruling issued by the Constitutional Court on 22 February on the Navarra law on urgent measures to guarantee the right to housing in 2013. I pointed out in that reply that the Constitutional Court understood that the Foral Community of Navarra was competent to influence the delimitation of the right of ownership by having the matter of housing assigned by statute and, more precisely, the definition of its social function through regulations aimed at meeting the general interests related to guaranteeing citizens the enjoyment of decent housing. It was unconstitutional, however, the provisions allowing for forced expropriation in the case of persons in special circumstances of social emergency, when they were engaged in proceedings of eviction for foreclosure carried out by financial institutions. But these interventions were declared null and void not because of excessive or incongruent, but because there was already a state regulation in this regard, namely Law 1/2013 of 14 May, of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, the restructuring of debt and social rent, or the creation of the social fund. The Constitutional Court therefore understood that these State measures already placed burdens on mortgage creditors to alleviate the situation of debtors by regulating the mortgage market as a whole, so that it did not consider it appropriate to establish additional measures such as those provided for in the Navarra legislation, which the court considered could undermine the full effectiveness of State competition. In the same written reply, I pointed out that in our department we believed that the Constitutional Court's ruling on the People's Party Government's appeal against our housing law would put us too long, and we expressed our confidence that the Constitutional Court would recognize the Basque Government's ability to determine which dwellings could be classified as uninhabited in Euskadi, in accordance with the legal definition of the Basque housing law and through the guaranteed procedure contained therein. I ended my reply by stating that once we had analysed the content of the above-mentioned judgment, we had proceeded to initiate internally the development of the regulations governing the registration of uninhabited dwellings, with the intention of initiating its processing as a decree at the time when we were counting on the ruling of the Constitutional Court on our law. That is to say, we did not start working on the decree once we had the sentence, but already with the precedent of the ruling on the Navarra law, we restarted the internal work in order to have a draft that would allow us, when the ruling of the sentence came out and in anticipation that it would be in line with the ruling of the Navarra sentence, to be able also to start discussions with the parliamentary groups, with Eudel, etc., so that we could make progress, as far as possible, as long as was necessary to have the draft decree approved and to be able to begin its procedural processing. We're actually on October 19th, and the sentence was a few days ago, right? And we are saying that we want to begin the procedural processing of the decree before the end of the year. We are moving forward decisively on the basis that we have had a forecast and, indeed, also on the basis of the resolutions of this House to work internally to be able to move forward on what is the draft decree. He will also remember that I advanced that in this waiting time we had carried out the fieldwork in the survey on the use of housing which was an operation provided for in the last Basque statistical plan. Until 2015 this statistical survey was called Empty Housing Statistics, and the main purpose of the study was to know the number and solutions of the stock of unoccupied housing that we have in the autonomous community and to determine its use, second or seasonal and uninhabited, and within the latter identify those that are potentially manageable. It's a fundamental tool all of this. In other words, a double objective was intended. On the one hand, it was a question of determining the size of the non-main housing phenomenon in Euskadi – which is not intended for habitual residence – and, on the other hand, having an estimate of the number of dwellings occupied and gathering information on their condition, location and characteristics. And in fact, a couple of weeks ago we became aware of what the data from this survey are, that applying what are the parameters on the basis of which we consider the housing unoccupied by the Housing Act 2015, we would be talking about an estimated 20,840 uninhabited dwellings in Euskadi, 2% of the total housing stock in the Community. Including, in addition to this, those dwellings that have been vacant for more than six months, which are 13,626, we would be talking about a total of 34,466 dwellings that would be potentially mobile for programs of dynamism of the uninhabited housing. As a whole, 3.3% of the Euskadi housing park. It should also be said that, by territory, the uninhabited houses 16,456 are in Bizkaia, 11,610 in Gipuzkoa and 6,400 in Alava. It should also be said that on many occasions uninhabited housing does not correspond to the areas where there is more demand on the part of citizens, which are large cities and capitals. In fact, if the average we have of manageable housing is 3.3% of the housing stock, the average of the three capitals would be 1.8. In Donostia-San Sebastián, in particular, 1.4, in Bilbao, 1.6 and in Vitoria-Gasteiz, 2.3. And it must also be said that the fact that they are uninhabited does not mean that they can be inhabited immediately. And, in fact, the survey also tells us that an estimated 37.7% could be inhabited immediately, 26.6 requires light or moderate works and 16.8 require major reform. Finally, just six months have passed since the reply to which I referred, and our predictions and hopes have been confirmed positively by force of facts. First, the ruling issued by the Constitutional Court on 19 September on the Housing Act – approved, it must be said, unanimously – gives the rule a final green light at almost all its extremes and, therefore, we will be able to develop the law in all its substantive extent. A few days later, on October 3, I presented the results of the survey on the use of housing 2017 that allowed us to have a precise idea, as I have indicated, of the extent of the phenomenon of non-main dwellings in Euskadi, estimating the number of vacant dwellings and providing information about their condition and characteristics, and this information is very relevant to the design of public housing policy. In addition, we already have – as I have commented – an initial draft of the decree that develops in its entirety all the aspects that constitute the public housing policy, the placing on the market of uninhabited housing, because the aim of the law is not so much to pursue citizens, nor to sanction them. The aim of the law is for uninhabited housing, in this case, to enter the market, to enter the market both from sale and rent, and, to the extent possible, also to increase to a greater extent the public rental park policies carried out by the Basque Government with its social mediation programmes. And from these milestones, and already with a solid legal floor, in our department we continue to work to implement all the measures provided for in chapter IX of the law, which provides the competent administrations with the necessary resources to guarantee the social function of the housing. And in that regard, we will continue to work to ensure that these objectives can be translated into reality and that we have the tools necessary from the point of view of legislative development so that they can be a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Martinezon, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u69	Sí, thank you. The problem is that I've looked the same, that is, the same, the same. Bildu's answer we knew her, we're going to have a meeting with the department soon, and there's going to be a recognition, that's a department, that we're talking with the groups, that's not the general focus in the government. But I also have to recognize a certain slowness, and I do not mean to explain it, because in that it is well explained, but a certain slowness in the development of the law and above all indefinition. And no, it's that the interpellation was looking, I was looking for that, I was looking for a certain definition of the government, and I was, well, I was the same. So, Comrade Becerra used to tell him that he didn't know if he was going to file a motion with the interpellation he had. Well, I do. After the answer, because in a ratchet we will record it in the register, because we have not been clear any of the elements that we have asked you. The answer to Bildu, of course, was in writing, we know that. But those procedures that you say have been put in place, if from my parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups we come to a consensus that the register will be launched as soon as possible and immediately when the Constitutional Court is resolved, I have never told you before that we thought it would be the following Monday, but not a year later. So, well, then, a certain disappointment, a certain deception, at this time, and also personal, because it was up to me to manage this monographic debate, because I can feel it. Because it won't be in a day, but it won't be in a year. Because, what I said at the beginning, any unjustified delay in the implementation, in the regulatory, regulatory and budgetary development of the Housing Act has a direct impact on people of flesh and blood, on ordinary people in our country, on thousands of people who are not satisfied with the right to have a decent life, which is one of the main elements that makes it possible to have a decent life. And that is so, they can be bigger words, but any delay delays the application of that right and any covert cut through the massive application of an economic benefit, when what the law says is that it has to be a housing, it also has a direct impact on citizenship. Thus, similar laws have made it possible, for example, in Catalonia with a similar text, which is not the same, for municipalities from day one to do so. But the indefinacy we have here in Euskadi will make it possible for the municipalities to develop the register of uninhabited dwellings, either because of legal insecurity or because of a lack of political will. So, I believe that the role of the Basque Government – and you being one of the parties that promoted the Housing Act – should be to lead that process, it should be to order that process, it should be to do so with guarantees, yes, but also with the greatest possible speed, because, I insist again, that has an impact on citizenship. And it has an impact on citizenship because, in addition, at the end of the following year, we will also be in the pre-election year. Will the Basque Government be able to comply also with 2019 when, for example, the regulation in subjective law is not being able to meet the deadlines? The questions I was going to ask you in the reply are exactly the same as I asked you in the first speech, which have not been answered, because the data in the report, apart from the press conference, we know them from the report itself. It is good that you tell us in the House, but for that it was not the question, the question was for a clear answer as to what the Government is going to do, what the Government is going to order or what the Government is not going to order, and it is going to be at the mercy of the powers or the will of each of the municipalities. Our proposal is clear. One, the report of the Basque Government and two, free the process of recognition of the guarantee of the right to housing in Euskadi, especially speaking of chapter IX of this law. A clear leadership on the part of the Government, together with the municipalities, to give effect to the ruling of the Constitutional Court that enables us to develop our Housing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u70	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zaton. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Martinez, you're asking me for more concreteness and more definition. I can tell you what our lines of action are and what the deadlines are. I'm not gonna find anything new either. In addition to what I have stated in my previous speech, after hearing the ruling of the Constitutional Court, we have started a round with all the groups in the House and the reason is to tell them what I am referring to right now and, in addition, to advance the department's work matter, exchange views, try to agree and also share with you the line to follow, so that we develop that decree of chapter IX of the law. Contacts are in progress, they started last week, they have continued this week and precisely next week will be with you, with Elkarrekin Podemos. We will also meet soon with Eudel, because the municipalities have a fundamental role to play in the development and effectiveness of the future decree. And in that sense, we have to do things right, we have to be with the municipalities, we have to coordinate with them, because the first administration that has to act in the policy on uninhabited housing are the municipalities. In the declaration of uninhabited housing, in forced rent and, where appropriate, in expropriation, both administrations may intervene. In the canon only the municipalities. Although the law provides that the canon, once the uninhabited dwelling is declared, must be put in place. It's not a power thing, it's a law thing. But, in that sense, the coordination of the Government with the municipalities is something key and fundamental, and in that we have to work and also take advantage of all the time that the decree is processed, every month until the final approval, in order to have the relationship with the municipalities well fattened and to be able to ensure that, once the decree is finally approved, it can enter into force with all its effectiveness, because there is that previous fattening in the relationship with the municipalities. We are talking about very sensitive issues, from a social and also from a legal point of view, and we need to be right. And for that it is best to integrate are possible sensitivities to close a final text that is the most consensual and that allows it to begin processing before the end of this year. And, as I was saying, we want the actual effectiveness of the decree, once approved, to be immediate. In this sense, we want to work during this time to ensure this effectiveness which, although I would like, will hardly be able to complete the entire processing process until the second half of 2019. Because here the processing times are impervious, and they last as long as they last, the reports last as long as they last and cost as long as they cost. We will, in that sense too, as I said, work in a very direct relationship with the municipalities, we will establish instruments to support the municipalities that have the least means to be able to do the work entrusted to them by the law in the policy of uninhabited housing. We already have an experience with Eudel in that sense, in what is the implementation of the management of the ITE, which is a precedent that allows us also to work in this sense, and we will work in order to be able to form and inform, to smooth roughness and to look for the best ways in agreement with the municipalities in order to be able to work in this sense. Because, look, I've been mayor, you know, and besides, I always have the municipalist vein, right? In these matters, when the municipalities are entrusted with tasks and duties from this Parliament, it is good not to leave them alone, nor to burden them with responsibility and weight. The important thing is to do it in a coordinated manner; to seek complicity, complicity in the development of the law, which is a necessary complicity. But complicity is also the sharing of responsibilities, resources, and necessary support, because that is what will allow us to have the best guarantees that the law in terms of the management of uninhabited housing will have a guarantee of success in the future, right? We must also work on sensitivity and affection for local institutions, which are the first administration to be at the forefront of citizens. And I trust that this work will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u72	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief physician of Eplegu and Society, to ensure the revenues of the women who are in a state of social avarice and oppression." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. In September he published a new resolution addressed to the profession. This time, the profession has cut off four women's families, who are in a critical state, to secure incomes of money. Four women, great-grandmother, grandmother, mother and daughter; high vulnerability and contact with social services; single income, GIR. June 2016, this family of women realizes that they do not charge for the suspension of GIR, without prior notice. Imagine that they go for the salary and suddenly they don't have it, something with which they usually have the habit of paying housing, food, light, water. This is the first arbitrariness in this history and the first act of institutional abuse. But because it's so common it's naturalized. It's a clear abuse of power. Let's move on. September 2016. They receive one documentation requirement, eight documents for four people. Total, 32 documents. One of these women goes to Lanbide identified with her passport, because she had lost her ID. We all know that the passport is as valid a document as the DNI to identify itself, but Lanbide turns out that it is not worth it, and does not collect the documentation, because they tell him that he has to file the loss report or the DNI in order to do so. However, he had been able to request the rest of the documentation that he was going to deliver. The lady returns to Lanbide with the loss report and the documents she had to deliver, but again to Lanbide is not worth it and is not collected. They are not collected on this occasion because they do not present the passport. He returns home and for the third time returns to Lanbide with the complaint, passport and a copy of the DNI. We insisted, the DNI had lost it, with which it could not present it. But Lanbide again, and for the third time, does not collect the documentation. A public administration agency denies a citizen her right and obligation to provide documentation. Next abuse and situation, I insist, of institutional violence. The lady, we imagine that desperate, in this story that could be funny if not for the drama she hides, comes to her social worker, who intervenes asking for a new appointment with Lanbide. On this fourth occasion and finally, and only with the support of a third party, he was able to deliver the documentation. Between one thing and another, five months without income, because they were without a basic livelihood. At that time, Lanbide informed them in a letter that they would continue to be suspended for failing to submit within the prescribed time limit the documentation they had requested. Remember that the woman came to present the documentation on four occasions. Again, we imagine that desperate, they seek support and ask for emergency aid, but they refuse them for having GIR suspended. In March 2017, after four months since the appeal was lodged and nine months without charge, they were answered that no, which continue with the suspension. In April 2017, we assume that counseled again, put a complaint in the Ararteko. In December 2017 – eye!, a year and a half after they were cut off from the GIR – they are informed that they cannot resume it again and they will not be able to apply for it within a year. In September 2018, a few days, two years and two months after the start of this calvary, Ararteko resolves that the woman did not violate the law. It resolves that, moreover, the interpretation is extensive and prejudicial to the rights of the applicant and that it constitutes a breach of the principle of proportionality. Artolazabal anderea, how are you going to prevent this from happening again and how are you going to repair it, if this mess is repairable, these two years and at least three months without charging these four women? Honestly, with these patriarchal social policies you're putting women in a situation of social vulnerability at risk, and you're the last one responsible for this hunch. Now, please try to justify your role and Lanbide's role in all of this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Lanbide takes into account, Mrs Guanche, all the recommendations of the Ararteko to correct those dysfunctions detected, provided that they are within the limits of the current regulations. Of the 52 recommendations we received in 2017, 27 were accepted, 52%. 14 legal discrepancies were not accepted because there are different criteria between what the Ararteko does and what we do, and 11 require amendment of the law. What Lanbide does, as it cannot be in any other way, is to comply with existing regulations. It does so in the case that you have brought here today and it also does so in many other cases that you usually bring to this House. Today's case is a concrete one with a specific case and a particular development, and it is up to us to articulate measures and regulations that respond to the general population. As Mrs Guanche pointed out, if Ararteko's recommendation is within the limits of the existing legislation, we naturally take it into account and if the recommendation exceeds the limits, it is noted for possible future amendments to the legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u77	Mrs Artolazabal, 60% of Ararteko's recommendations are disregarded by your department. How are you going to fix this person? How are you going to stop this from happening again?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your time is up. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u79	Mrs Guanche, one thing is the complaints, the other is the recommendations. The recommendations are once there has been a job, there is a job – which I imagine you will know – between Lanbide and Ararteko, the legal services, with the aim of improving. We don't have a special effort to harm anyone. Simply what we do is to comply with the regulations, and when that regulation is not adequate or can be improved, what we do is, in those recommendations presented to us, incorporate all those that can be incorporated with the current law. In what is the recommendation of Ararteko – which today we find with the different versions, at least interpretations of the situation of the unit of coexistence – I would like to convey to you that the Ararteko interprets that this is a four-member unit composed of great-grandmother, grandmother, mother and daughter, as you have reported. The data in Lanbide's file show only that the members of the cohabitation unit in this case, in this file, are a mother and an older daughter. We therefore start from a conception, from the basis that the question is different from the fact that you brought us and from the data that we have in the dossier. The Ararteko recommendation determines that the fact is not to submit the DNI, which is the reason for the suspension. And in the file in Lanbide, it is clear that the applicant was required to submit the following documentation from the mother: the certified marital status, the certificate of property in the country of origin or of what they have requested pending its arrival, the certificate of contributory pensions and a long et cetera of certificates they had to submit. In response to this request, the appellant went to the meeting with Lanbide but did not provide any documentation, i.e. the person does have a number of rights but does not seem to have any obligation, does he? It can be assumed that the appellant has good will to go to the meeting, and I am saying that at the moment, but the fact that she does not provide any requested information does not exempt her from non-compliance with the rules in force. The Ararteko equates the willingness to attend the meeting with the obligation to provide the required documentation, and that we cannot share. That recommendation is therefore not in line with the current regulatory limit. What we have done and what we can make progress on is the definition of a new regulation containing an amendment to the sanctions regime, and that is what we are talking about, Mrs Guanche.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Basque Barrius Barroja Group, to the head of the Educational Department, the Gasteian Jose Uruñuela dance-conservatory in the course of the year 2018-2019 study of public education." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u81	Thank you, President, good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we are faced with an inquiry that demonstrates the timeliness of the interrogations in some cases. It is opportune because it seems that the mayor of Vitoria has just answered this question a few moments ago, that is that, in this sense, the councilwoman, in a second appearance, will be able to explain to us what this question demanded. Let's make a reminder. A year ago, this interpellation, in this same sense, about the integration of the conservatory of dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria in the Basque public education network. And we are indeed interested in the matter. It was an informational inquiry into the process. We did not move in the confidence that the final steps would be taken for this purpose. And, then, it had been almost a year and we presented this inquiry, which no longer wanted to be so informative as to demand and repeat. So, what were we talking about? Of what this Parliament already approved in 2014 in relation to which the Basque Government was urged to recognize the heritage of the professional career, already more than 30 years old, of the conservatory of dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria-Gasteiz, in order to consolidate a single project and guarantee its future. And at that time, 2014, urge the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, to agree with the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which is where the title of the municipal conservatory of dance resides, within one year – four years have passed – the integration of the municipal conservatory of dance José Uruñuela into the public network dependent on the Department of Education, at that time Politics, Linguistics and Culture, thus assuming its title and taking the necessary measures to do so. I say again, it's a good idea to present interpellations like this after the iter we've had. Our group also presented in these budgets an item in relation to the necessary steps for this integration of the municipal dance conservatory into the public education network under the Basque Government and, well, in that regard, it seems that some things the opposition sometimes does also well. I say again that Mayor Urtaran seems that right now, a few minutes ago, he has just responded to a part of what this initiative refers to regarding the integration of the municipal dance conservatory José Uruñuela de Vitoria and its integration into the public education network. Then I'll call the mayor to thank him for that answer too. But now we will be reminded by the Counsellor, now it is up to you here to give us an explanation of the process to be carried out, some of the details already known, in the coming months in relation to this integration. From what you tell us, too, we can see whether your efforts, or the efforts that you announce to us, can be pushed or complemented by a motion that may emerge from the debate on this question. I also remind you that you were talking about five objectives in the previous inquiry, which means that some steps will have been taken in those five objectives, in relation to that integration. And we also have to say that this conservatory, the dance conservatory, in relation to the elementary levels of dance, or the professional levels of dance, is unique in Euskadi, so it has a truly unique value. That's our question. I would like to remind you that the objectives to which you referred were objectives that have to do with discipline, the strengthening of dance. The first of them, contemporary, within the specialty of classical dance and in coherence and complementarity with the university training offer of Dantzerti. The second objective, the creation of optional subjects, would broaden the possibilities of choice and enrich qualifications and training. The third objective is also internal coherence in relation to the cycles of two courses, with appropriate hourly distribution. He also spoke in the fourth objective of an hourly adjustment, to rationalize what was then an excessive time load of the student. Indeed, something important to address. It also referred to the linguistic approach to the current situation. All this, in fact, led us to this inquiry, to what is the purpose of the Department of Education to address in this course 2018-2019 the integration process so that definitively the José Uruñuela dance conservatory is integrated into the Basque public network of teaching. I say again that something has agreed. Something in the City Hall they didn't know anything about. We have recently asked, but now it seems that you have agreed something with the City Council of Vitoria and Mr Urtaran, who will explain for sure in a few seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u83	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr Barrio, artistic teachings are a fundamental element of our educational policies for this administration. Throughout this parliamentary term, and throughout the previous parliamentary term, we have wanted to promote these teachings as a fundamental element in the educational offer for our students. In this sense, I think it is important to remember that, for example, Musikene has a new and modern headquarters, thanks to the impulse given also in previous legislatures, and that four years ago we launched Dantzerti, the Euskadi School of Dramatic Art and Dance. Our bet, therefore, is clear and defends itself with the facts. And precisely with the intention of further improving, updating the artistic teachings, since last year, from the Department of Education we have promoted a reflection on this educational future. As you know, artistic teachings encompass different modalities and contents, we talk about dance, but also about photography, design and music. And, in particular, as far as the historical territory of Araba is concerned, this reflection, the work done and the coordination between institutions are already bearing fruit. In fact, then, in another question that will be asked, I will refer to the agreement reached a few days ago to provide artistic content, and also linked to vocational training, to the former convent of Betoño. As I say, thanks to the work shared with other institutions, in this case with the Vital Foundation. You know that the Euskadi School of Design will be located on this new site – referring to artistic teachings. Therefore, another example of this work of reflection and action he commented on. And that is the line that we have taken and that we will follow, also in relation to the municipal conservatory of dance José Uruñuela. As you know, the Department of Education and the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz has been working for some time on the possibility of the Basque Government taking over the management of this conservatory. I know he would have liked that change to have already taken place, but he knows that such agreements require reflection and subsequent implementation, which is often not exempt from issues to be resolved. The intention of the Department of Education and the City Council is to sign an agreement enabling these dance teachings to be incorporated into ordinary education. We are moving forward and we intend to sign this agreement over the next few months. But for the moment it is difficult for me to make more concrete. An agreement like this has several differentiated components, and they all have to be resolved. We are talking about personnel issues, obviously also about curricular content, about the changes that may need to be made in the curriculum, and also about the spaces that will be available to boost these teachings and which will have to meet the technical requirements set out in the regulations of the Basque Government. Each of these points requires their work and analysis, and we have been at it for a while now. As I explained in this Chamber, the process of integration is not easy, and we've made a lot of meetings with the officials of the city dance at the Conservatory, as well as the best way to agree with the public network of the department. We must consider this complexity as an occasion, for there are no patterns that are recurring, so far as it is the only center that the professional dance offers, in our community. That's why we need to make sure the integration takes place. Although I know that we have dealt with this subject before, it seems to me important again to comment that the artistic teachings of regulated dances are taught at the elementary and professional level only in the municipal dance conservatory José Uruñuela de Vitoria-Gasteiz, teaching the higher degree at the School of Dramatic Art and Dance of Euskadi, Dantzerti. The José Uruñuela Centre provides the four basic dance courses and the six vocational courses. The student normally attends the four elementary courses when he or she is in the third, fourth, fifth and sixth primary education courses, and the six vocational courses coincide with the four ESO and the two baccalaureate courses, so that at the end of the vocational courses he or she can access the higher education courses, in our case Dantzerti. With the start-up in the course 2015-2016 of the School of Dramatic Art and Dance of Euskadi, Dantzerti, are offered, in addition to the specialty of interpretation of dramatic art, choreography and interpretation in dance. This being so, in the reflection carried out by the department, in which we seek a coherence of the offer of artistic teachings and greater visibility according to the commitment made by the department, it is desirable within the teaching offer in artistic teachings, in order to be able to make a complete offer and to ensure to the Basque student an educational trajectory, from the elementary teachings to the higher artistic teachings of dance, to incorporate the elementary and professional teachings that are only taught in the municipal conservatory of dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria-Gasteiz. With an integrative vision and according to the standard of reference, in order to maintain consistency and complementarity with the already established dance curriculum, the department's first analysis focused on analysing, designing and proposing the revision of the school curriculum. From an organizational point of view, the current curriculum should evolve towards an orientation that allows for an exit profile of students more in line with the higher artistic education curriculum established in Dantzerti. The main feature of the curriculum of this center is the configuration of integrated and multi-purpose teachings, where, within a single specialty, the classical and contemporary have almost the same qualitative and quantitative weight. This implies an increase in the formation of contemporary dance, thus ensuring a coherent training itinerary between professional and higher artistic dance teachings, without the need to replace the current specialty, which is classical dance, considered the best basic training necessary for the preparation of future dance professionals. In addition, the linguistic approach of the municipal dance conservatory José Uruñuela must advance towards a progressive expansion of the supply in Basque, and must respond to the demand for euskaldunization as a result of the progressive increase of the student who studies in Primary Education and Secondary Education in model D in its main area of geographical influence and with the linguistic approach of the higher studies. José Uruñuela, municipal dance-servatory, is to transfer to the network of the centers of the Education Department and enter it in two phases. On the one hand, between the Board of Education and the Council of Vitoria-Gasticei there must be a contract of cooperation. Every part of it is defined the duties which each part of the community may enter into a public network. And then, on the other hand, the order which the Board of Education resolves to enter the Conservation into the web of public centers must be issued by the decree to enter. These necessary parties must be summed up in the nature of the contract between the Gastine City and the Board of Education: First, because the Vitoria-Gascentian Council transfers its commitment to the Escinomian Esquiria Escinomia, Joseph Uruñau, municipal dance-conservatory, to enter the network of the public centres under the Institute of Education; then the order to transfer the transfer, under the control of public centres of the Board of Education, must be introduced in force. Besides, and what is very important, the City Council will have to take the municipal agreement which corresponds to the transfer of the legal jurisdiction of the Confederation. Euscal Autonomy Administration, also, will require an agreement of the Government Council to accept transfer. In this case, it is necessary to have a good and sufficient credit, in order to hand over the net of public schools, and to prevent the expense at the very moment of entering. When you get into it, the budget plan of the Board of Education will increase, and that's why the budget needs protection. Also, we need budget protection for the expenses of the contract made by the Gastine City for the functionation of the School. In fine, the change of the decree which approves the list of employments must be approved. As far as we can see, and as I have told you, the process is complex and long, and I think it has been important to mention the parties which must be taken notice of. After an provisional analysis of the propriety of education, language, and the propriety of teachers who now extend the center of the center, the Board of Education has worked at work in determining the legal process, and the phases which I have just mentioned to you, and which may be a sketched out of the contract of cooperation. After we've agreed with the City Hall, I hope we can begin our settlement in the last quarter of the year 2018. Therefore, in response to his question, it is the intention of the Department of Education to continue to take steps towards the effective integration of the José Uruñuela dance conservatory into the Basque public educational network, progressing in the processing of the corresponding aforementioned agreement, once agreed between the parties and authorized by their respective governing bodies. And, indeed, our hope is to carry out the transfer along the next course. As you see, this is also a result of inter-agency collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u85	Gracias, president. Thank you, counselor. It is a step forward in institutional collaboration and also a result of the perseverance of the opposition and of the groups that we have long thought about this need for integration, to demand it and to bring it to this House and to propose it, in a compromise that must have been made before and that at this time, through this demand, we have seen that it will materialize. Because, of course, there are some questions that should be put on the table in relation to how it is going to develop, because we have already seen that, in fact, Mr Urtaran's appearance and his own in this first intervention remain fringes, things remain. We still have a working hypothesis, a previous approach, an introduction to work, in the same way that this Parliament demanded in its day in relation to dealing with this process of integration into the public network, and what is left now is the assumption of that commitment but not concrete, because you have said that setting dates now is complicated or it is complicated to concreteize more. It can't be complicated to make it any more concrete. If you, the two institutions called to the meeting, the City of Vitoria and the Basque Government, have already decided to approach this process that we have demanded of you, because it is necessary to address concreteness, at least approximately. That is, Madam Counsellor, three questions in relation to the implementation of this process. Is it going to be the signing of the agreement before the end of the year? It's important to know. Is it going to be before the end of the year? If you have discussed these issues with the City Council of Vitoria, the department or the mayor, you will know if you will be willing to sign this agreement before the end of the year. Secondly, when will the date of integration be after the signing of that convention? They will also have to have an approximate date of when the conservatory of dance José Uruñuela is going to move definitively from the municipal title to the title of the Basque Government. And that also has to be foreseen, and that is what we also want to point out in this initiative. And finally, after the date of the agreement, after knowing the date of the integration, will there be included in the budgets of 2019 items destined for the integration of the conservatory of dance José Uruñuela de Vitoria-Gasteiz in the network? Is there going to be in these budgets? That is to say, three very clear questions to what you have said, which is that they are already working on that possibility, on that commitment and on that process. That is to say, three questions for you to tell us, in fact, that this is true and that before December or before 31 December the agreement for the next 2019-2020 course will be signed, there will be integration and, of course, in that sense, there will be a start in the budgets. I don't know what you will answer, but in any case, I am going to help you by submitting a motion, which we will approve securely among all, so that next year's integration will be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u87	Mr. Barrio. As I moved you in my first speech, the integration process is not a simple process, and we have a draft convention, in which we are working, to share and agree with the City Council, the current head of the centre and, as I said in my first speech, our intention is that before the last quarter of this year it will be signed. The second phase should not be forgotten: The integration of the dance conservatory into the network of public centres of the Department of Education must be approved by decree, the decree of integration, with its consequent processing. Based on the analysis of the present state of the Centre's resources, and the educational planning, the editor of the department and Plant, is already on the ground of regulations when the agreement is begun to advance and to reduce them in parallel with this camp. The Decree will have to receive the following points already identified: Conservation of the Conservation into the Public School, entering teachers, entering workers that are not teachers, and subrogating the townships into contracts made for the function of the School. Besides, there will require a few reports in the treatment of a decree, and I shall not begin with the whole list, because I do not believe this place to be the right place. He's preparing the list of jobs and the human resources that are for the purpose of setting up human resources and adapting them to the needs of the centre, with respect to education and specialities, to get into public nets. As you can see, we are very interested in offering the best public project of professional studies to all of the Basques, to continue their steps in every necessary way, by organized integration, and by guarantees of the dance story of José Uruñuela. I can assure you, Mr. Barrio, that your desire and ours are the same. Please note that, as I mentioned a moment ago, Bilbao hosts the headquarters of the School of Dance, Dantzerti, and therefore, from an educational architecture point of view, it is logical to have a previous step. In this way, the Department of Education will manage the entire dance route, with the possibilities of coordination and mutual impulse that these centres can give each other. For this, of course, our intention is to take advantage of all the experience accumulated in all these years by José Uruñuela. It is a value in itself that we want to take advantage of from the Department of Education. I repeat that it is not easy to determine how long we will need to carry out the change, but my intention is that the Department of Education can take over the management of José Uruñuela during the next school year. I repeat that this transit requires important work, but it is also true that in recent months we have made progress on technical issues. I hope that this change can take place during the next 2019-2020 course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrius Barroja Popula Group had been made to the head of the Board of Education on the campus of the UUPV/EHU Faculta, and a banner of homage." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u89	Thank you, President. Hello again, Counselor, Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in front of the placement of a banner in tribute to the terrorist band ETA on the week of September 24, if I don't miss the dates, in the faculty of communication of the UPV, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, in Leioa, in which the aesthetic terminology of the band was used. Well, I don't have the ability of other parliamentarians to take pictures and put it that way. But, well, everyone will have seen the images in the media. I say again, terminology and aesthetics of the band, and before the immediate withdrawal of the same banner with the anagram of a terrorist gang, such as ETA, by the university authorities, I would like the education counselor of the Basque Government to answer the following question. It seems that we are in bad days for the values of coexistence and education. I'd like this to be an exception. What is the reason why the plaque of memory and homage to ETA was not immediately removed from the university offices in Leioa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u91	Andrea president, Barrio jauna. In this chamber, as we have said in other cases, I want to remind you about the university, and, properly speaking as regards the UPV-EHU, that he has the autonomy to act, and that this is limited by an administration, and, more accurately, the capacity for making precise fun of the Eucommy. In his state, as is properly received in the first article, the Basque Country University is the institution of public law, which is in the service of society. He is a autonomy organization with legal personality and powers. Thus, based on the society of the university, based on its high authority and respect for its autonomy, and also on the respect of these members of the legislature, I have asked the superior director of the Basque Country University to give us information about the question of your question. And then I'll give you the details about the information. According to information from UUPV-EHU, in thepus of Lemium, a banner appeared from the main railing of the court of Science and Communications on the 27th of September which has been hung. There was the following sentence in the panic: "We must all give up a few things so they mustn't give away everything." And down below he had several symbols. The UPV-EHU authorities of the Leioa campus have transferred to the Department of Education of the Basque Government, which has a protocol for action which determines when to remove banners, messages or paintings from the university facilities. According to this protocol, if the messages of these media are coercive or threatening to any person or collective, or if they contain logos of illegal entities, these media are withdrawn immediately. In the rest of the cases, the supports are withdrawn on a regular basis, particularly on Friday afternoons. The UPV-EHU, in application of this protocol, considering these two situations, after analyzing the message and the symbols of the banner, framed it in the second category, taking the decision to proceed to the removal of that banner on Friday, September 28, 2018, which was not necessary, since it was removed on the same day 27, not being deployed more than an hour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u93	Counselor, it was longer. So do a little better research, please. It was longer than you told us, and it was an act of ETA exaltation. I ask you to transfer it from us to the Rector or Dean, or to the decanate or to the person who is responsible, which is regrettable the attitude of the University of the Basque Country in this regard and the explanations given in relation to the immediate non-removal. It's unfortunate. This second protocol is not part of the first protocol, because it is not understood that it attacked a banner with the anagram of ETA to others. In other words, that has to be part of a second protocol where incorrect expressions or some question can be analyzed. This is not an attack on the university community and society, that is the fundamental element. Look, in fact, we ask you to transfer this discomfort to the university, that displeasure, that qualification of regret that we make of the attitude of the University of the Basque Country with the explanations given. It is very serious that on the part of the University of the Basque Country and its directors, its directors or its deans or the people who manage it are undervalued these hostile attitudes that represent the ETA banners or other acts that have been made in the university sphere in relation to certain prisoners or certain terrorists, tributes that we have all seen in recent months. And we demand that in addition to this information you have collected, there is an in-depth investigation. That is, that unfortunate explanation that a second protocol is applied because first there are important things and then there is a second protocol to develop other less important things in relation to an attack and aggression of these characteristics on the university community, is something that you must demand immediately. We also demand to know who placed that banner, because also the research that the university has to do, and that we understand that you can handle it, you have to know, I don't know if through the Department of Security or who it has to be. You have to tell us who put that banner there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u95	Mr Barrio, as we have before this House on other occasions, the last one recently last June in response to a question raised by you, the position of our Government is clear and of condemnation and rejection of any act of legitimization or exaltation of terrorism and of any act that does not respect the ethical ground and can hurt the sensitivity of the victims by causing added suffering. In any case, the act to which you referred, and always according to what was transmitted by the university itself, was a meeting of a group of people, not knowing the reason for it, which was held with absolute normality in a space of common use and public access within the teaching hours, so no reservation of it must be made. Access is not restricted and the security service acts only in the event of a risk to the integrity of the persons or goods protected. This is the information that has been transferred to us by the university's governing body.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH, made to the head physician of the Board of Education, for the use of the convent of Carmelan Footsels in Betoñu." Miss Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u97	Yes, good afternoon to all, and thank you very much, ma'am. Two weeks ago the doors of the convent of Carmelefoot in Betñu had been opened. After eleven years of emptiness the doors of the Krea building were opened. A fine building, bought by the council, and left for general interest, with plenty of opportunities to set a strong project in motion. From January to January, Krea will be the residence of a high-class design school in Euskata, and also of Technic, as Mme. Uriart, the head physician of Education predicted. Two weeks ago, a public use of the building was finally raised, which was reflected in the original exchange. I guess the counselor is familiar with Mayor Maroto's first attempts and after Urtaran's private benefit. We have the judgment of July 26, 2018, which was the third time that a court gave the reason to Euskal Herria Bildu in the defense of the common and the public. This last sentence reaffirmed, as in the previous ones, that in the modification of the exchange of Maroto in 2014 and that of Urtaran in 2016, there was no response to a need to attend to the general interest, and says textually: "The purpose of the change of the exchange, that which we have managed to cancel, is nothing other than to assist in the financing of the co-ordered – the bank foundation – by authorizing the partial and/or total disposal of the property, which means departing from the general purpose and seeking a different and particular purpose". Once the public control of the building and therefore the obligation to respect the conditions of the original exchange have been restored, we want to be collaborators in addition to ensuring that the use and management of the building responds to this general interest. Therefore, we want to know the management intentions of the same. In the example of management, the defence of the public, the combination of the institutions, and all that, whether you plan in your department and how you do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u98	Thank you, ma'am. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u99	Mahaiburu's walking. Mrs. problemon, on the 4th of October, the Vital Foundations and the Education Department of the Basque Branch agreed to begin a new use in the convent at Betñu. In this sense, after a trial of examination and analysis, two institutions have agreed to establish terms of use, to make the building use of the Eucommy for educational purposes. It is the will of both parties that the convents of Betoñu, which depends on the Board of Education, should take the residence of a high-level design school, and the establishment of the Euscalic Autonomy, which is applied to the education of the profession of Knika, and which is the centre of the Elegan Institute. The technique will open up the project that has been developed so far, answering the new sectors. In fact, he'll work in the midst of the creative industry. In answer to your question, these projects are the result of the firm wager of a social education by which it has been won in the convent of Betou by art teaching and creative art. All that, all that, to develop a new project, an attractive, functional space. At the same time this agreement will be of service to the people for the benefit of the name of Vitoria, and for the service which he offers to the peoples. The Board of Education, by which we improve the positions we employ for teaching, is that we look at the quality of intention, and are involved in public service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u101	Thank you. Whether we knew him or at least it is known to be the top-level Euskata design school and Technith. That's where we started, or that's where we started. That sounds really good, but we asked about the management model. Because we were telling you, Madam Counsellor, that we wanted to work together on this path because, of course, until now, we had to bring the courts to an institution because it did not defend the general interest, with sentences that confirmed it, with mayors also from different parties, the PP and the PNV, it is not good for trust in the institutions and precisely because there was a perversion in the interpretation of what can be public-private cooperation, that of giving the public to the private, and that is what we are worried about and that is what we were asking about. We are concerned about the terms in which the rental or maintenance of buildings has been agreed. He knows that the acquisition of the building was from the city hall and the terms of the assignment are also very clear. It is not for a bank to play, but it was precisely to carry out certain tasks for the common interest. But because we are very concerned about this background, we believe it is very important to clarify it. Several times the courts have already ruled against any substantial alteration of the initial spirit of the contract, and of course my group will remain in the defense of the common, but let us hope that you will also align in the same. Therefore, what we want is to know the conditions of the management of the same, how the approach of cooperation between the different institutions will be articulated, if they are posing a patronage, how, what model of management will be. You have given similar data in the sense of the previous question regarding the Uruñuela dance conservatory, they had it very advanced, and in the same sense we ask you the question of the management model. We want to know what the deal's like. We understand that, moreover, the references made to economic returns from the rental or sale of the property already know that they are included in the judgment that went against the changes of the exchange. The legislation also confirms that there can be no loss of control over the municipal heritage and, precisely, we want to know what management model your department proposes to develop the projects that we think are appropriate, because they finally respond to the public interest, but we ask you about the management model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u102	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u103	Mrs. problemon, as I have said, is to answer to this wager, that this series has a right to the advantage of public education; and to this end art, innovation, and inquiry are to be encouraged in the fields of creation, and likewise to excite activity and creative activity. From January, 2019, the convent of Betoñu will receive the residence of the ID Arts, and the increase of the Turkica after the treaty has been signed. In the same space there are established fields which bring unions and new cooperation. As for ID, it is the only high-level design class that provides high-level studies of Eukadin and graphic design and internal design, as well as photography and photography cycles of upper-class professions. It is the laboratory where the creative minds needed by today's society are incubated to provide solutions in all sectors and areas to contemporary needs and imminent challenges. Design is a key factor in improving a country's economic competitiveness, because of its implications for business strategies, in terms of product quality and branding, with a view to promoting competition for its production in both domestic and international markets. In its new facilities, Tknika will expand the projects it has developed so far, responding to new sectors of the field of creative industries and its work will be coordinated with the work that has been carried out for years by the headquarters of Tknika, located in Rentería. The new spaces will be dedicated to the creation, co-creation, encounter, experimentation, development of projects, both entrepreneurship and intra-entrepreneurship within the sector. As you can see, the purpose of the agreement obtained with the Vital Foundation is to put a modern and inic structure to the service of society through education system and instruction to students. The agreement is not signed yet. So I can't forward much more about management. I think it'll be a loan, but later on, when the deal is signed, I'll tell you. A model of co-workers amongst the institutions which the public Arlus promotes, which will doubtless be beneficial to the name of Vitoria-Gaste, for the services which he offers to his citizens, and for the founders of industry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Juan Urano Serano, a member of the Society of Podemos, made to the head of the Medical Department, the questions of the examinations of EPEn's specialists, which have just been made in nineteen specialities, direct and evidenceed by the chiefs of services, intermediate or temporary contracts, prevention, concerning removing them from the offices of their service."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u105	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, Sailburuak, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. It is a simple question, because in this complex matter of fraudulent OPEs nothing seems to have been touched in hospitals, it does not seem that no head of service has ceased, and that is the question. I wanted to take this aspect which, in the various appearances you have made, Mr Councillor, and in the polemics, some complex and difficult ones in which you have participated together with our political groups, because they have not touched on this subject. And, of course, they were the ones that caused the problem. Why doesn't any head of service who is clearly suspected of having been involved in the fraud of the examinations cease?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Uria. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u107	Mrs. President, Congressmen, good noon. Uria jauna, has asked a simple question; brief, not so much. With regard to the current OPE, both the Department of Health and Osakidetza have acted at all times with transparency, diligence and prudence, investigating and acting in proportion to the facts verified, respecting the principle of innocence and fulfilling all the commitments made to this House. The results of each of the 86 categories have been analysed; eight information files and seven disciplinary files have been opened, which have not been completed; the follow-up committee, the parliamentary groups, the Ararteko have been informed on time; and the willingness to cooperate with the Office of the Prosecutor has been shown at all times on a continuous and maximum basis. You who are a public official surely know why we have not yet done what you have asked us: because you cannot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u109	Dear Mrs. Tejeria. Counselor, thank you for the answer. We already knew what he said. The problem is that what caused the whole conflict where all the unions, all the political groups, you and your entire team, the general management of Osakidetza have gotten involved, is that a few service chiefs leaked the exams, or there are well-founded suspicions that they did. That's what's put us all in the garage. That has called into question his own authority. Because they didn't listen to you, because you and Maria Jesus Múgica said, "We have a difficult OPE, 3,325 places, let there be no trouble," you said. "We want nothing to happen," you said. And there were a few service chiefs who didn't do what they were going to do because you said not to do that. But there were a few others, the old-fashioned ones, who did. And we know who they are, you know it, because I know it and you know it. Some heads of service passed the examinations to doctors who worked on temporary contracts in their respective services in order to ensure that they were able to make sure that the places provided were fixed. This is the origin! And you know it. No chief of service has noticed the counselor's breath on his neck, none. "Hey, hey, this one, Uria, it takes tests to make decisions of such magnitude. It is that opinions do not make decisions, they are not governed by opinions. It is necessary to prove the facts." I'm not imposing sanctions on the chiefs of services, nor going to prison, nor any compensation. I'm not asking you that, but the D.A.'s gonna give you your opinion on the matter. We're all gonna wait and we're all gonna wait. We are talking that an organization like Osakidetza cannot afford such a policy, it is the best of the 17 autonomous communities. "There's nothing wrong here" can't be. The minimum is to cease those who have participated directly in the frauds. The basic thing is to strengthen Osakidetza's prestige and the basic thing is people who have not been loyal, who are true godparents in hospitals, who do not shake their wrists to ignore him, who are fraudulent and who have gotten you into this mess. Well, let them know that they have nothing to do in Osakidetza, that's over. It must cease them for the prestige of Osakidetza and to regain the confidence of the people, who do not believe what is happening. It's your chance to rectify. You have, you know, Decree 100/2018, Article 30, 31, 34, 35, transitional provisions, talking about heads of service, talking about evaluation, talking about the need to review your job. Osakidetza's Board of Directors can do it perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u110	Thank you, Mr. Uria, your time is over. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u111	Mr. Uria, we've taken all the responsibility we've got from the Medical Department and Osarics to address and organize this EPE on us. You know very well that in this responsibility, new measures have been taken to make EPE fit in with every guarantee. You know, too, that we've played our part with transparency and severity, at all times, both with respect to the law, to the prosecutor and to the prosecutor, and you ought to know better than anyone else that our object is to get out of this public offer of Osacism. Mr. Uria, you have to discuss a little bit more in your group, if I have to stop, if you have to stop, I don't know how many heads of service, or if you have to change your speech. Look, we have assumed our responsibility to clarify what has happened, to end the OPE with guarantees and, in parallel, to improve the model of selection and provision of professionals in Osakidetza. You have asked here, and I will speak to you textually, because it is also in the justification of the question, "the preventive cessation of heads of service who have intervened directly in the filtering of exam questions." The preventive cessation. Missed you include sweet death. I take it, before your statements, that you have condemned the members of 19 courts, heads of service or deputies; 19 for 12 members each court, six alternates and six holders, and I understand that you have gone to the Prosecutor's Office with the names of the professionals and the evidence of the crimes committed, because otherwise, your statements in this rostrum are totally unacceptable and unethical this morning. We act with rigour, objectivity and prudence. We respect the professionals, Mr. Uria. We respect the professionals. We respect the presumption of innocence of vowels and opponents and, above all, we have confidence in the workers of Osakidetza, whether bosses or not. Our main asset. I deeply regret that you, who have participated in other OPEs as presiding judge, from your experience, are allowed to make such unsubstantiated accusations. Believe me, I wouldn't dare. For our part, I guarantee you that Osakidetza will continue to put all the means in place to end this OPE with guarantees, which is our priority goal at this time, respecting the rights of all people, and working on new measures to better guarantee transparency and equal opportunities in future OPEs. Eskerrik asko. It's our commitment, it's our obligation and that's what we're going to do, Mr. Uria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, M. del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muninka, a member of the Popula team, made for Turism, commerce, and the chief physician of Contsumon, to promote Euskuda by a publishing book. 23000." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, 23,000 brochures in English to promote Euskadi in different tourist offices that have had to be withdrawn. It appears that 5,000 had already been distributed in offices and 18,000 were stored. Retired, because they put Euskadi in Cuenca. An error in the back cover of the brochure, in which two maps appear, one above which corresponds to the Basque Autonomous Community and the other below which intends to locate us in Europe, but the reference point in red in Spain places us in Cuenca. Mr. Counsellor, what is your assessment of this situation and these facts?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u114	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u115	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs López de Ocariz, in fact, the brochure she refers to is a folding brochure, which includes a road map of the Autonomous Community, which has been published in its current format since 2014 and is made in six different language versions: in Spanish, in Basque, in English, in French, in German and in Italian. In particular, the error occurs in the back cover of the English version, in the March edition of this year. This is a draw with an updated design that incorporates the logo of the touring product The first publication with that updated design was the Spanish version, which was made last November, and there is no error in the back cover, and in March this year both the English, French and German versions were edited, and the latter two do not show the mentioned compositional error either. When we knew the incidence, we first contacted the central publication service, which had already blocked the distribution of brochures and which, in fact, informed us that of the total circulation, 5,300 had been distributed by request and 17,700 copies remained in the warehouses. Secondly, we contacted the distribution points, basically tourist offices, where the brochure had arrived with the error to proceed with its withdrawal. And thirdly, we carried out a verification of the internal process followed for the redesign of the brochure, in case the error was there. It is also a documented process through e-mail between a Basquetour technician and a Victorian graphic design company. Well, analyzed this process, in November 2017 the final approval is given to the company's proposal, which we have checked in the document sent by e-mail that was correct in all its idiomatic versions. From there, the company sends what is known as final arts for editing and printing to publications. It is clear that in the printing work there was a composition problem, it does not refer as much to the pointer as the map – if you compare the different versions you see – was increased, a zoom was made, and that is what the pointer displaces. Anyone who knows the layered printing or the layered graphic design understands where the error comes from. In any case, it is an error that is alien to our intervention. I also understand that in the printing works these things happen sometimes, the goblins of the printing press, is a usual impression, in the vocabulary of the guild but, of course, my assessment cannot be positive of the error itself. But it is true, too, that considering the volume of printing work that we generate in the tourism promotion activity from the department, we are reasonably satisfied with the overall balance of these years. Please note that over the past five years there are more than four million copies of different tourist promotion brochures, whose reduction is for us the important objective in the management of the department, betting as you know for digital marketing and for reducing the amount of paper, because that is also sustainability in tourism management. And, in fact, I can tell you that in the two years of this legislature production has fallen significantly to 559,000 booklets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u116	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u117	Indeed, the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government can be blamed for what some readers wrote in the comments of the digital newspapers. This is how the Basque Government promotes Basque companies, printing with companies in Granada, which neither quote here nor generate employment here, they are filled with their mouths by doing politics here and then hiring and buying out. But, Mr. Counsellor, you recognized the mistake but insisted that it is not the Tourism Council's fault. You point out that it is the publication service that is in charge of printing and that it is under the responsibility of the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government where the error occurs. Mr Councilman, from the People's Group we understand that the mistake of printing is not made by you, but the responsibility to monitor the material that will be distributed, which projects the image of Euskadi in the world, is exclusively yours, it is your responsibility, you have the departure for this concept, you are responsible for it to be executed, and you are not worth balls outside. From the People's Group we describe as childish the statement that his department made public rejecting his responsibility for the error, blaming the publication service. Counselor, the "I have not been, it has been fulanito", is from school yard, it seems that you are distracted or occupied in other menesteres that are not the proper ones of the management of a council. His cabinet seems rather like a launch platform to jump into the municipal arena. Almost everyone wants to be mayors. It would be good if they made a decision as soon as possible and whoever bears the responsibility to lead the council and to be part of their cabinet would do so at 100%. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u119	Mrs López de Ocariz, the error is not in publications. I told him that the problem is in the composition and I told him about the press leprechauns, that's what happens. And finally, we have been offered, to solve the problem, a procedure based on a system of free stickers for the department and also reducing the environmental costs that would entail the complete withdrawal of the circulation and its reprint. And we are satisfied with that. If you want from a graphic error to raise other questions here, it is your account. I'm accounting for management here as long as I'm an advisor to the department I run. And we made sure – and that's what we checked – that the brochures were actually fine.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors to the Chief of Security, intent on explaining the concerns of the Operal, which had been committed to the murder of Madibacas." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. In consequence of the opera factor in which you were murdered, the political, the discipline, the Penitentiary, the Penitentiary, the Penal, the Penalty. Some of the penal concerns are in the phase of the public trial and we'll see what lights up in it. There are contradictory and contradictory statements about the defendants and the witnesses being present, but in any case let's see what this criminal judgment seems. I'd like to ask you, Lady Beltán de Heedia, what you've done, what you've done, to give truth and justice to the Cabacas family. In two ways: what you did before the trial in this phase of inquiry, what you did to explain the facts, and what you hoped to do after the trial to receive discipline and politicians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u123	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Azuga, as you know, begins my responsibility at the end of December 2012 at the Basque Security Department. It was eight months before Zancas Liceranzu, the hospital in the Basur. He hit the rubber balls of a border on his head and died four days later. On the other hand, the judicial inquiry to explain his death was two days later started. Nothing less, therefore, than eight months before the Council took on the responsibility for directing the Department of Security for the first time, with a criminal proceeding already under way, with an investigation that was exclusively the responsibility of the judicial authority. As you know perfectly well – we have already mentioned it on other occasions, I explained it myself – the Basque Police Act does not allow an internal investigation to be carried out as a court proceeding is under way. Now, as the oral trial is taking place these weeks, with witnesses and defendants testifying in court, it is also not appropriate to make assessments of the judicial investigation. It is not, above all, due to respect for judicial autonomy and judicial independence and, therefore, I believe that we should avoid from this stand, from this Parliament, interfering in the judicial process, in this oral trial whose objective is to determine what happened that night in the alley of Maria Díaz de Haro and to know who was the material perpetrator of the shooting that caused the death of Iñigo Cabacas and to know under what circumstances these events occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u125	Indeed, Beltran of Heredia. He comes to the department eight months after the events took place and I will also tell him what he told me in the first conversation I had with you in this Parliament, in the Committee on Security, when I asked him precisely about the Cabacas case. Transcript of the Security Commission of 4 February 2013: "I have just arrived at this department and I have just come to this responsibility. I will not assume the political responsibilities that others or others could have with regard to any action; I politically respond to my actions." "I'm not going to assume political responsibilities," that's exactly what you said, and time has passed and it turns out that those others are now your government partners. And time has passed, and if anything is being verified, it is precisely that you have not taken on any political or other responsibilities at this time. I don't ask you to interfere in justice, I ask you to know what you've done before the public trial opens. His department was involved in the investigation of the Cabacas case and I want to know whether the attitude he has maintained at that time has been to defend the insurgents involved or to defend the interests of justice and truth of the Cabacas family. Did they seek to expand the charges or avoid them? Did you seek to offer data that you might have or hide? Did they seek to clarify the dark terms or cover them more and embarrass them? Now they're no longer in character, they're out of court, but yet their lawyers are still in the courtroom. And I would like to know what they are doing there, whether they are assisting and advising the defendants or the witnesses of the Ertzaintza or watching over the truth and justice interests of the Cabacas family. Whether they are working for the clarification of the facts or for the cover-up. And it's about this about what I'm asking you for an assessment. And you're telling me, "I'm not going to take on the political responsibilities." He told me in 2013 and it seems that's what he repeats to me today. I left on this stand 22 questions that should be answered about the Cabacas case. Some may now respond to the trial being held, but others will still have to be answered. For those who wrongfully abused their hands have a care, because they have an interest in those who have misinterpreted their commands, because they have a care for those who have wronged them from the police station. Those who planned the opera badly, the Jorge Partic, which is impalpable, because it has some concern, and who wrote the protocols and instructions, because they have a responsibility. As I said, Cabacas is the bordering pattern fracas. You don't have to do anything about this as your fracashead. A big hug, Fina and Manuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u127	Mr Arzuaga, I assure you that from the area of responsibility that I represent, we have provided everything that has been requested by the judge as the investigation progressed. Both from the department, from the Ertzaintza, and from the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, we have contributed with everything we have been asked to do. I remind you that the department made available from the very first moment, both to the judge and to the Public Prosecutor's Office, five inertzainas at your disposal as judicial police to assist in the investigation. We have provided recordings, information, images of the place, documents, reports, instructions, police procedures, training aspects... We have contributed with everything, however, I insist, what the judge has considered necessary and with everything that the Provincial Court has considered appropriate to request, in order to complete precisely what constitutes the basis of this oral trial today. And in this I attribute no merit, no merit of my own, Mr Arzuaga. The department has complied with its obligation, following step by step and scrupulously the procedures established in the process. We have fulfilled our obligation to help clarify what happened that night, in order to make it easier for us to know the truth of what happened, of the circumstances that happened in that alley, as I said earlier, the circumstances that resulted from the events that caused the death of Iñigo Cabacas Liceranzu. So, the answer that I was doing, have you done everything you could? We have done everything we have been asked to do from who directed the investigation and at the time he requested it. Therefore, we have done everything the investigation has requested to clarify the fact, the case of the death of Iñigo Cabacas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u128	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the Chief of Work and Justice, the Public Service of Justice," "Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio Euscalia Group." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u129	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs San José, in June she was asked in this very House about the restorative justice service, as is now called the interjudgmental mediation service. Not for nothing, but because we had learned that the prosecutor's office of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country was investigating that award, because that file in the opinion of the opposition groups did not smell well. You told us that we could be calm and, with respect to the workers, you told us that you had opened a line of negotiation with the new contractor to keep them in their jobs. That's what's perplexing me. I do not understand, if there is a contest that is public, if there is a company that is the successful bidder and there are conditions that are in the contract, what do you offer in that negotiation? What margin do you have? What offered the company to continue working these professionals? Professionals from whom, on the other hand, you and the former officials of the Department of Justice have always drawn their breasts, praised their work, talked about their great professionalism, set them as an example and as a model, they have been rewarded in many places. And the last prize you gave him. At the end of August the change of company took place and more than half of the staff went to the street, and the remaining ones, above them, were not the mediators, they were the administrative staff. Mrs San José, I would like to know what your assessment of this situation is. And given the success of their negotiation, what solution does it propose to these workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, good noon to all. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the management carried out to establish, replace the restorative justice service has been carried out in a natural, orderly manner and carried out by qualified professionals. On 28 August, the service was established in the three Basque capitals. The relevant service contract had been signed the previous day between the Department of Labour and Justice and the IRSE-Euskadi entity, which had been awarded the contract for the creation of this new service. I have to make it clear that the contract could be signed after the administrative body for contractual remedies of the Basque Autonomous Community, in its decision of 20 August, rejected the appeal lodged by Adosten against the award of the contract and lifted the automatic suspension of the procedure. As I have repeated in this rostrum repeatedly, this service was to replace the intra-judicial mediation, which has been provided by the Basque Government since 2007, and I have also set out in this rostrum the reasons for that decision. The transition from one service to another was made without major incidents, except for those arising from the transmission of files by the previous intra-judicial mediation service. Only in the case of the service that is provided in the Palace of Justice of Vitoria were facts of another nature occurred. On 28 August, the officials of the contracting entity IRSE-Euskadi entered the seat of the service and were received with obvious signs of tension by one of the employees of the former contracting authority. These people refuse to leave the posts and, in order to avoid a more tense situation, those responsible for IRSE leave the place. Finally, around 2 p.m., the people of the previous awardee drop their attitude, leave and hand over the keys and identification cards. On 29 August, the head of IRSE-Euskadi went back to the units authorized for the service without incident. From that point on, the new restorative justice service is launched in the three territories, following the work plan formulated, which includes coordination of teams, attention in judicial parties and an intervention programme, which will be revised and supplemented by the protocol drawn up and pending dissemination among all legal operators.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u132	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u133	You've got to have courage, ma'am. To say that the transition has been carried out in a natural and orderly way... and sets me the example of Vitoria. The workers of the intrajudicial mediation service were evicted by the Ertzaintza. Is that natural and orderly for you, Counselor? That when the workers ask someone from the Department of Justice to come to the service to give the explanations, to see how the files are left, how the computers are, how all the material is, from the department you run it is said that no one is going to go and they send agents from the Ertzaintza to evict them... Does a normal, natural transition end with the workers in the Guardy Court at the Palace of Justice depositing keys and work cards because no one receives them? Does that seem normal and natural to you? And that every two days they receive a bureaufax from a manager of an official of their department, accusing them of stealing material and threatening them with legal action if they do not file their attitude. Does that seem natural to you, normal, the usual? Mrs. San José, really, I think we have very different concepts. Precisely these workers of the service of the Palace of Justice of Vitoria did double, they obtained twice as many agreements as those of Bizkaia, four times more than those of Gipuzkoa. And you say you don't give the profile, that you're not good and you have to go out on the street. And not only does he not give anyone from his apartment his face and presents himself there, but they send the Ertzaintza to evict them. And they also accuse them of taking material and threatening to go to court. It seems to me, Mrs San José, that the explanations of this normal and natural course of action of your department will have to be given apart from in this rostrum, somewhere else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u135	Surely, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the new restorative justice service is working properly. In addition, they are giving way to the files of the previous service and we also have to attend to the new contents of that service that includes conferences and circles. And to meet these new content, it is necessary to have adequate staff and the appropriate skills and qualifications to be able to provide this service. And I assure you that the staff we have and the staff who have stayed from the previous service responds to those needs. So I think that, of course, we are meeting the needs that this new service of restorative justice requires. So, I've already explained that we're not in the previous intrajudicial mediation service, we're in the new restorative justice service. With this, the contents of this new service, the requirements, do not meet all the staff that previously worked.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-19.u136	Thank you, chief physician, time is up. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the gathering. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine.
