ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "The drawings of the 4th Presumption of the whole of October, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule, concerning the election introduced by the members of Jule Bollain Ubieta together by the law of Podemos." We'll assemble EH and vote together for the middle-term correction agreed on by the Podemus team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u1	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. First point in theme list: "To discuss the first question as EH Collector and together the proposition as the Parliamentary Podemos made, concerning the great situation of La Naval. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos team, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The object of the non-emergency law proposal that we bring today to the plenary of the group of EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos aimed to seek an institutional agreement, a broad consensus agreement on the need to intervene in the rescue of La Naval. This institutional agreement, which we have achieved through a compromise between all groups, was a feasible and desirable and necessary agreement. However, after yesterday's events, our group has to say that it is insufficient. It was necessary to establish among all groups the need to set up a table to study alternatives to continuity. A report was needed to support the entry of public capital into La Naval, it was necessary to ask the Ministry of Industry to cooperate with the Basque Government in this rescue. This was considered by our group, which, however, believed that this was a minimum agreement, and we continue to believe it. But to this day, after the company has submitted an ERE of extinction, after the Basque Government itself has recognized that there is no investor willing to acquire La Naval, the raw reality, the raw reality that has been defending our group for a year, is imposed: that the unilateral public rescue of La Naval by the Basque Government is necessary. The public ransom is the only way out. The only way out, because there's no private investor, there's no way out of it because there's no money to pay for. And last Friday we said that time was running out and today we say time has run out. And each one will have to consider what his role was, his attitude in this matter. The position of our group on this whole issue has been clear for more than a year. We have been responsible and consistent. We have been responsible to the extent that, even in an insufficient agreement like today, we will not deny our signature, because it is necessary to demonstrate an institutional, collective and unequivocal commitment to La Naval. But we have also been consistent. We've been consistent from the beginning. Coherent in calling for public rescue, redevelopment, public participation of the Government in La Naval. And this is the key, this is the key. And in the face of a responsible and coherent position of our group, I cannot fail to speak today about the position of the Basque Government. And I will necessarily have to be critical, because this position of the Basque Government has been dubious, inconsistent, weak and changing. It has been dubious in the face of the role that the majority shareholders have played throughout this time, with a lukewarm stance not to harm their conduct. Majority shareholders who are being investigated for offences of misappropriation and corporate crime, who have been charged with use and privileged information, adoption of abusive agreements, and acts against free market competition. And yet we have not heard, we have not seen the Basque Government, even though it has known this situation long before being made public by the company committee. But, moreover, the Basque Government has carried out an inconsistent, inconsistent position, because from the beginning it has said that there could not be participation in public capital and that there could not be a public participation in the capital of La Naval, when there was no report to be credited. Our group requested that report a year ago. We asked again in May and there has been no report on this. The only thing that has happened, the only thing the Basque Government has argued has been the existence of a letter – from this letter – that they said they could not intervene in La Naval. That's not true. This letter did not at any time state that the Government could not take public participation. This letter simply asked for information, asked for information. And this is not what has been transferred during all these months to public opinion. But, moreover, the position of this Government has been weak, weak, because a Government that has all the industrial policy tools at its disposal must use them to solve the problems of the people, to solve the problems of the Basque economy. What do we want self-government for if we don't use it later, Mr. Egibar? We have gone to Belgium to say how ridiculous we are doing with La Naval, unable to use the industrial policy tools we have, to give a solution to an emblematic and strategic company in Euskadi. But in addition, the position of the government – and I finish with my criticism – has been changing, has been changing. It was said on October 6, 2017, in this rostrum Mrs Tapia told me: "There are investors, Mr.Becerra, what happens is that you don't see them." Yesterday, Mrs Tapia said that there are no investors willing to buy La Naval. There aren't, there aren't. But, in addition, it was said that participation in La Naval, in La Naval's shareholdership, was not possible, that public participation was impossible. And last Friday both the lehendakari and Mrs Tapia acknowledged that you can, that you can. This stance of the Basque Government of the accompaniment has led us to a failed road map, which we have been implementing for months. The road map that was: let's do the dragon, let's have 20 months of peace, get a private investor and then public support will come. Draga, private investor, public support. This is a failed road map. It proved itself yesterday. The road map that would have been desirable to apply is the one proposed by Elkarrekin from the beginning: public rescue, construction of the dredge, arrival of a private investor. That is the order of the factors and not the opposite. And it's not just a changing attitude. The answer time has lasted until the time has passed, and yesterday the head of Tapias said that there are no investors, no private investors, and that all the employees we met yesterday will be fired in two weeks. And that's why, last Friday, we asked Tapia to get the engagement to rescue La Naval. The public division is necessary, and not the minority, but the majority. Together we believe that public participation in Podemos is possible, not only partial, but it is possible. And if there's no private investor, there's only one way out of it. That's why we're asking for a report in this motion to examine all the possibilities, but what we're asking now is to start that measure. The issue of public participation has been throughout this year the battle horse of the government, the company committee and, of course, of our group, Elkarrekin Podemos. We have always argued that public participation is possible, temporary or permanent, majority or minority. We have always said that public participation was possible. And today we have to reaffirm it with all our strength. The treaties of the European Union establish the neutrality of public or private property. That means that public property will never, ever be discriminated against in respect of private property, provided that it intervenes on equal terms. And it is the treaties of the European Union that lead us to say that majority public participation is possible. And so said Commissioner Vestager in an appearance on November 20, 2017, at the request of several MEPs, precisely to report on the acquisition by the French State of the shipyard of Saint-Nazaire, a shipyard that today is in the hands of the French Government and the Italian Government, mostly, mostly. Mrs Vestager said, and I read it last Friday and I think it is important to read it again: "The rules of the treaty on the neutrality of public or private property allow ownership and control, ultimately, by Italy or France, by acquiring existing shares, owned by STX Korea in liquidation." In liquidation, which is the phase at which we see ourselves engaged. And therefore, today, already today, we consider that it is not only possible, but that it is necessary and that it is essential to take control of the Basque Government or the Government of Spain, or both, of the shipyard of La Naval. Because the shipyard of La Naval is a strategic sector and the strategic sectors are those that differentiate an industrial country from a country of services. That is why, throughout the whole world, very diverse governments, with very diverse ideologies, have decided to take part in their businesses. From Jeremy Corbyn, in Britain, calling for the nationalisation of certain companies, to Mr Macron, president of France, liberal or even neoliberal, who, saying one thing, has nationalized the shipyard of Saint-Nazaire precisely to prevent them from leaving the largest shipyard in all France. Emerging countries – and I am not going to quote names, but there are many – have established control of their public enterprises to prevent them precisely from being displaced. And even Mr. Trump has a whole policy to protect his heavy industry. Because even those who claim to defend the free market don't believe in it. Because it is neither free nor market, but it is a jungle, where the only law is that of the strongest. And Euskadi is not the strongest country precisely, let's say, and that is precisely why it draws our attention from Elkarrekin.We can say that in the past general policy debate one of the concerns of the lehendakari were the distortions of the free market. We cannot be concerned about the free market as that free market makes our companies disappear. We cannot continue to accompany our companies to the niche, to the grave, as long as we witness their disappearance impassive. If we are thinking of creating a fund to encourage the rooting of our companies of 250 million euros, we have to realise that the rooting is not only trying to take minority holdings, accompanying private investors. I have said this from the beginning in this rostrum, private capital has no roots, it has interests. The only one that can facilitate rooting is public capital. And we can ask ourselves if the Naval has or has no roots. I would say that, after 110 years of history, the Naval has its roots. Generations of napkins, generations of people, boys and girls who have lived in the Left Margin have ever dreamed of being remarquers, first-class officers, delineators or even ship captains. The people of the Left Margen have seen throughout their history the imposing silhouettes of the ships, the boots, the sirens of the turn shift. All that's gonna go away. All that's gonna go away. That is the root, that is the root of a people with its industry. The people of the Left Margen will pass from having dreams of being delineating or top officials, to having dreams of being waiters or tour guides of the cruises that always dock on the Right Margen, always on the Right Margen. I would like to finish by quoting a curiously phrase from Mrs Tapia when she took part in Fagor. Ms Tapia said in text that "the risk of doing nothing was greater than the risk of giving the aid". In case of doubt we have to bet on La Naval, not on the European Union, in case of doubt. And I say here and now that we cannot continue to be impassable, that an institutional agreement like today is fine but not enough, that the Basque and Spanish governments have to take a step forward, and that it is no longer time for excuses, it is time, it is the last hour, of commitments. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u4	I'll start showing you the picture of a ship. This is Leiv Eirisson draga. When La Naval fleet made it in his time, it was the greatest Draft in the world. That is, Vox Amalia, the last ship that the Naval Fleet made in the sea. The latest may be the last ship that this ship makes. When Leiv Eirisson daraga was thrown down, and it is very significant to get out of the Biscay Bridge, or, as we call on the Left, under the bridge of Portugal. This drug was an exhibition of the capacity for this ship. He was six hundred feet wide, with a capacity for 460,000 cubic meters. Jan de Null was built for the gunman, 2009. year (s). Vox Amalia last year, 2017, got into the sea. It's not over yet, they're ending up in Santander. But, as I said, and if we don't avoid it, it may be the last ship that La Naval fleet makes. It's number 346. In the yard jargon a number is placed to each of the boats that are made. A centuries-old history that has given rise to the construction of these 346 ships. There is a number 347 that is half in the shipyard of La Naval, of which hangs the possibility that this shipyard has future. Ongi etorriak La Navaleko langileak, welcome and welcome workers from La Naval and also representatives of the auxiliary industry that is unfortunately having, in our opinion, less prominence than it requires, given the volume of employment generated in that industry, throughout this debate. All these ships, paraphrasing that famous final phrase of Blade Runner can disappear, can become history, can disappear as tears in the rain, or as tears in the ria. It is true that much has been said about the company La Naval and sometimes it may seem to us that it will happen to us as in the story of Peter and the wolf, that from so much to say that the wolf comes when it really comes we will not believe it. But, of course, as we could see yesterday, the wolf is at the gates of La Naval and this time it is not that we are already waiting for a thread, but the thread is broken and there is only one strand of which all hope hangs. Some of the committee workers, at one of the meetings we had, told us that they went to work in La Naval in 1980, and that at that time their friends in their gang were already saying: How do you get in there if that company is going to close? 38 years later, the Naval is still open. There have been many crises but, as we say, we can meet before the last one. With La Naval can disappear an entire subsector of the Basque industry, that of the great shipbuilding. We'll never make big boats again in Euskal Herria if La Naval disappears. And in response to what the counsellor said at the last appearance, at the last inquiry, we are obviously not going to underestimate the technological component or the economic contribution in relation to employment that other very important Basque shipyards also make and whose work we want to put into value. But let's remember that this country is not going to make big boats again if the Navy closes. Facilities will be lost, equipment will be lost, staff will be lost, knowledge will be lost, knowledge will be lost There'll be plenty of jobs lost. When the opening was announced yesterday, we knew that he was going to affect 200 people. 180, to be more precise. But we know that the whole volume is much bigger. I've already mentioned the industrial assistant. When you're making a boat, more than 2,000 people can work on the boat. And even so, not directly, indirectly, so many employments which are produced may be vanished. Two hundred right jobs, 2,000 assistant companies, maybe hundreds of thousands across. Adibidez, these days, in mobilizations that have left the door of the company La Naval, we have seen that there is a hotel, a cafeteria... A hotel that is in competition with creditors and that will probably not survive the possible closure of La Naval. That is what we are talking about when we are also talking about indirect employment. I want to mention the 404 companies, at least 404 supplier companies that work for La Naval. Companies whose future is even more complicated – at least that of their workers – than that of the company's own workers. Companies such as GS-Hydro or Pine, almost 2,000 people who in the event of the closure of the Naval will be dragged – and I forgive a little by the metaphor, by the black humor – as when a ship sinks by the suction effect, they will also go to pick. And we have to re-cite the situation to the left. And it often seems that we are demagogues, but in many demands the reality is exaggerated. The situation on the left is very serious. The left hand has suffered the wild deinciliation process, and then has suffered the neglect of all the institutions. They shut down the big factories and forgot about us. Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Enkarterri are for many in this country the far west, the far west of Bizkaia and Euskal Herria, to which public policies have not arrived. They shut down the big factories and put us in supermarkets. And there are still those who insist on reclassifying industrial land to open the door to Amazon. If that is the future that the institutions currently face in the Left Margin, I think we have to raise our voice and not allow it. And don't allow it. Only one figure: Sixth, 1981: 40,000 inhabitants. Sestao, 2018: 27,000 inhabitants. It's a town that's going to sting too along with the industry that was there. And it's no coincidence. I'm not going to go back that far. I will only give the name of a few companies that will sound like all of you, even if you are not working in the field of industry, because their situation has been dealt with here. Companies of the Left Margin, the Mining Zone and Enkarterri: Tubular Products, CEL, General Electric, ACB, La Naval... Companies that are experiencing crisis, because in the Left Margin there are only a few, a few large companies left, and all of them are going through moments of difficulty cyclically. It has not been invested around these companies. We have not created a fabric of new industry, of new advanced industry and technology, that allows these crises not to have the dramatic character they have, because in a town like Sestao that has lost almost half of its population in 30 years, we are now again thinking that another 3,000 or 4,000 jobs are going to be lost is a tragedy and simply a tragedy. And perhaps we have come to an agreement, and, as Mr. Becerra has mentioned, we have considered several elements when we received this agreement. It is true that this agreement is not enough, but rather we have a deal about what unites us, and a political dispute about what does not unite us. We assume that we have to make a final contribution, and we have also seen that in the last few days, at least, some changes have appeared during the discursive stage of government. Some things which seemed impossible before seem now to be considered and considered possible. And therefore we have signed this agreement, though we know that this agreement is not sufficient, and this agreement must be added to it. We have signed a five-point agreement, as I said earlier, on what unites us, that although it is not a definitive road map, it does at least mean marking a number of points that we think are important. And it was worth it, in our view, to articulate a consensus on them, although, of course, there are other issues on which we have not agreed. First of all, the agreement mentions the situation of the Left Margin, and mentions the need to bet on the defence of industry in the region. The Basque Government is also asked to consider the naval sector as a strategic sector, and to put all means, including direct economic investment, to save the shipyard in La Naval. We call for the establishment of that multi-stakeholder table at which all the actors who are affected by the problem feel and once and for all arbitrate that famous road map which does not exist today. And there is also a call for a legal report that supports and makes all this work work, because no one is missed – and Mr Becerra has also insisted on the issue – that there is a discrepancy here on the legal issue. I mean, we can't do it and we're all aware that we can't do what we want, that we can't take out the checkbook and buy the shipyard as well as so, but that we have to meet a number of requirements. What we do not agree with among the parliamentary groups is what these requirements are and whether public intervention is impossible, or to what extent it is authorised. We do not want to act frivolously, we know that in this case, without going any further, in the case of shipyards there have already been other PIEs before, we have already had to return a number of aid that had been made and that the European Union did not consider fit to the law, and that this leads to a very complicated situation. We do not want to frivolize, nor do we want to demagogy. We want rigor and we want to do things right. Then comes the question of tax lease And what we want to do is to guarantee through the intervention of the public authorities, if it is necessary in agreement with agents of private investors also, but also from the public authorities, we want to invest and we want to bet on this yard, because it is not worth making a report to say that we can do nothing. We have told him and I tell him for the third time, we must look for a way and we must not seek excuses in legality. I imagine here in this room there will be a few lawyers and lawyers. There are several in my group. Mrs. Castelo, Ruiz de Arbulo... But I guess there'll be some more around here, too. I'm gonna ask you a question. In the exercise of your profession as lawyers and lawyers, has someone ever presented themselves in your office and told you: "Hey, Mrs. Goirizelaia or Mrs. Ugarte, I have a lawsuit, I come to hire you, but you don't need to give me the reason, you study the case, act as best done in law and if the reason has the other part, then listen I will pay you the same?" This doesn't happen in real life. This doesn't happen, does it, Mrs. Castle? You when you go to a lawyer, when someone goes to your office, what you ask is to defend your interests. And we want to make a legal report, not to tell us what we cannot do, but to give us serious support, of course, and without inventing things, but to give us support for the possibility of public intervention. A public intervention which, so far and in accordance with what has been stated in the full control past and also with what has been agreed here, at least 50% of us all agree that it can be done. And finally, this agreement calls on the central government to act responsibly. Mr Becerra said before, and in this you cannot agree, made a mention I think mixing a little barbecues with merinas, about the self-government of Brussels or not Brussels... Man, what we want self-government for I don't know, but what we want the Government of Spain for, Mr Alonso will tell us that for the TAV and for the Civil Guard. Yes, but in Ezkerraldea we know why we had the Government of Spain, to close the blast furnaces and to close Euskalduna. And elsewhere the shipyards have not been closed, and elsewhere the shipyards have not been privatized, and elsewhere the whole steel industry has not disappeared, but here in Euskal Herria. That's why, with friends like those, who need enemies. But of course, neither can the central government profile itself, because all these arise from a public enterprise, which was Navantia, which privatized the shipyard of La Naval and we will not allow it to slip away from its responsibilities. And finally, we said that signing in this agreement is to be a bet on the left industrialization, all resources, even economics, to put La Naval from the government to advance the ship, to make a table for a solution, and design a page, to guarantee the legal report we want to make. And we appeal to the central government. We agree in this, but there is one thing which we cannot agree with, and that is, it has been mentioned before, and I shall repeat, that we cannot now think that everything depends on the preparation of a private investor. We cannot play everything as we have done so far, to the only card of the appearance of a private investor. Yesterday you counselor referred to that investor in terms that I believe are even injuring, when you said that we are waiting for a white look. The future of the shipyard of La Naval cannot hang from mirls or unicorns. The future of the shipyard in La Naval must depend on our work, on their work or on the work of all. And if the private investor does not appear, it will have to be made or constituted. You cannot pass, as you have spent the last year and peak as the characters of that novel, forgiveness, play of the absurd drama, Waiting for Godot. You can't keep waiting for Godot, you can't keep waiting for the investor, because, forgive me the spoiler, the play is over and the people who have spent all the work waiting for Godot there continue and Godot hasn't appeared, and he says to each other, "What, are we going?" And he says "yes," and they're still sitting. It is famous because it represents what is absurd in the theater, but it is that, of course, we cannot do it is to wait for the investor until the Naval appears and closes. If it does not appear and if it is necessary to partner with private agents, you believe that investor. You believe that investor, you create a private society, you help create a private society, you develop a dialogue with the agents of the Basque socio-economic environment to create that organization or company that can invest and to which the Basque Government can accompany. And I believe that we agree at least to 50%, perhaps more, but at least to the 50% we agree. Do not wait for Godot, because if Godot does not appear, the Naval closes, and neither Ezkerraldea, nor Bizkaia, nor Euskal Herria can allow the Naval to close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u6	Good morning, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari. Today it seemed like a good day, because there was a unanimous agreement of all groups on such an important subject as the shipyard of La Naval, but let's say that yesterday's news, with the ERE of extinction, does not exactly make it a good day. And I have to say here that it is something surprising that we are talking about a shipyard in trouble the year that the naval sector in Spain and the Basque Country is doing very well. All shipyards are doing very well. All shipyards make money. Everyone has a workload. And yet, we are here talking about a shipyard that is going to close, of which we knew some problems two years ago, not on the part of entrepreneurs, but on the part of the workers, when they told us that they were running out of ten years of guarantee to return to Navantia, and that it seemed rare that they would leave 180 to Navantia and La Naval would run out of workers. And when it doesn't sound weird, let's just say the company didn't seem worried about it at all. We did, we were worried, and we obviously moved. We were also surprised when Mr Alonso and I went to Madrid to talk about this issue. We were surprised that Navantia was happy to receive them, they didn't care to receive them, they had no problem with those workers, precisely. And I believe that it is further proof that, in fact, that shipyard was an important shipyard, with important technology, with important workers and that, moreover, it makes important ships, and that it gives important work to many people and, by the way, a lot of tax revenue to the Provincial Council and the Basque Government, because when you build a ship, a 400 million-cost ship, you have to see how much IRPF is, how much it is VAT and how much other taxes are levied on the cost of that ship. But, well, we're in that situation, and that situation got better. I remember the company wasn't in loss. But as much as we know this... because neither are we, we know that in this country when someone has a problem, they first go to the government and then to the parties they believe. The last ones are usually us; generally, they come to the People's Party when they have found no solution anywhere else. But, a year ago, we talked to the lehendakari, who seemed to be the first time he knew that there were problems in this shipyard, when they started to be and the problems started to sound – the counselor smiled at me – but it's been two years since that. Two years since that. There were, I think, five ships in the shipyard's work portfolio, from La Naval. The problem was not the workload. He had a workload of up to two thousand... I don't remember what it was, 2021, 2022. That was not the problem, the problem is another. That the management has been harmful is obvious, from the owners, or the non-management or I know. I don't know what it was, I don't know what it was, and I'm not going to qualify it, because it's not the problem. But it is clear that this does not only affect workers. I said it the other day, Friday. To me the workers of La Naval who are going to relocate to Navantia, because it does not seem to me that they have a great problem. Man, they'd rather live in Sestao than have to go somewhere else, like everybody else. But of course, they're not the problem. The problem is that we lose an entire sector. I already know that there are other shipyards that make other ships, and even the councilwoman knows and the lehendakari knows that we are talking about a very important shipbuilding sector. And that when a large shipyard is closed, which makes large ships in Europe, it is very complicated to reopen a new one, if not virtually impossible. And we all know that. But if you lose the human capital, which is the one who knows how to make the boats, the counselor will understand my skepticism that, once we fire everyone, once everything is closed, once someone arrives and says, "Now there are no debts and it's all done, now I come in and there is a solar, a solar." And that cannot be a project, or the continuity of a project, will be something else. But it doesn't feel like it's going to be a continuation of that sector and that big or very big boat building business, whether it's gas or dredges. Or at least we don't think so. Now, I have to admit that it does seem good to us... just as on Friday the Counsellor asked me what it meant to articulate, because it seems that we have all understood what it means to articulate, and in the compromise amendment, which is very important to us, of the whole amendment, and that is why our amendment was only on that point, which is that the Basque Government articulates with the private sector an alternative that guarantees its industrial and economic weakness. And that can be done by the government. The Basque Government. This Autonomous Community, someone has said this before, which always demands many competences, in this matter we all have: we have competence in industrial matters, we have fiscal competence, we have funds, we have various investment funds of all kinds, investment capacity, as the lehendakari reminded us the other day. We recently created a fund, which was supposed to invest in emblematic, important Basque companies, and in the end we bought shares that Kutxabank sold, but well, in the initial idea it seemed that those funds were to invest in important companies in this country. We have all these materials and it is clear that with these materials that we have and with the business sector that we have, this Government, like other previous governments, is able to articulate proposals for viable projects, because it has to be viable and economic. Because we're not talking about saving a shipyard today so that the day after tomorrow it closes. We certainly do not agree with what we were being asked from Podemos that the only solution is nationalization. Because it is clear that this is not the solution. That is the final closure and also with economic sanctions from Brussels. Whether we like it or not, that's how it works. That is precisely not the solution. The solution is to articulate a viable project that saves that company and maintains, and maintains the Know-how But when no one's there, what are we talking about? That's the question I ask the counselor. And the Government of Spain, listen, that the Government of Spain participates, because it seems very good to us, but the Government of Spain here has the same powers, sorry, less than the one that the Councilwoman has. Therefore, this appeal to the Spanish Government, listen, is very good, but in this case, I repeat, we have the competences, we have the capacity, we do not need anyone. I said that the other day, in this respect we operate as a more Union member state, which we have to meet the same requirements as the other states, and point. And, man, the Government of Spain, what has he done on the Left Margin? I, Mr. Casanova, may as well be younger... for you see, pay the pre-retirements of all the workers of all those companies, which were thousands, hundreds and hundreds of billions of pesetas that paid all the Spaniards, so that the workers of the Left Margen could be pre-retired, some less than 50 years old. That was done by the Government, which was not part of the People's Party, but it was already talking and saying things, because I think we have to say them all. And I just hope that we do not have to come back here on this issue, because the Counsellor and this Government, with the lehendakari at the head, and the deputy general of Bizkaia, have been able to before everything is finally closed down and there is a yard, to articulate a project that is economically viable, that meets the requirements of the European Union and that saves the Naval and the auxiliary sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u8	Good morning, everyone. Mr Casanova asked me, or he asked us lawyers that we can be parliamentarians in this House, what we do when a customer comes to the office and asks us for an opinion on the defence of their interests. If a lawyer is honest, he studies the case and doesn't sell false expectations, he doesn't sell smoke. Because it may be that the defense of his interests has only one path, and not the one he intends to pose to you. And that's what's going on here today too. You have had a much more realistic view of the problem, and you know perfectly well that the first step to take so that we are not talking about the end of the Naval. By the way, we don't throw in the towel, and it's just that there are people here who come out and throw out the towel. We seem to have been surprised by the fact that it was publicly known yesterday that there might be an ERE of contract extinction, but it was a fact that we already knew it from at least last week. Just like you have to be a little bit more in touch, instead of filling out what the 10-minute speech is. Well, what we have to do here is make things clear. You have had a more coherent stance, from my point of view. We know perfectly well that the first step to take – and the company committee knows it, and I will not sell false expectations either here – is that there is an immediate workload for La Naval, for the activity to continue and for it to be an interesting shipyard for search, articulation, finding, painting – call it whatever you want, because I don't care – an investor, who together with the Basque Government, together with the public administrations, enter the assets of La Naval and we have a future option for this company. So that's what someone honestly does when he doesn't want to cheat, tell you where you can walk and where you could crash. This Parliament has always spoken, and you have said so, unanimously in support of the Sestao Naval. Today is not going to be an exception, and all political groups are going to support it. The thing is, I would have liked that support to be honest. And it has given me the feeling, by the intervention of the spokesman of Podemos, that he does not believe in the agreement that we are reaching here. As much as we here, all political groups fill ten minutes of conversation, that is not going to be important for the future of La Naval. The important thing is that the Basque Government and the Ministry of Industry have or bear fruit in their talks with Van Oord and that we get the contract of Drax Vox Alexia, that dredge, to be the next one to come out of the shipyard of La Naval. That's what's really going to save the Naval. I therefore believe that the agreement we had was an agreement not of minimums, but with a fixed and clear route. Something that should not be of interest either to any of the groups that have intervened here today, becoming like the surprised of the situation or of gravity, because a year ago, a year ago, there was some other initiative that was not intended to be brought back to this House and has withdrawn. Now all of a sudden we're in a hurry for the Naval, but there are people who are working with them, not now, not this year, but years and years ago, with them to solve all the problems. Because the wolf has approached La Naval on many occasions, it is not the first. And in all of them, in which it has appeared, let's say tax lease, let's say lack of workload, let's say ERE of suspension of contracts – up to eight accumulated here –, on all those occasions we have managed to get the wolf back, and this one we don't want to be an exception. We are talking, and we know it, about a company that dates back to 100 years of history. A company with an indispensable and undeniable industrial potential for the development of the left margin region. You can't tell me here and less to me with 38, sorry, with 48 years of experience already in Sestao, what is the linking our people with that and other companies. I mean, it's really hard that someone who's been in Sestao all this time doesn't have an uncle, a father, a grandfather, a brother, a neighbor, a friend who's not connected to the company, sooner or later. And we saw that yesterday at the Sestao demonstration. The people turn to that company, the region turns to that company, because we know that our future as a people and our future as a region goes through the future of La Naval. It goes through the continuity of the activity in La Naval and that does not have to come to explain to this Parliament absolutely no one, we are very clear. It is true that shipbuilding, and we also say this in the agreement because we believe it is important, is a strategic tractor sector of the Basque economy, and so we believe it is necessary to proclaim it again today. The same thing we did a few months ago, when we tried to make some conclusions about the presentation of the situation of the Left Margin, right? We have a sector, the naval, which is a generator of direct and indirect employment, let us not forget and you have said it, of the auxiliary industry, which is a generator of wealth not only economic but also social. And that's very important to us too. And that's what it means for me, for the Sestaotarras and for the Left Margin and I imagine that for all of you the Sestao Naval. And it's true, I'm telling you that we've been through major obstacles, they know that. Since their creation they have always been jumping the fences that have been put on their way. But even in the discount time we have been able to overcome it. And it is true that today we find ourselves in a difficult time, Iker said last Friday, the clock is in orange yes, it is true that it is in orange, but it is still in orange and we cannot throw the towel away. There is little time but it is also true – Iker said, he did not want to recognize José Ramón – but it is also true that there is a firm and, from our point of view, sincere will of the public administrations at this time to give a solution to La Naval, to give continuity to the activity of La Naval. And we join forces with the rest of the House today and we do so in a sincere way, and I will not tire of saying so, so that the Basque Government, so that it may advise and so that the Lehendakari will redouble their efforts to guarantee the future of the Naval. I know and you know, and you have acknowledged, that the Basque Government is concerned and busy trying to give a solution to the Naval, and one more step needs to be taken. We are today asking the Government to take direct part in the company's assets. We are telling the government today to enter the future of the company to ensure a viable industrial plan for the shipyard. The workers are clear about this, we don't have to tell them. We Socialists, too, are clear. Already in 2011, with the lehendakari Patxi López at the head, we tried to unite the will of the outlaws and the government to enter the shareholdership of La Naval and thus, from within and with public control, also guarantee the viability of the company. Because at that time there was also an appearance here, in 2014, of the company committee, when we were told that they still had problems because they did not sign workload, the tax read And that's kind of what happened. Here the responsibility also has to be clear. There's been a terrible management of the shipyard. At that time, when they entered, they were recognized as a group of Basque entrepreneurs who came to give viability and future to a company. Well, that group of Basque entrepreneurs, praised at the beginning, has been harmful in their management. So bad that already in 2014 the unions, the company committee, told us that they behaved like a real henhouse. But in that 2011, when we tried, the shareholders didn't leave him. Today we are in 2018 and they will not have that veto right that the shareholders then had. At the moment it is possible that we can decide to enter the yard from the public administrations, with sufficient legal guarantees, so that what happened in other circumstances, at other times and with other types of aid does not happen to us. Of course, from the legality but also from the conviction and firmness that that is the way we had to go. The chairman of the company committee said that this Sunday in a medium of communication, and I ratify it here today: hope is the last thing we can lose. The news is not good and we didn't find out yesterday, we've known it for some time. And the Naval goes from obstacle to obstacle and the thing is, it's true that it doesn't paint well. But let's see if among all, among all, with sincerity, among all, we are able to play well the last ball before the game ends. And that's what I want to ask Councilwoman Tapia and Mr. Lehendakari. We have a discount time in the game, we have to give 1,000 % for the Naval to continue to have a future. We need it in the region, we need the sestaotarras, we need the Naval to stay with us. That is why I ask you to make a greater effort than has been done so far to ensure that the shipyard remains a reality for today's and tomorrow's greenhouses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u10	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, our solidarity with the workers of a company that still stands up to the crisis. We've talked about this strategic company on the left, almost every time. In a quick diagonal look at the history of this Parliament, I have found hundreds of documents relating to La Naval: questions, interpellations, commissions and non-law proposals. And always, they have always been to defend the survival of the company against various avatars, and always those avatars were adverse. Without going any further, two questions and one question were raised in this House last Friday, which were duly answered by the Lehendakari and the Economic Development Advisor, so that I understood that this debate could have ended, but it can be seen that it is not and, moreover, that we are all repeating ourselves. Meanwhile, La Naval continues in a critical situation, in competition with creditors and already with a notice of imminent extinction, with an absent board of directors, a dubious shipowner... We can enter into the sharing of responsibilities and surely everyone will place them differently and where he understands fit. But as much as we are discussing it, we will not find a solution to this problem, which is what it was about today. Although, I insist, in moments of calmerness, deepening the responsibilities would not be wrong either, because it is likely that if the owners had become more and better involved, the banks would have trusted better and the shipowner of the pending construction ship would have taken some step, as we would not be in the current situation. The just managers have not been willing to know or not to find a solution, and consequently the object of this PNL to-day must be to find a solution among them all, though it is hard to find a solution, in order to take air, and in the middle term to present a solution to the future. Our group and the Socialist Group have dealt with this approach with our amendment because it has also given us serious impetus to an attempt to reach agreement. We believe more than, frankly, a broad agreement, it is better than cutting Parliament's opinion into different views of the solution and the treatment to be given to this matter. Because from the beginning we have known that only a broad agreement of this House will allow the workers of La Naval if they do not see an immediate solution, but visualize that there is a pact to ask the Administration for a path to follow, a unanimous path in this case. Because for everyone to find their identification, I don't know, in a piece of the broken left that is now, there will always be time and opportunities of other characteristics, let's expect less dramatic than the current one. Because we all agree that the naval sector is strategic and tractor of the Basque economy, and while the Naval is not the only company in the sector, that there are others, its possible disappearance is true that it would be a hard blow. Even if you let me take advantage of it to claim these companies in the Basque sector, also high-tech and high-performance companies, which do not exactly make Txalupas or trainers per cent. A sector that employs 13,700 people in total and that in 2017 charged more than 2.8 billion euros. And, further, because all of us agree and wish to keep talking, especially companies, stockholders, and workers, and Basque and state governments. This does not mean that some have not been doing so for a long time and in a continuous way, because we all know, except those who do not want to know, that the relationship between the Department that runs Mrs. Arantza Tapia and the company committee has been continuous; the same as with the shareholders, the management, the banks and, of course, with the shipowner who has pending the possibility of building a ship. Apart from the more or less urgent opportunities of other governments, others, the Government, the Lehendakari and the Department of Economic Development with their head counselor, carry this Parliament and the previous one accompanying, working on the search for solutions, preventing irreversible actions and seeking shareholders, and not only when the opposition comes to ask or criticize what inaction. The government, you and the company committee know this, they've been working and accompanying us all the time to find solutions to the problem. Perhaps they want to make someone believe, from an opportunistic perspective, that the government has neglected a matter of this silence. And look, it's not true, they're not gonna believe it. But, of course, even now it turns out that accompanying seems nothing and is ironic about the concept. When I accompany, among other things, and I am going to quote the RAE, it is to go in the company of other people, to exist together with another or simultaneously with it, or to participate in the feelings of someone, who is not little. In this case, in addition to the emotional part that, I insist, is not baladí, to accompany is to be with the wrong person, to help him, to seek solutions to his conflict with him, or to delay the actions of others that may harm the companion. Do you think there's little to go with? And while the government was working, it was meeting, talking to all those who had something to say, delaying actions that could give to the firm's final bust or looking for investors, others called the government, essentially to become its owner. And when the government replied that according to Community rules it was illegal and therefore impossible, it was answered from the opposition that nothing was done. When it was known that the lehendakari in September 2017 talked about the possibility of entering the shareholdership whenever there was a viability plan, and within 24 hours received an EU letter requesting information and opening an information file, it was again said that nothing was done. And all that when everyone knew that a company in crisis could not receive public aid, and it was obvious that La Naval was in competition with creditors, which is, let's say, the paradigm of being in crisis. We can give it all the laps we want, but the truth is what it is and so far it has not been possible to make that contribution of public money, because the regulation is what it is. They can be disheartened by criticizing what has not been done, what could not be done, and by quieting what has been done, what could be done, which, among other things, has been to press for the renewal of positions of all and thus to feed the possibility of settlement. And if today the Naval is still alive, agonistic but alive, and hoping to get back together, it is because the Basque Government has been there, accompanying it. From here and when the company is wound up, it can start again, basically because we no longer have a firm in crisis, we will have a company with nothing, and with the willingness to be rebutted, with the possibility that a reliable investor can come with a viability plan, and there, yes, there may be that the public administrations can give aid of different types, of R & D mainly, or take shares in them, provided that they do not exceed 50% of the total, that that would be to publish it. For in recent times it has been overly and forcefully spoken, as if the balm of Fierabras were, of the publication of La Naval, who know that it cannot be done and, therefore, it is also impossible, while suggesting a very interesting debate on a method and a dangerous precedent. Because I'm going to ask, I'm going to risk a little bit: Why the Naval yes and any other company no? Regardless of how strategic we consider it, many other companies have gone through and will surely go through the same situation. And the solution does not seem to be to publish them, turning their workers into civil servants. For what? If there is neither a business plan nor a future plan, the administration, man, can have funds, everyone's and everyone's to put it in a company, but it is not up to the government to solve the management problems of the industries in crisis, I believe. Having said that, today we are talking about making decisions that are to continue to accompany and seek solutions, among them those to accompany so that the pending dredge of construction will be completed; to accompany in continuing to seek a reliable investor group, able to resume the march of La Naval or, as Mr Damborenea says, to articulate an investor; and then, to accompany with aid or with the presence of the administrations themselves on the board of directors; and thus, to make the solution not temporary, that it becomes structural. All that is accompanying. Consequently it is the end of all of us to find a solution to La Naval, but apart from the excessive excesses that create confession in the rules of the community. Therefore, it is essential that there are reference partners who know about the business and that, in cases like this, the Administration can provide funds and accompany the management – again accompany – which is what the Government does with many companies and which has been doing, does and will do with La Naval. In short, even if it seems not, we are very satisfied with the unanimity we have achieved in the document we have signed and I will simply say to you, as Albert Camus said: "Do not walk behind me, I can not guide you. Don't walk in front of me, I can't follow you. Just walk by my side, join me." And, put, in case anyone's worth it, there's what the writer said to Victoria Schwab: "Politics are exhausting." I'm making a letter. For me it is, not physically but, lately, for patience, enormous. Politics is exhausting, but accompanied can be pleasant. Today we have accompanied each other and when we manage to accompany each other, do you know what we have achieved? Accompany those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u12	Mr. Casanova. My reference to the self-organization wasn't exactly like that of the Populative Party. Mine is a completely favorable self-engineer, and more auto-gournings are better. But you said "para defender nuestros." Nothing to do. What's the point? If self-government does not serve to improve people's lives and does not serve to improve our economic fabric, why do we want it? To brag about him? If we have all the powers in industrial policy and we do not apply them, it does not serve us. But I am not going to defend, of course, either the role of the Spanish Government or those who seek to reduce self-government. I just want it to be used. Our group has never talked about nationalisation, Mr Damborenea, nor has it talked about publication, as Mr Telleria says. We've been talking about bailout, public bailout, which is taking part. And we have said it, whether temporary or permanent, majority or minority. We've said it from the beginning. And we have not done so with demagogy or alarmism; we have done so with all the rigour we have been able to within our group. We have requested legal reports more than once. Mr Tellería, up to twice he has had to ask, this parliamentarian, for the Bureau's protection to receive those reports from the Basque Government, the Department of Economic Development, up to twice for the Bureau's protection. The question is: Public participation, when? When and when not? Mr. Telleria says: Why not in any company? Because any company is not viable, like La Naval, and any company is not strategic, like La Naval. Therefore, La Naval yes, because it is strategic and because it is viable, and because it has won 50 million euros, while it had a moderately decent direction. And when he stopped having a decent address, he started losing money. The question, Mr Damborenea, is: What if there are no private investors? What if the white eyes don't come? And in the face of doubt, our group is clear: go ahead, go ahead. We have found, within our modest possibilities, no impediment to majority participation. Obviously, in the liquidation phase, in the liquidation phase, when the company, as Mr Telleria has said, ceases to be in crisis. I cannot analyse, Mrs Castelo, whether the government's will has been sincere or not; that is part of the subjective. I have my own opinion. But when you say you've been firm, I say no. And I have given four adjectives: doubtful, inconsistent, weak and changing. And I'll add a fifth: complex. Complex. Complexed, because it is true that they have tried to do things, but as soon as the European Union has asked for the Naval, we have turned back. It is not true, Mr. Telleria, that the letter reached Mr. Lehendakari. He got to the Ministry, he got to the Ministry. Indeed, it was because of Mr Lehendakari's statements. All the European Union did was ask what situation it was in and what kind of aid it was making. That is what the European Union did, and before that we went back and squared ourselves. And that can't be. You have said, Mr Telleria, that you have made a relationship of those responsible: the shareholders, the banks, the shipowner. From my point of view, I have limited myself to relating the responsibilities of the Government that have not been fulfilled. But all those you mentioned look for your interests, look for your interests. The only one who can look for the public interest is the Government, for the general interest. And that is why we ask you for a compromise, a compromise, not a will, Mrs Castelo. A commitment. You socialists give us lessons every day about what socialist commitment is. Look, you have a good chance, fifth point of today's resolution; go to Madrid, talk to your government, who have had it since May, and tell him that since he owns Navantia, because he has a workload. Because if we don't have a private shipowner, why don't we bring in a load of work, of civil shipbuilding, to which Navantia is also dedicated? There's a good chance to show your commitment. And then, and only then, tell us about populists, demagogues and all that sort of thing. Of course we want this agreement, but we are clear that it is an insufficient agreement, because in view of yesterday's data, there is no time left. There is no investor and in two weeks, there will be no staff. What do we do then?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u14	Yeah. Mr Tellería, of course you have the backing of the Euskal Herria Bildu parliamentary group so that the government can get involved as much as possible by supporting all the companies that generate 4,000 jobs, be the main company in a disadvantaged region in socio-economic terms and represent a sub-sector of which they are the only component, all those, even others that do not meet the characteristics, too. In general, they have our support to support all companies, each according to their needs, and if they have several children, they will know that the syrup is given to the child who is sick, not to all. Then, in this case, the sick, and very serious, is the Naval. Due to its size, location and subsector, maximum implication is required. And this agreement we have reached today, I would say it is a good but insufficient agreement. We must not overestimate it by saying that it is the final road map, nor must we deny the progress it entails. It represents progress, in our view, the opposition of the government and of the parties that support it, because there is a commitment to go to financing and public investment of up to 50% of the capital, to give maximum support to La Naval, to give legal support. And without incurring fear, or in bad procedural faith, or other things that lawyers are forbidden to do, but it is true that you can ask to do a job favorable to the interests of the person in charge. Because I, look at this parliamentary group, do not currently have a legal report endorsed by the best lawyers who are experts in Community law saying that it is possible to publish 100%, you don't have it, I don't think anyone has it. What we are asking for and our group defends is the public sector and defends an industrial public sector, and believes that there can be a rescue and believes that there can be an intervention, and that it can be up to 100%, believes it. But he understands that there is a legal debate on this and he understands that on previous historical occasions doing things without the proper legal basis has caused more harm than solutions. And so what we are asking is that this legal work be done by the experts and that it be entrusted by those who have the resources to commission it, which is the Basque Government. From a political and economic point of view, we do defend a public and industrial sector, and we believe that there may be more intervention in this yard than 50%, but we believe that there must be legal support, with documentation that does not exist today. In any case, and as I said, at least up to 50% have already been agreed. And for us that is a novelty to hear in the mouth of the government and it is also a novelty to agree to create the multi-stakeholder table, which has been being denied all this time. And you said there were other initiatives that have parked. Indeed, they have parked out of prudence. Because here the goal is not to go out to this rostrum and give the can medal to the best speaker or to the one who has said things with the most salty. The goal is to save the shipyard. And when the shipyard was waiting for that thread, which now said it's broken, there's only one of those little hybrids left, when it was waiting for that thread, everyone agreed that the oxygen ball that was vitally needed was that Van Oord would order the construction or that the dredge would be finished. And at that time it is true that a political debate was not intended to be mixed up; political noise was not intended to alter that decision, which was a decision that depended on several parties. Ultimately Van Oord, but also very complex negotiations, with the bank, with the yard management and so on. And in that sense, while we have been asked, even on the part of the workers, prudence, we have been cautious; but we do not bring this now by whim, nor because in the liquidation phase it has put La Naval again in the shipyards. We say because the situation in the shipyard has changed substantially. Precisely because, when it comes to liquidation, the excuses have already been dropped for there to be no public intervention, and precisely because at the moment we do, before it is too late, we have to demand that what needs to be done be done. That is why we have come now, and that is why we have been cautious before, not because we have not been monitoring the situation on a permanent basis, but because we intervened at the moment when we believe that our intervention is not going to provide us with political results, but it is going to contribute something. And we believe that something has already contributed. Because, as I said earlier, the positions of the Government have moved, and have been moved by social pressure and also by political pressure. Mr Damborenea said that, of course, the Government of Spain did much for the Left Margin to pay for the pre-retirements. Man, I know the case, my father was one of those pre-retired people. But what you did was buy social peace; good conditions for workers in exchange for closing down businesses. What about your kids and your grandchildren? Man, one has ended up here in this Parliament. But the rest, where is it? Where are the jobs? Where are the companies? There was a systematic, systematic industrial dismantling of the entire large industry of the Left Margin. And that was basically done by the central governments. And the passiveness of the Basque Government in the later decades has prevented that gap from being filled with new businesses and new industries. And it's true, and we're done with it, that things have been done. We don't like catastrophes. That you haven't done anything... you've done things, but you haven't done everything right. Or at best, you'll have to admit that it wasn't enough, because yesterday you said, counselor, that if the white eye doesn't appear, it closes. So, to say that that's well done... at least admit it's insufficient. And what we are proposing here is constructively what can be done, what can be done. And if you say it's essential that private investor, you believe in that private investor. They believe in that private investor, because EH Bildu also defends that public money has to be managed rigorously and this is not a bottomless sack, this is not a company without a solution, this is not a doomed sector. As mentioned above, this is a well-managed company that can make money. This is, of all the companies in crisis that we have dealt with in this Parliament in recent times, it is the only company that does not die of starvation, dies of indigestion, that had more work than it has been able to do with rigor to obtain the proper benefit of those...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u15	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u16	And therefore, it is a company that has viability in economic terms. And, therefore, we are saying that the public money that is going to be invested there is not only money well invested in social terms, but also in economic terms. And if the partner doesn't show up, make sure he shows up, do it, talk to the social partners, and get that partner to show up. And if not, believe it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u18	I was wondering what happens if the white eyeballs don't show up. Since I don't believe in white eyes, I've seen black people, because I never think about those things. And that is why we said from the outset that we urged the Government to articulate a joint private-sector position with the public because it can be done. Now, you were telling me that you don't talk about nationalization. Well, call it whatever you want, but if in the end the Basque Government or a public administration comes in and buys 100% of a company, because you won't call it nationalization, but in the rest of the world it's called that, it's very left-wing and, by the way, it doesn't work. Because Mr. Casanova told us it was Felipe González's government that did all that, right? And what he did was buy social peace. Well, I don't know if you bought social peace, but in this case, make sure we don't solve anything, because social peace is going to go to Navantia, that is, you don't have this problem. If you nationalize or publish, or put the word you want in this case, La Naval and do not solve any of the problems of the auxiliary sector, no... Unless we're publishing all the companies around. Therefore, it is not the solution. And from the beginning we know we don't. And what I was pointing out is that it's random or it's not random, but this year 2018 that the whole Spanish, Basque, Galician naval sector, are all the phenomenal shipyards, all working, all with workload, all earning money, doing interviews, the CEO, their association, saying that they have never been better in the last 15 or 20 years. The public also works well and casually in the year when in Europe, well the public, as the counselor says no, I don't know, but the privates are all – and this private era – are all delighted with themselves how things are going. And it turns out we're talking about the most important of the privates we have, because it's locked up. I'm not going to deflect the subject, the subject is what it is. It is a sector that is obviously viable, it is an economically viable sector and it is being demonstrated by all the shipyards that are working. This very yard was viable and, as has already been said here, had enough workload for more than 10 years, and yet management, which has been nothing good, has led us to this situation, which I do not know if it is sought or not sought, but it is clear that in what we are today... I believe that the agreement that we have reached is good, I hope from the good agreements, when they are unanimous, is that in the end they are fulfilled. That is to say, if we all agree that the agreement is good, for let us hope that it will be implemented, and let us hope that the Basque Government, which in this case, of course, is primarily responsible and that which has the mechanisms together with the Bizkaia Parliament, has them all, fiscal, economic and industrial, we all have them in order to be able to put forward a viable project economically in the shipyard of La Naval and to continue to pull the economy out of that whole area. And what I wish the counselor was that she could put on the medals as soon as possible, because she has done very well, she has managed it, she has discovered that articulating means putting together several things that are separate. And perhaps within a few months we must congratulate you on the good you have done, which is what I would like to be able to do here in December.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u20	Mr. Becerra, you said public ransom. I don't know if that's a slogan. He has now marked it to me in the second half and told me to take majority or minority public participation – that's what I took from you – and then he said, a little later, than after the crisis came out. Well, more or less what the counselor said to her also on Friday, more or less what we put in the amendment, more or less what we know we can do. When you say public bailout and encourage false expectations, you're not being honest with them, because a public bailout doesn't mean, and I think Iker told you, we can't take the check, get to the competition manager and say, "Take the Naval of the Basque Government; solve the problems, we start building and everything here arranged." No, it's not true and you know it, have or don't have the legal report. That is to say, that there are doubts and that we need legal certainty, that we too recognise. And it is true, I do not share that there is no difference for the Basque Government to act in this company, it is not like any other company. It is that this company also depends on the development of a region, and in this Parliament we have achieved unanimity to say that the development of the region of the Left Margin... and yesterday were all the mayors of different political symbols, and they were very clear that we cannot afford to lose La Naval we cannot afford to continue to lose industrial fabric. And there is something that has been done, by the way, with some consistency since the city council, all the political groups that are in the city council, and it is to ensure that there will be no requalification of industrial land, that these land is industrial, that it has become an auxiliary industrial polygon for the naval sector, and that it will continue to be so. So that there are neither false expectations nor elucubrations where they do not have to be. We already did that at a certain point in time, in the previous crisis in La Naval. We have done it again, now, and we will always do it again, because in Sestao we trust and believe in industrial development and industrial development needs. You're a son... I think you told me that your father was a worker in the Naval, in the Upper Horns. Well, I'm from La Naval, my father is retired from La Naval, and my uncle is retired from Euskalduna at the time, in conversion, and I have another guy. Altos Hornos de Bizkaia is the only one that has touched us, but I also had it in Aurrera and I also had it in General Electric and I also had it in the Babcock Wilcox, and we have lived and know perfectly what the processes of industrial conversion mean for the Left Margen. Therefore, no one can teach us what the struggle means. Nor should we be mistaken, Mr Becerra, for turning back must not be confused with the discretion and prudence that sometimes advises the efforts that must be made to achieve certain agreements. And I think you know or should know because here they have told you and you will have heard it, that visits to the yard have occurred, because it takes a year to find people who have visited the yard with different interests, intentions or possibilities. And we have said this in our agreement, if the investor does not appear because we articulate it, and the agreement says this: "Articulate a private investor that accompanied by the participation of the public administration gives viability to the shipyard". If it's not a question of getting medals here. If you want to put it on the councilwoman, perfect, if not the lehendakari; I give the medals to anyone who wants it so long as the future and viability of the company is guaranteed. And the Socialists do not give lessons, Mr Becerra, do not be mistaken, do not give lessons. But it is true that we have a very clear thing and that is what our commitment is. I mean, I have that very clearly, and my commitment is not words in this rostrum, it is facts and for many years. Or do you think we've waited for them to tell me in this rostrum so that the Ministry of Industry has already begun to hold meetings? Or do you think the Ministry of Industry has not already met with the company committee? Or do you believe that the Ministry of Industry has not already had meetings with other people affected by this situation? Or do you think we're waiting for Podemos to think about telling us? No, the Socialists, for a long time, specifically with the company La Naval, have a sincere commitment, I have told you. We have always been behind them pushing in the direction in which they want us to go, and we will continue to do so. It should therefore not be wrong for him to have a compromise. What you would have to be is behind us too and pushing in the same direction with conviction, with sincerity, with belief that we have not run out of opportunity, that while there is life there is hope and still in the Naval we have life and playing time. That is why I am calling on that unanimity of the groups to ask the Government to redouble its efforts and to succeed in saving this obstacle in La Naval today as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Telllería is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u22	Good morning again. I, when we signed the unanimity yesterday, thought we were going to have a debate to be happy about this and it turns out not to be. The truth is that the entry of the proposer, Mr Becerra, has not made things much easier. Although I must thank Parliament that, although it has not physically meant much to me, I have learned to cultivate patience, as I said before. I domesticated my neurons. I was someone of sudden and now I've learned to settle down in reflection. However, there are times when I am about to be taken out of my mind, because that unanimity, Mr Becerra, in which you are so uncomfortable "I suppose because they are in the struggle of the Basque left in front of the abertzale left or whatever," he probably feels uncomfortable because he also has to sign or has signed with us. And he also said that, of course, that unanimity... that then appeared the ERE of extinction and that that has changed everything. When you signed up you had already read in the digital newspapers, the ERE of extinction. I knew it. I could have said, hey, let's put something else in! No, I mean, you always play with the half-truth here, half-pointing there, to try to design your argumentary, but you and we all knew about the ERE of extinction before signing, because we signed it at two o'clock in the afternoon or so. I mean, let's walk carefully. And then when I've done the reflection on whether the Navy does and why others don't, I've just said it like it's a reflection that needs to be done. I mean, we can make Ezkerraldea's presentation and say that Ezkerraldea is wrong, and that's objective, and that the Naval is fundamental in Ezkerraldea. It is fundamental and therefore requires special treatment, but perhaps if a study were made in Azpeitia it would come out that Xey is also strategic in Azpeitia, or Matz-Erreka in my village, in Antzuola. Depends. That is to say, at least we have to reflect on why here yes and here no. We will have to explain to society where we want to participate and where we don't, and what the reasons are. That's all I've said. When you go into publishing simply – which is what you have said, Mr Becerra, you have said it insistently and there is on the Internet, in the Northern Journal, an article of yours in which you talk about regaining public control. Public control is more than 50%, it is to publish. Less than 50% is not publishing, it is not public control. Just so you know. And on the other hand, I again claim the work the government has done to accompany. I'm still vindicting him. Sometimes the accompaniments triumph and no one praises, they are thought to have been other circumstances. Sometimes they don't end up initially well and on top of that they are accused of waiting for Godot, waiting for him to not know who and being in the void and being what did he say? Doubtful... a series of ratings... Doubtful? And you, Mr Casanova, who presented a PNL a year ago, gave us the cognac to get out of the emergency and you have waited a year to present it, that is questionable! That's dubious. So, everyone can get what they want out. I simply believe that the government will do well, that it is fighting for a partner and that when there is a partner, we will have to analyse what can be done. Because the partners that have now been, that you have talked about winning 50 million, the same partners won 50 million and then lost I don't know how much. The same, the same partners. Same partners. The same owners went from one thing to another. We'll have to analyze it. And if you are asking for compromise from others, I will take advantage of the fact that you are in a privileged situation, which has just concluded a budgetary agreement with the Sánchez government in Madrid. Why don't you ask him to publish La Naval with capital or to put more work on it? Since they're going to get the minimum wage up and I don't know how many things, this is a small thing compared to that. Do it if you have that commitment to the Sestao Naval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together for Podemos, EH Collect, Euskal Popular, the Socialists, and the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u24	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: As far as the Parlamentarian Group has been made, it's about "Successing "Auscan Momental." Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, representative of the American Basque Groups, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u25	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u26	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u27	Tourism has been an important economic activity for Spain and for the different corners and territories that make up it for many years, and has been recognized as such. In the spirit of highlighting and making visible the tourist resources that we have, already in its day the holiday of tourist interest was declared. It is in the transition that this structure is modified and, with this, the new competences make the honorary denominations change and hence come the holiday of national tourist interest, the holiday of international tourist interest and the holiday of tourist interest. And so we have been until the year 87, which comes out an order to declare these festivals of interest, and it is in 2006 when the festivals of national and international tourist interest are regulated and, in addition to many requirements, such as those of an antiquity, that they have a continuity in time, that they have rooted the festival today and that they have a citizen involvement, that they involve manifestation of cultural values and popular tradition, that they have importance as tourist attraction, it is declared or can be declared as a festival of national tourist interest if it has previously been declared a festival of regional tourist interest, this is the novelty. And the autonomous communities, over these years, have been regulating the festival of regional tourist interest so that the municipalities, governing councils, the government itself, motu proprio But in this autonomous community we have not done this. We are the only autonomous community that, after twelve years of having the possibility to regulate the festivals of regional tourist interest, we have not done so. The Organic Law of 1979 of 18 December of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, in its article 10.36, establishes that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country we have exclusive competence in this matter. In 2016, on 28 July, the Tourism Act was passed in this House, which says that "the Euskadi Tourism Administration will promote the specialization of the Euskadi tourism offer, promote tourism resources and promote tourism as a strategic sector and Euskadi as a tourist destination". I think it is very important, and we think it is very important from the People's Group, to refer to a reference to the preamble to the Tourism Act, which says that "tourism is a first-class economic activity that must contribute effectively to reducing inequality and promoting peaceful and inclusive societies". He also said that, as adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Tourism in Euskadi, "the importance of promoting the full and balanced participation of local communities must be respected and emphasized in sustainable tourism policies". At the moment, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is in inferior condition than the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain to be able to promote, the one who considers it appropriate, its festivals as parties of national interest or festivals of international interest. You will say to me: has there been interest on the part of anyone in these 12 years? I don't know. This deficiency came to us from some town hall and transferred it to us. And since it seems opportune for us to create opportunities or equal opportunities for anyone who considers it opportune, it seems to us that we are in the obligation or at least have the responsibility to regulate this festival of regional tourist interest, in order to provide equal opportunities with the rest of neighbouring communities, and with the environment and the rest of Spain. We believe that regulating the declaration of holiday of tourist interest of Spain in no case remains; we believe that it is a figure that allows us to put in value, as I said, our holidays in Euskadi and also in the rest of the world, Spain and worldwide. I think it is easy to understand, that it is opportune to regulate this party, the declaration of party of regional interest. We presented the initiative in this House, an amendment was tabled, because I believe that EH Bildu's initiative did not enter the Bureau in time and form and was therefore not accepted. We have also seen it, but it seems to us that it has little to do with the initiative that we are presenting, rather it has to do with the heritage and the bill that is being dealt with in this House. We therefore believe that on our amendment or initiative, together with the amendment submitted by the Government, we have reached an agreement, in which we say the following: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, within the framework of the Euskadi Basque Country 2020 internationalization strategy, its interdepartmental coordination bodies and the objectives of the Strategic Tourism Plan, to study the interest that the honouring distinction can bring to those festive manifestations that have a tourist potential in the Basque Country and that, as a result of this analysis, the procedure for declaring parties of interest to Euskadi those parties or events that imply cultural values, a notorious rooting in the popular tradition of Basque and a special importance as a tourist attraction is regulated". To say that, in fact, I, as the order says, the initiative can come from the municipalities, can come from tourism councils, wherever there are them, can come from the Department itself, and the important thing is that, as a result of that agreement or of that bet that can be made from a local level, it is the Autonomous Community that recognizes this festival or the declaration of this festival as of regional tourist interest, so that then, if they consider it appropriate, it will pass through some opportunities that this declaration gives it. I believe that the initiative to understand is quite simple and we believe that it is appropriate to do so. That is why we are bringing it to this House and why we hope that it will have the consensus or approval of all groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u29	Yes, thank you, President. Egun on, good morning, counselor, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposer's claim with her initiative is to regulate in Euskadi the declaration of holiday of tourist interest, in order to enable, moreover, if it is in the interest of the applicants, in addition to meeting the conditions laid down by the ministerial order, to make a declaration at national and international level. And we start from the fact that the holiday declaration of tourist interest is an honorary denomination. Between 1965 and 1987 it was given to celebrations or events that offered interest from the point of view of tourism, to promote mainly tourism and, above all, foreign tourism, which in that decade was an economic phenomenon in Spain. This name, the proponent said earlier, was created in 1964 and had two major restructurings. The one of 1979, when the three classifications are created, depending on the importance of the event: it could be international, national, or simply of tourist interest. And a second restructuring, that of 1987, which had to do expressly with the determination of the autonomous map of Spain and with the acquisition of competition in the field of tourism of what was the tourism field by the autonomous communities. That's when the holiday declaration of tourist interest is created, let's call it autonomous. The figure of the holiday of national and international tourist interest is regulated, it has also been said before, by the Order of 3 May 2006, in which its article 2.3 states that in order to be declared a holiday of national tourist interest it must be declared previously as a holiday of tourist interest by the autonomous community at the time of the application and have been declared at least during the five years immediately preceding. Moreover, Article 2.4 of the Ordinance states that a party whose declaration of international tourist interest is requested must, at the time of the application, have been declared of national tourist interest under the same conditions as the previous one, at least during the immediate preceding five years. And therefore, the declaration of a holiday as of tourist interest in Euskadi, and also its regulation, belongs exclusively to the competence of the autonomous community. It is therefore the responsibility of the Basque Government. And in this sense, the Basque Tourism Act itself, in 2016, points out that tourism is a top economic activity, which must contribute effectively to reducing inequality and promoting peaceful and inclusive societies. It also indicates that tourism will preserve current resources for future generations, ensuring the protection and integrity of our common, material and intangible heritage. And it is also said that tourism, in addition to its inherent cultural values, is configured as an activity of the services sector, which generates important economic benefits. And before this initiative, the Basque Socialists, together with the Basque Nationalist group, proposed an amendment that raised two things: to take into account, on the one hand, the strategy of internationalisation Basque Country 2020 and, on the other hand, the objectives of the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020, as this framework necessary to analyze, if it were interesting, the regulation of a procedure that was carried out, let's say, that regulated the declaration of holiday of tourist interest those parties or events that implied cultural values or a notorious rooting in the popular tradition of Euskadi and that were of particular importance as tourist attraction. And we did this approach of analysis of the initiative in that framework, because we consider and understand that it is necessary to coordinate this matter with the strategies, with the actions, with the lines and with the objectives that the Basque Government has set itself for the tourist field, both at the territorial level in Basquedi, and at the state level and at the international level, in order to give, where appropriate, a greater projection and weight to the interest of a declaration that exclusively today has an honorary interest. And why take into account the Basque Country internationalization strategy? Because the main objective of the tourism field for this XI Legislature is the development of the vision of the Basque tourist system, which coincides with the general objectives pursued by the Basque Country strategy. Because the strategy transcends the institutional, business, cultural or tourist approach that had traditionally led the outside activities of the territories, because it permeates all government departments on the issue of internationalization and because it involves society as a whole and the different economic and social actors, both public and private. With the tourist brand, in addition, Basque Country, we aim to promote those elements that uniqueize our destination as a basic reference element. And Basque Country, as a country tourism brand, is one of the ten goals that must be taken into account in order to achieve a main strategic objective, that of strengthening the internationalization of Basque Country. And in addition, the projection of Basque Country Basque is one of the pillars on which economic revival and job creation in Basque Country are based. And why, moreover, do we propose the analysis of this initiative, also within the framework of the strategic plan for tourism trade and consumption? Well, because the objectives for the development of Basque tourism in that 2020 horizon are embodied in the strategic lines of the Tourism Master Plan, which point out that, in common with Basque Country 2020, Basque Country's tourism governance will strive for the maintenance of culture and traditions. In addition, the direct impact of tourism and its impact on the rest of the economy will contribute to the generation of well-being in Basque society. And, also, tourism in the Basque Country, in its development, will be socially sustainable to ensure that its evolution is compatible with the ability to continue generating wealth. The new challenges of tourism are of great economic, social and political importance in the Basque Country. And the Basque Country strategy will consolidate a tourism activity driven by institutions with public and private actions that bring high value to those who visit Euskadi, who visit us, developing, in turn, the Basque Country brand associated with tourism. And the Basque Government, as it has proposed in its government programme and in the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, maintains its commitment to employ for the promotion in the autonomous, state and international market, the attractions of Basque festivals and events that imply a stake for the cultural or social values that have hooks, a value as a tourist attraction. And with regard to the Bildu amendment which could not be accepted for a matter of time, the Socialists do believe, and I would also like to record our position, we believe that their proposal was accepted in what is the amendment that we have tabled by the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, because their proposal to collect the category of festive events among the categories of intangible heritage that form the Basque cultural heritage of the Basque Autonomous Community to ensure their care and viability in the future is already enshrined in what is the Basque cultural heritage bill. Article 11 expressly confirms this. It is a bill that is at a stage of debate in this Parliament, but it is also that the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group have tabled various amendments to that bill, and among these amendments made, I have counted a minimum of five, sure there are more, in which we not only maintain that article 11 in which the festive acts are as intangible heritage, but the very purpose of that bill is a safeguard, a protection from the legal realm of the Basque cultural heritage, including intangible heritage. Therefore, those festive acts which are cultural values, which are rooted in the tradition or customs of Euskadi, are also protected, are also part of what is the amendment that we had tabled by the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, and which is also reflected in the amendment that we have had with the People's Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u31	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Chief of Parliament, all good days. They say that there by 1756 Voltaire defined the Basque people as the village that sings and dances on both sides of the Pyrenees. This is not surprising, since in the few 20,000 square kilometres occupied by this country, 250 years later there are more folkloric manifestations than in all of Western Europe in which we find ourselves. And many of those demonstrations take place in the surroundings of our parties. It is on many occasions in the surroundings of our festivals where our language, our folklore, our dances, our songs, where our cultural tradition, our verses, our indigenous instruments, our rural sport are manifested... It is at our parties that our txokos and societies are filled because gastronomy is also an important part of our culture. As he said from Gabriel Ares, many of you would have listened to Oskori: "It's the same for us for weeks and holidays, and we're making it a job to sing." I don't know if it's that bad, but it's true that our parties are a sign of our personality. In this country we celebrate absolutely everything, the battles that we win, the battles that we lost, we have religious, pagan, and immemorial festivals. Immemorial parties that have been since before yesterday. Because we have even political parties. Today we are considering whether or not to articulate a regulation in order to be able to declare our festivals, which we believe, as festivals of tourist interest of Euskadi. An apparently necessary step to be able to access the same treatment at state and international level. And if, according to Arestio, we're on the right track, let's know why. Why, above all, for what? Because what is the legal treatment of popular parties today? Well, a priori there is no explicit recognition in the Basque Cultural Heritage Act in 1990, nor in chapter V regulating ethnographic heritage. They are recognized as intangible cultural heritage in the State's 2015 Act for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage and, as Ms. Corcuera pointed out, they are also recognized or will be recognized as intangible cultural heritage in the Cultural Heritage Bill that is being worked on in this very Parliament. In our opinion, it does not make much sense to consider only popular festivals as a cultural heritage of tourist interest. The declaration of tourist interest should, where appropriate, be open to all the goods constituting the cultural heritage, real estate, furniture and intangibles. The caves of Ekain, El Puente Pengante or the Cathedral of Santa Maria, for just a few examples, could not they also be of tourist interest? In any case, it is up to the area responsible for tourism to assess the relevance of declaring tourist interest the goods that, due to their age, attractiveness, uniqueness, etc., want to stand out in the offer of cultural tourism of Euskadi. Hence, we have reached a compromise with the proposer so that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, the Department of Sailburu Retortillo, will analyze whether that which has not been necessary or useful in the last 40 years can be so today and whether this fits with the strategic challenges and objectives of which the department itself was endowed in the Strategic Plan of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption 2017-2020. And in this way, promote those elements that uniqueize our destiny, as a basic reference element for the positioning of the Basque Country tourist brand. All this we face, these objectives, avoiding massification and seasonalization. Hitting the target I have no doubt that our uniqueness must be one of the most influential axes in attracting foreign visitors. Moreover, this regulation, if it is considered relevant to its elaboration and implementation, must coincide and share objectives with the strategy of internationalization Basque Country, which, led by the Lehendakari, in its first paragraph states: "The constant geopolitical, social and economic changes that occur in the globalized world affect more than ever Basque society and Basque society. Internationalization has become a country challenge, because it allows us to face global challenges and capture new opportunities, preserve our identity and promote the well-being of society as a whole. Objectives such as enhancing the direct impact of tourism and its impact on the rest of the economy, contribute to the generation of well-being in Basque society. In addition, tourism in Euskadi, in its development, will be socially and environmentally sustainable to ensure that its evolution is compatible with the preservation of the quality of life of the citizenry and the ability to continue generating wealth, with comprehensive tourism planning that helps the distribution of flows throughout the territory and a new model of management and governance in Euskadi to manage the new challenges of tourism that are of great economic, social and political importance". In short, fulfilling what they left written with Iberian characters our ancestors in the Monument to the Outsides of Pamplona. " We of the Basques are no other Lord but God, who lodges in the back of us but in the yoke of the vines. Listen carefully, our children. " - No, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u33	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Egun on denoi, well, the 25 brave ones who stay and endure at this point. Today Mrs López de Ocariz has brought us to this House the proposal that the declaration of holiday of tourist interest be regulated in Euskadi. In the initiative initially registered by the Popular Group, the Basque Government was urged to grant this name to those festivals or events that involve manifestations of cultural values, notorious roots in the popular tradition of Euskadi, and which have special relevance as a tourist attraction. Let us do a little memory, as other speakers have done before me, and I am also convinced that all the Members of this House are waiting for the debate on this second item in today's plenary. It should therefore be remembered that the category of holiday of tourist interest was an honorary denomination given to celebrations, events that were held in the Spanish State between 1965 and 1987 and that offered real interest from the tourist point of view, in order to encourage tourism that in that decade was an economic phenomenon. This honorary denomination was created by Manuel Fraga Iribarne, then Minister of Information and Tourism, in 1964, but in this city he is better known as responsible for the murders of March 3. In 1987, as the previous speakers have already reported, there was a structuring by assuming the most competent autonomous communities and among them, those of the tourism sector. The Ministry of Transport, Tourism and Communications decided that festivals of tourist interest would become autonomous territorial, where they would be promoted much better, and that the declarations of festivals of tourist interest would be created at the autonomous level. And I'm going to save you the categories that have already been told, and in very detail, both Mrs. Corcuera and Mrs. López de Ocariz. Today, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, the Basque Country is the only autonomous community that does not regulate this procedure. And I know that, when you come to this point in the story, you are in a still life. Look, let me be frank with you, from my parliamentary group we have, on many occasions, publicly recognized all the positive aspects that tourism brings to society, which cannot be, nor is it, a problem. In any case, the problem is the tourist model. But we cannot focus Euskadi's tourism model on monoculture and monopoly, even if it is favored by action and/or omission by those in charge, more concerned with meeting the demands of lobbies than the needs and rights of the population. It is important that a party or event linked to the cultural characteristics of a particular place should have an impact on local economies and not create any setback for neighbours living in that place or in that municipality. That is to say, that it does not serve to justify the distribution of nominal subsidies or of certain public administrations, that it does not serve to allow me to express my opinion that they should set up four of their little bars and that they should do so to diversify and expand the tourist offer in Euskadi. And not to concentrate tourism in the same places, that the criteria are well established, that the popular food of any people is not declared of tourist interest and that it is important to those acts that put in value and strengthen the identity of a community, its expressions and those that mark our cultural wealth and our diversity. From Elkarrekin We have already pointed out that tourist activity accounts for 6% of the wealth of Euskadi, but that when it fosters tourist flows in an uncontrolled way it has a negative impact on Basque society. The increase in the rate of profit, let us not forget, is the dogma of every capitalist business, dogma that in the case we are dealing with implies a way of consuming the territory whose social, cultural and environmental consequences have been the subject of academic analysis and social protests for decades. Consequences that consciously forget the defenders and apologetas of tourism in Euskadi, with the Basque Government at the head, with a new economic manna from which will spring progress and happiness for all, forgetting by the way that the outsourcing of the economy that this implies is a good sign of their submission to the powers that really design the future of the countries in Europe. If something gives money it's untouchable, if something gives a lot of money it's sacred, that's how neoliberal logic works. It is not necessary to be a lynx to conclude that trusting the future to the perpetual and uncontrolled increase in the number of tourists is unsustainable. We want, as we have said on many occasions, to promote a model of tourism management that contributes effectively to the maintenance and protection of the cultural and natural heritage of Basque tourist destinations, that the objective is always sustainable development and that the socio-cultural authenticity of each destination and community is promoted, that relations be established with tourist business associations, with non-governmental organizations and with local producers and artisans of the different destinations. And now you are presenting the following compromise amendment which, by saving you time, I will not read to you, because I think you have already read it three times, and it has become quite clear to me. It should be pointed out that we have moved from urging the Basque Government to regulate, to study the interest, which is very much an expression of the Government. Unfortunately, we are already accustomed to using these expressions without real commitment in the initiatives undertaken and supported by the Government. The truth is that we are not very clear that the regularization of this denomination, seeing many examples that already exist, has a positive impact on Basque citizenship. We have a lot of reservations. For this reason, and for this reason, our parliamentary group will abstain, and we will continue to work for inclusive and inclusive tourism in the Basque Country, which will not exclude anyone, with a diversified offer and in line with all economies and pockets. And on that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we should focus the debates of the Department that Mr Retortillo leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u35	Thank you, ma'am, and good noon, good morning to all. I must confess that when we received this initiative, we weren't of much importance, and when a colleague asked me who was going to carry the subject, I said to him: "Me." And I added: "But it'll be a couple of minutes." Then, yesterday, when I began to prepare the subject and began to reflect on it, like most things in life, I came to the conclusion that there are things of weight behind it. And then we'd like to explain today why we don't protect the middle line you made. I'd like to fly north of Italy to Rome Square or Calava Bridge. You know that those who wish to spend at the present day must pass by spinning turns. Not always, when? On certain specific dates So many tourists are tourists, because it doesn't affect the neighbors because when there's too much tourists, these turns and doors will shut up, and, of course, the neighbors don't like to take such precautions from the mayor of the town, and they think that when they take such precautions, the city itself and their party are directed to tourists. And, besides, I think it's an illustration that they've seen the costumes they're talking about today in Venice, people dressed in tourists' suitcases with wheels, from their carnivals. But we don't have to go so far, and this time we can drive to Baiona and last year at weekends... Why on weekends? For a great many are coming from outside and also in the feasts of Baiona, they set an entrance to the people who came out of Baiona. For if all is done in the name of tourry, and other elements are not taken notice of, it is possible that these mascifications or generifications should be opposed to such a festival, or against these patriarchal elements. But we're getting closer, and I think it's a very paradigmatic example that I'm going to put after it. We have Elanchobes and Magdalenas around the year 2000. I used to drive buss with my gang to the Magdalens of Elanchibe, and then from the Araba, from Bizkai and from Gipuza, the buses came from Madrid and Andalucia. And let us remember that Elanchobe is the people who now have 360 populations, and then he had a little more inhabitants, but that at some of the Magdalenas there were twenty-two thousand people in the region round about him. And it is that in the most crowded editions of the Magdalena, as I said, they have approached Elantxobe, in a village of slightly more than 360 inhabitants, up to 20,000 and 30,000 people in its most participated editions. And that, if you want, without having an express internationalization strategy for it. A German television in his report called him the party of alcohol and sex. And not so many years ago it was a small celebration in terms of the number of people, who gathered the neighbors of the villa when the ships from Bermeo arrived at the port. I think we all know what's going on. And the example of Elantxobe, as I said, can be somewhat extreme, because that does not obviously happen in all peoples or in all the festivities of the peoples, but it seems to me very illustrative of how gentrification can pose a problem in terms of cultural values to be preserved and the maintenance of popular traditions and the experience that people have of them. And you come here today with an agreement on the tourist interest of these festivities and of what can contribute to the tourist industry the festivals of our villages, villas, cities, etc., that is, the popular festivals of the people as a means. Because, after all, that is what you are proposing. These popular parties, these people's parties, these people's festive spaces, what tourism potential they can have and what contribution they can make to the tourism industry and, above all, in economic terms. And they also entrust it to the Basque Country 2020, to the strategy of internationalization and consumption. And in this compromise amendment which you have signed and which consists of 10 lines and has no point, it is often difficult to know which is the subject of the prayer itself. But really, the heritage is not at the centre and the preservation and safeguarding of the heritage is not at the centre, nor is it important in that amendment. And in the end, when that happens to our legacy, this view may lead us to the very point of living into a power to consume everything. And besides, in the days of feasting, in the evening air, where the affairs of the place are compared for the year, and for the sake of the cohesion of men and of men. And so we don't agree with anyone who's behind this plan, we don't agree. For our part, because we defend a tolerable tourist, and feasts and festivals are not the best contexts of self-indulgence and endurance. But, besides, Mrs. Corcuera has mentioned the cause of the demand, we do not quite understand that we shall soon find the new law of the "Secal Autonomy." in this article. In this article, the procedure and examination of that protection will be made, in order to be able to register to each party and performance, and, besides, what may be prejudicial to this inheritance will be recorded on the tab. So we don't see any legs and legs asking for what you're asking for right now. Let us wait a little while until this inventory is done, and they will be able to receive it, perhaps for certain festivals, to give us a tourist potential which would be useful for certain events, for their salvation and survival. But in other cases it may not. And I think that the Tourism Department has no regard to that, or at least has not enough tools to measure and appreciate it. Then I think that the inventory is necessary, before it takes a few more steps, in that inventory, among others, the safety of the festival and the customs and traditions will be accepted. Because that's what's gonna happen, and we think it's supposed to be like that and we make one. To put and put forward the interest of safeguarding and valorising such assets ahead of other types of interest. We believe that the discussion of the festivals of the Basque Country is of another kind than that of the identity of the festivals of our peoples and cities, and of festival examples, but always of the people and people, and of the social function which they have before everything. So that's why we're not protecting the amendment or transaction that you signed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. By answering round, the representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Lopez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u37	Okay. Thanks to the Basque Nationalist group and also to the other groups for considering this initiative at least with respect, and I believe it has more depth than at times attributed to it. Mr Estarrona said, and I share with you that both the heritage law and the heritage bill that is being processed together with this initiative, from our point of view, are complementary, complementary, because you see it from an aspect where certain cultural festivals and values can enter. And I don't know whether the wine festival, or the cheese festival, or other acts can fit into that heritage as well. What's to be valued? Indeed. I am not going to say whether it has to be in the protection of the property law or in another protection of another law. It would be a decree to develop and that we, of course, do not object to it having different profiles, because I think they have them, the holidays. And if we talk about Holy Week or if we talk about other festivities that we can put in value, they also unite heritage values. And everything will have to be valued, of course. But we think we all have to play with the same opportunities. And that is what this initiative is about, that we have regulated just like our neighbours in Cantabria, Navarra or La Rioja, so that we have the same opportunities, promoting our holidays, our cultural values, heritage, indeed, but also the holidays. And if one goes to the declarations of feasts of national interest, since the holy weeks come out of almost all Spain, the carnivals of almost all Spain, many feasts related to the local product – the seafood, the Jerte for the cherry – I mean that there are many elements of much local value that are put on it, it is given this denomination to make a projection. And it seems to me that there is not only the party itself, but the element that we are celebrating, which is also a local value. That's why I used to refer to the declaration of sustainable tourism and promote the local, from the local up. I therefore believe that it is not contradictory and that one thing is complementary to the other. Therefore, it seems to me that we have to work in this direction, because it is the one that adds, remains, this is nothing short of the draft law that is being dealt with and the amendments that are being proposed. We believe that this adds up, that it is a complement, and that is why we believe that we should do it. It is true that we have not given urgency. No, because, in the end, we believe that what needs to be done is to make known to those municipalities the possibility of promoting parties under this protection, and if they wish, well, and if not, they have the opportunity for those who want to promote it. Or the Department itself can promote it by saying to a city council: "Hey, I think you have some values that can have an interest and that would be good." I think it is interesting to value it, and that is why this is the initiative we have put forward. And as for what the lady said, the spokesman for the group Podemos, Mrs García, that tourism is much more. Of course it is much more tourism and, in fact, in the documentation that must be provided, and that I have fixed, in the decree that regulates in Navarre, which is very close to us and very close to us, the origin, the date of celebration, the description of the acts that make up the festival, to which origin it dates, the popular tradition, the ethnographic value, the cultural, gastronomic, the tourist of the festival or the event in question, tourist infrastructures, equipment with which it counts the immediate locality or peripheral area in which it is celebrated for the reception of visitors. I mean, there's a list of requirements that I'm not going to take to a small space, I'm going to make a projection that you can't absorb. I think you're looking at yourself from a sustainable perspective. It's not wrong to remember. It's not wrong to remember it, I think it's necessary to remember it in every performance, because we usually forget it. And it's okay for me to remember. But I, who have taken Navarra's decree as a model, because it seems to me that since 2010, which is not 2018, it seems to me that it already collects, points to a way of acting respectful of the environment. Understanding that there are going to be parties of very small spaces or locality that cannot actually absorb certain promotion. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u39	Thank you, President. And briefly, to point out, first of all, that I can understand, although I do not share all the issues raised here by the two groups, both Elkarrekin Podemos and the Euskal Herria Bildu group. I understand that sometimes it may be difficult for one to reach an agreement or consensus. But in this question, which is true that it could seem simple, as Mr Estarrona said, in the end he has forced us all to turn the matter around. And at least for the groups that support the government and for the Basque Socialist Group in particular, more specifically, when we look at this issue, for us it had to be something more than a mere declaration or a regulation of a statement that had an honorary title, a party. Because things have to be given meaning and content, and greater projection. Hence, we mark this issue in the Basque Country 2020 internationalization strategy and also in the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption, because they are two areas that if regulation occurs, because that is considered by the Basque Government, that there is interest, and that regulation of the holiday declaration of tourist interest occurs, you can reach the last level, that is that of internationalization, but with a character not exclusively of tourist attraction, but for an objective, for something. Here, regular by regular we don't do anyone. It's about achieving goals. And in this case, that the tourism that has very clear and well defined objectives, that the internationalization strategy Basque Country, that also has its objectives, its strategic lines and its lines of action, are that framework where to set up and where to frame a party and the character of party of tourist interest, seems to us very opportune. Because it is true that tourism is acquiring a specific weight in Euskadi, it is true that we are all trying to ensure that there is no such massification and that cultural values, values of the roots of our festivals, let us say, of what tourism is. We do not want massifications, of course. What we propose is a sustainable tourism model from the first day, since the advisor presented in commission what were the strategic lines of his department. No one wants an unsustainable tourist model in Euskadi, no one. No one's working for that. On the contrary, means and actions are being put in place to make the Basque tourist model sustainable. And that is why we understand that it was necessary to give a framework, a content to that possible regulation of the holiday declaration of tourist interest. And I believe that among all of us, between the proposer and the groups that support the Government, we have managed to find that framework, where interest is really analysed and whether that regulation is compatible with the objectives that we have set ourselves in that framework of internationalization and also in that framework of tourism taking advantage of our holidays. For this reason, I wanted to thank the proposer for her initiative, which initially seemed very simple, but then it is true that she has played a certain game, because she also puts the various departments of the Basque Government to work. This is not only a matter for Mr. Retortillo's department, the Retortillo advisor, but also for other departments to intervene through the Basque Country internationalization strategy. We reiterate our interest in the need to frame this proposal in these two major strategic plans, in that internationalization strategy and in the tourism strategic plan. And what I was saying at first, when I read your amendment, because then I was late to see that I was not admitted, I am surprised, because I understand that the holidays today and the festive acts have other values, not merely the festive. And at least they expose and project another set of local or regional values, and I think it is necessary to give them content as intangible heritage in the bill. It seemed important to me, and as I saw that that was already questioned in Article 11, I did not understand your amendment. And as well as this draft law, what is intended is to give a legal sphere, a legal regulation to the guardianship, to the safeguarding of the Basque intangible cultural heritage, because I did not understand it very well either, and I believe that in this amendment that we have had sex there is that safeguard, that guardianship and that legal protection, which I share with you, as far as the holidays, in fact, are increasingly massified but are determined and counted on the days when we sometimes have to bear massifications, but which on many occasions do not have to do with tourism because neither does the sphere sometimes give us for all the holidays. And that would be the case. Not all parties in Euskadi could at the time have the need for a holiday declaration of tourist interest. It would be for other kinds of events and not all the parties, each and every one of the parties, that exist in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u41	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. In a short time, Mr. Estarra, as a bad student, you told us yesterday that you had begun to prepare the subject, and today I thought you did not pay much attention to us, for the measures we've suddenly put in are exactly what you're about to do. I mean, we just don't just want to make a process of "Felica Turística" without any clothes on it, and that's why we put it on the one hand from Turism, Konstimus, and the Strastal Plant of Komerzi, I don't know how to say it, that saveard, and, on the other hand, of the Euskadia Basque Country strategy. Berriro irakuriko dut lehen esan doubiana: "Tourism in the Basque Country in its development will be socially and environmentally sustainable to ensure that its evolution is compatible with the preservation of the quality of life of citizens and the ability to continue generating wealth". Therefore, I now add: If these circumstances do not occur, it is logical that the Department of Tourism does not enter that qualification. That is that the commission that we are doing to them today is not that we directly regulate this that was asked in the initial proposal, but that they study whether they can really regulate it according to what they say both their strategic plan and the Euskadi 2030 strategy. I used to say that in my first intervention. It gives me the feeling that declaring only the holidays as a tourist good is short. I think we should also take into account all cultural assets: real estate, furniture, intangibles... There are festivals or demonstrations, let's say, of a festive type, of a folkloric type, which are not understood without their nearest surroundings. Therefore, I believe that all this should be kept or safeguarded in this transaction we have proposed. En cualquier caso, I don't know, it's lucky that it's not Venice, is it not Baiona, is it? It's my doubt now that when I go to Baiona's holidays, I'll be a tourist, if I get the same treatment when I go to St. "Poo cineto, mucho más diversitos en mi optinión que los de Venecia." I haven't said it in my first place, but we are quite satisfied with what you've set up about the law. And I think you've got enough work to do with our teammates, and you're going to do well on the patrimony immitator, because today we've seen a similar opinion about this matter. But things don't always get mixed up. It's not always possible to confuse touristism and culture and touristism and festivals. Every one will have his own camps, and that is what we ask of the Government to-day: to develop, if so, a rule, where the principal lines of these matters are well regulated, is it not? You don't always have to mix things up. An example, in order to give a definite example, I'll make tourism tomorrow, but I won't celebrate a festival. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Together, Podemos, Mrs. García must not speak. Mr. Estarrona is your word, representing EH Collector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u43	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Of course, what happens, Mr Grajales, is that the term sustainability is very prostituted, because what for you is sustainable, for us, as large infrastructures that are being built in this country, is not so sustainable. Therefore, talking about sustainability and saying that with that is assured the character of our holidays, popular in some way, well, that they are safeguarded, to me it seems to me that for nothing can be it and less with the lines that you have read me of that strategy of tourism Euskadi-Basque Country. Mrs López de Ocariz, it is true, I give you the reason, they can be complementary, but they are also complementary, for example, a company that has a product for sale and then the marketing and sales department. And what can't be is that we first set up the marketing and sales department without knowing very well the need for that product and the demand that that product is going to have, or how that demand will affect that product, and that's what you're doing here today. That's what they're doing here, complementary yes, but first let's talk about the product, let's see what need that product has, and let's see if it really has a tourism potential and if, in addition, for the safeguard of that product and to keep its valuable original elements, it can really come to be within what can be an internationalization and enhancement strategy from a tourist point of view. And, Mrs. Corcuera, it's not hard for me to reach an agreement. Euskal Herria Bildu has no difficulty in reaching agreements, we have no problem in agreeing, what happens is that we only agree when we consider it to be positive. And to us this, what is being requested of the Basque Government today seems to us to be a mistake and seems to us to be a mistake in the package. And that is why we are not going to support this compromise amendment or the agreement that you have reached. Because you say again that you don't know what I don't understand about the compromise amendment. We are not talking about safeguarding that heritage, we are not talking about the protection of that heritage, about what parties can assume as intangible cultural heritage for our peoples, cities, etc. and their people, we are not talking, we are not talking, we are not collecting any measures. That is, parties are used as a means and as a tourist potential, and that is what is put and what is prioritized. Therefore, and he has read it again and reread it again and, I say again, in a prayer of 10 lines, without any point, for well, I find it very difficult to really discern where it is put... It makes me difficult, it's true, and I don't understand it, but it's that I've reread it again and read it for the sixth time and, really, I think it's not picked up as you stand. To the article to which you refer – article 11 – is then added in the Cultural Heritage Act, in chapter 3 of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, article 57 on the Regime for the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage, which states in its point 2 that the regime for the protection of declared intangible cultural property must indicate the corresponding conservation, promotion and dissemination measures that will apply to it. That is, before this law comes into force, on which there is a very majority agreement in this House, and it seems to be going to be in a short period of time, before it is collected and regulated in this law on the conservation, promotion and dissemination that will apply to that heritage, before that, you are asking the Basque Government to put in place a plan to enhance these holidays. They're doing it, they're doing it, I'll read the amendment again, if you want, for the sixteenth time, but they're doing it. And then in article 58 he talks about maps of intangible cultural property, which are finally going to be the goods they have to make for the safeguarding of intangible cultural property, and within that are the traditions and festivals of the peoples. And before they have that good and that inventory of goods and holidays and festivities, knowing that they have to meet certain requirements and knowing that their conservation, their promotion and their dissemination will be collected, before they have the inventory of that good that the Department of Culture and the Department of Heritage have to do so, in that they are experts, the Basque Government, the Department, is urged to consider what festivals can have a tourism potential, always putting the interests of the tourism industry before the interests of our own heritage and its uniqueness. And then, and lastly, in the sixth point of this same article, he talks, and it is also that it is written expressly and I think it is important to emphasize that these assets should be safeguarded, that they should include measures for conservation of promotion and dissemination that are deemed appropriate and contribute to the dynamism of the affected carrier communities, not only economically, but fundamentally social and cultural. And that is why Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to support his amendment today, because it puts forward the interests of the tourism industry and tourism and what that can bring to the tourism industry, in the face of the interests of safeguarding and maintaining our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. End of discussion, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists, the middle-class correction signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the pros, 46; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u45	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "Phum up another proposal made by parlamentary groups of people, concerning creating a certificate of equality for enterprise. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mrs. EH Collect Group's representative, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u46	Good noon, everyone. This is News 2018. One: "Seven of the new 160 workers that have been introduced to Beaain and Irun are only women." The 18th article of a contract with an equal opportunity plainly indicates the willingness of women to go to work. According to what he says, "If the new contractation of women and the number of candidates is possible, at least at least 25% of the professions, which is in the workshops, it shows the will to improve the ratio." 400 women were introduced, but only seven were selected from the new 160 employees. Bigarren albistea: "Only 25% of the new agreements include equal pay measures. There is little use of public negotiation, even less of which contains measures to combat women's precarious work, not even 20%." Three: "The number of women who charge less than 1,000 euros doubles that of men". Four: "Labour discrimination against women escapes the Labour Inspectorate. In 2017 135 companies were punished, which account for just 0.1% of all the labour sanctions they impose." Five: "It is not only for the sake of the same labour, but rather it is forbidden, as the laws of equality say. There is not a want of laws, but of political will to be carried forward by the laws which they agree with." Eta Azkena: "Only 17% of equality plans achieve results in Spanish companies". News of 2018. I could give more data and headlines, but I think we've understood the idea. Companies, as of some of the most important authors of society, are extremely anxious to promote inequality, or to change it. And what we brought here is a constructive proposition, a positivist and necessary. Because it's not worth the rest of the world. We need new ideas so the 2018 headlines won't be repeated in 2019. Maybe they're not the best ideas, maybe anything else would work, we should do anything else, but we have to try. It's an experiment that we've brought here, we've been asking to create a certificate which, with the help of operators and experts, should have given the least of the necessary observances. And though you always say that we are punished, we propose to reward those who hold themselves as prizes in public contracts. And you'll say no to that today. We've tried a lot, and the middle-class one that's signed with Podemos shows that. This certificate, which now exists, is combined with that "Extidad Colatora Para Iguand." Please consider the original proposals, those you have here, and the two middle-class ones you've got. Jarraituko dugu ala ausartuko gara? Do we follow or dare? We must get the universal frame of this life, which multiplicity does not suppose to be inequality or a separation. In this system, instead of being in the centre of human beings, economic profits are established. These revenues are opposed to living, they want to abolish the differences of persons, and to encourage violence in the circumstances. We women have not only had to respond to the Prefect for the past few years. It's a long time since the social and generic crack caused by capitalism. Besides this, we must also answer the consequences of the reductions. As the Marches of the Basque Country, and as I have often brought it here, poverty and prevarication are women's faces. It's about horizontal and vertical segregation. Horizontal implies that wages are worse in situations where women are concerned, and the vertical refers to the familiar glass roof. It has been proved, and as it was expressed on the first news, women are judged far more sharply at the time of resistance and promotion. At the moment we're getting out of the crisis, the profile that's getting the head out of the hole belongs to the man and with a big quote. If we look at last year's data, the crack of the IRPF settled in 8.397 euros of the year. One of the reasons is that of the horizontal segregation of the men's unemployment, because the bladderd sectors during the crisis had a lot of retrograde and so, with the production of most jobs in the industry, it's gone down by man's unemployment. And the other, because precocious female sectors will remain in this situation, first and now. It's the domestic workers' case, for instance. Or at first we were talking about this news in an industrial company, a small share of women. And that is why we have brought here a certificate which should be placed in the centre of the task of the enpresities, and which is in the middle of the task which enpreseurs have, and which we ask to make a tour of what is at the moment, or to continue in the same manner, in order that these women should remain in the prevarication, we keep everything in the same position, or we dare to do so. We dare to stand up for social justice, we dare for a just society, we dare for a policy that will keep people in the centre, we dare to identify and determine certain foundations that must be executed, and, besides our will, we determine the least, or everything will remain the same. Today, you vote for the same as everybody else. We want to transform everything, and we'll continue to vote for it, to dare, to slip, to fall, and to continue the journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours. Mr. HERNAN, M. HIDAL: Yes, thank you. Good morning, congressmen. The initiative proposed to us by the EH Bildu group, from our coalition, when we heard about it and knew it, seemed a good initiative. We thought it was timely, we thought it was a good idea. Maybe not new, but it's a good idea. And precisely because it is not new, we understand less that it has been possible to reach a majority agreement for the initiative to move forward. Because, moreover, we think, because of the discussions that we held this morning by all the groups in the House, that the initiative could have gone ahead with the different contributions of the different groups. We were making a full amendment to include a couple of issues. First, to give more content to the requirements that we believe must have a certificate of equality for companies, we thought it was good that we included a number of requirements, for a fundamental question: the certificate has to serve, or we think it should serve, and if it would not surely have a limited journey, to establish a cut-off line between companies. That is to say, for us the interesting thing about the proposal to have such a certificate is that for companies it means a cut line, between companies that have the certificate and those that do not, that we think it is the main difference that can add with what currently exists, with the title known as the Collaborating Entity for the Equality of Women and Men, to which Mrs Etxebarrieta has referred. It seemed to us, too, that we agreed that if we were to deal, we would leave this title, modifying it, but going beyond a simple name change. It is not a question of changing the title Collaborating Entity to that of Certificate, but rather of changing the contents, the requirements, and for what it will serve so that, in fact, it can assume a cutting line for the companies, which is what we and we find interesting. We therefore included, on the one hand, a series of contents, in particular, in obtaining the certificate to ensure the balanced presence of women and men in occupational groups and categories. This is very important in order to combat discrimination and inequality in the world of work, because it is mainly women who usually have specific occupational categories and then develop day-to-day work corresponding to other categories, always higher. They always have a category recognized in the contract and in practice do higher-level jobs. It also happens in the case of many men, but it is mainly women who suffer from this discrimination. Of course, we included real wage equality, and we added the issue of corporate advertising, which is finally written to meet the Begira decalogue, which we agree with. A number of issues that we thought it was good for them to meet the requirements for a company to be able to access this certificate. And then, secondly, we were mating or adding, although it was in some way already in EH Bildu's original proposal, some of the questions as to what that certificate has to do. On the one hand, in the private sphere of business activity, so that it is a tool that companies can use in their promotion, that it is seen by customers and by society in general that certificate as indeed a cutting line, that we see that this company has this certificate, that this company meets the criteria of equality that this company demands, but that this company that does not have this certificate, does not meet, does not have criteria of equality. And, in particular, in the area of public procurement, where we can act, because it seemed important to us, and it is finally written here, that it is incorporated as a priority clause of equality in public procurement, and even we added: "or in order to obtain any kind of aid and subsidies". And someone might find this exaggerated. I think it is not, and I think that even some of the groups that are not going to support the transaction we have reached EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, I think that even some of those groups actually agree with this issue. And we also find this very important, precisely to establish that cut-off line, for companies to see themselves in the obligation to have this certificate, because that is or may be the difference with what currently exists. We do not just want companies to have in their good will the intention of being partners for equality between women and men. We want to establish a certificate that discriminates between companies that meet criteria and companies that do not. A certificate that serves to ensure that companies that comply, have the approval of society and public administrations, and companies that do not comply do not have the approval of society or of public administrations. And therefore, that companies that do not comply have difficulties and see themselves in the need to meet a number of requirements and access that certificate, because it seems to us to be the most effective way to combat inequality between men and women. We think that we cannot leave everything to the goodwill of both companies, because we see that in real practice there will be those who are willing to address equality in the environment of their companies, but there are many who are not, because they will not be among their priorities, because, as has already been said, the priorities in the field of business, fundamentally, are economic and of business benefit. Well, we thought we could have come to an agreement. We believe that the most reticent group to the last offer being made by the proposing group was the People's Party, and we regret that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have not reached an agreement with, in this case, the proposing group and also with us, with Elkarrekin Podemos, that we were working on it. And I'm going to give Mrs Etxebarrieta the reason. The transaction that is going to lose today was the transaction that allowed us to take big steps, to move forward and, instead, the one that is going to be approved will simply allow us to continue doing what was done, that we are not going to say that it is wrong, but of course that it is insufficient and that we think that we could have taken a much greater step. We regret that the initiative does not come forward. We thought it was a really good initiative and we regret that it could not go forward, because we really think that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, for what they and they themselves have told us, were practically, I will say, according to what those of the group on this side of the House are going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u49	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Please note, Mr Hernández, whether this group wanted to move forward and make significant progress on what is currently in place to promote the reconciliation of working, family and personal life in the business sector, because this group is also fully convinced that in order to make real progress on equal opportunities in a society and that society is more just, real progress must be made on conciliation. And that is a conviction that we take as a party and of course we believe it and, therefore, our initiatives are aimed precisely at guaranteeing that equal opportunity, for which conciliation is absolutely essential. And I tell you to move forward, because if you, as you have also read well the proposal of the People's Party as reflected in the whole amendment tabled, we put forward two very concrete proposals. One of them is to empower the Concilia portal to configure it as an affective tool and accompaniment to companies. This portal currently exists, but it is a portal and, according to the information that we have collected and that has been sent to us, it is clearly improveable and not very well known. And, therefore, we consider and share the testimonies that we have been told, that it is a portal that is fine but that is not really effective for companies in the area of conciliation. And that is why, at our first point, we had expressly stated that this portal should be enhanced, which we already have, that is, a tool that we have already configured but actually put it at the service of companies, but as an effective tool that really supports and accompanies companies in this advisory work in these areas. And look at whether we wanted to move forward and make significant progress, that in the second point we were talking about creating the distinctive Euskadi Council, which, moreover, is an initiative that we have already brought to your full debate on the motions for resolutions discussed in the family plan. And I would like to remind you that it did not have much acceptance on the part of the parliamentary groups and I do not think that this proposal differs very much in what the proposal is. Yes on the content, and I think that was one of the reasons why it was not possible to reach an agreement. We propose the creation of a distinctive Euskadi Council for self-employed, SMEs, large enterprises, which implement measures that promote and guarantee equality and reconciliation. It has drawn my attention to the fact that you focus only on equality. Yes, they are issues that are very close together, but I think we cannot forget the word conciliation and you too have forgotten it in your text. That is why I think it is not fair, Mr Hernández, to say that other groups have not wanted to move forward, because if you stick to the strict content of the amendment of the People's Party, by enhancing the Concilia portal and creating a specific badge, I believe that these are significant advances. Finally, we have reached an agreement with the government party, because we understand that the parties supporting the government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party also wanted to move forward. It is true that there has also not been an approach to accepting the two points in their entirety. Yes, one of them, from the People's Party. But we understood that although there were points that coincided with the whole amendment proposed by the groups that supported the Government with the original initiative and the amendment tabled by Podemos, the whole amendment that the Government had tabled was more correct. We think it adapts more to what we have. This group understands that it has to be an impulse of real conciliation, but not with making toasts to the sun that can look very nice in a rostrum, but with issues that can really be put into practice, issues that signify progress, issues that signify commitments, but commitments in the first place for public administrations. That is why I remind you again, that is, there are also tools at present, we have that Concilia portal to which I have referred, but it is not currently a reference tool for companies when seeking advice on equality. Therefore, I think it is right to move forward, we need to propose new things, but we also need to propose things that are absolutely feasible and we also need to try to improve the instruments that we already have on the table, which can really be absolutely timely and appropriate for the subject we are dealing with. And then, I think it is an issue that has been forgotten to you in the signed amendment and in the proposals put forward, that is – and it is an issue that has also been brought to us when we talked about these issues with the groups really involved and affected by these situations – the gap between the companies themselves. I believe that we cannot talk and we cannot direct the same measures and the same "requirement" to large companies that have more facilities to implement conciliation measures and specific spaces to establish, for example, a nursery, which can be a reality in a large company, than to companies that are small, SMEs, which is by the way the majority of the business fabric we have in Euskadi. I believe that this distinction when it comes to implementing measures is absolutely necessary to take account of it, and I therefore believe that we have not been able to reach an agreement in the end. On this occasion it has been so, but, well, we have been close and I do not think that the proposals of other groups can be disqualified either, because what you really wanted is to make significant progress on conciliation, equality, but with concrete proposals and above all with proposals to improve on what we currently have and also to implement that seal Council which I really do not think is very different – Euskadi Council, that seal – from its certificate, which is the objective of establishing a seal, but yes, clear on the content of the seal and on how you want to demand it from companies. I would also like to say that here, as far as the implementation of the stamp is concerned, the approach that Podemos and EH Bildu take is quite different from the approach that the People's Party has and, of course, I respect its approach, but I also hope that you will respect mine. We have therefore reached a compromise agreement, which is based on the two paragraphs of the amendment of the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party, which are fully taken up. We believe that this support must continue to be given to businesses, that companies must be helped to carry out the diagnoses and plans for equality and also to explore ways with specific actions for reconciliation and such plans for equality. And here again I turn to the subject of the different typology of the companies we have in Euskadi. It should be remembered that 80%, if I remember correctly, are SMEs and are small businesses, small businesses, self-employed, small businesses. And on the other hand, we already have the collaborating entity for the equality of women and men that is regulated in Royal Decree 11/2014 for the equality of women and men. And I think that this is also where we need to continue working, because it is already an instrument that we have and, therefore, if it is a useful instrument and there are issues that can be improved in relation to this instrument, I believe that the Basque Government has to deal with an instrument that we already have with concrete proposals for improvement. And, therefore, they are the two paragraphs that we have already understood that are fine with the amendment of the whole of the PNV and the Socialist Party, which did not propose any more instruments either, but did propose to make progress on the instruments that we already have. And, on the other hand, we have the proposal from the Concilia portal which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we are dealing with is that it is an effective tool, which we believe it is not now, a really useful tool for companies in terms of support and support and in terms of conciliation and equality. And, therefore, I also thank all the groups, because I believe that there has been a spirit of agreement, but there have been differences that we have not been able to remedy, especially the groups of the Government with which it has been possible to reach this agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u50	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u51	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Indeed, we could have reached an agreement and the truth is that we would have been able to sign the five groups the same text. Because I believe that we share the general philosophy, although then the part of how to translate it, of how to write it, I believe it has been what has prevented unanimity on this occasion in this non-legislative proposal. Of course, the Socialist Party shares the need for that certificate of equality for businesses and I believe that the history of political parties supports where we are and the ideology that each one defends, what we all have clear, the history that we have and those that have others. Equality policies are increasingly present on the agenda and on the agenda of this Parliament and today, through the non-legislative proposal of the EH Bildu parliamentary group, we are discussing equality in the field of enterprise. Equality between men and women, in terms of access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions, is also a fundamental principle, of which we not only speak in the Basque Country, not only in the Congress of Deputies, but also in the European Union, in Community directives on equal treatment between men and women, and which has also been developed in our legal system with a socialist law for the effective equality of women and men, a law developed by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero. Despite the legal obligations and the progress made, not without difficulty – and here the work of the feminist movement must be recognized – in recent years experience shows the difficulties women encounter in achieving effective and real equality in the different fields and especially in the workplace. Article 50 of Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March on the effective equality of men and women already provided for the creation of a business badge on equality for enterprises that highlight the implementation of policies on equality between men and women in working conditions, in organizational models and in other areas, such as business services, products and advertising. Therefore, as Mr Hernández said, it is not a novel initiative, but it is true that it is important that what has already been approved in Spain a few years ago we can transpose it into politics and day-to-day Basque politics. The Royal Decree on Distinctive Equality in Businesses was adopted in 2009. The Decree provided for the designation of the equality mark, the procedure and conditions for granting it, the rights and powers deriving from obtaining it, and the conditions for institutional dissemination of the undertakings obtaining it and the equality policies applied by them; it would establish the procedures for monitoring the maintenance of these conditions to justify the granting or withdrawal of such conditions in the event of failure by the undertaking to comply with those conditions. Among the most relevant aspects is balanced participation between women and men in decision-making areas and access to higher-level positions; the establishment of updated criteria, remuneration systems and occupational classification to enable equal evaluation of the work performed by women and men; actions to facilitate the reconciliation of the family and work and professional life of all persons, establishing general objectives, articulating flexible measures to enable them to adapt to the diversity of needs, situations and shortcomings that may arise in the staff of the enterprise, as well as the adoption of equality plans and the non-sexist advertising of the services or products of the enterprise. We believe that this is a mark of excellence in equality, which will also serve as a stimulus and recognition for those companies committed to equality and which highlight the implementation of policies of equal treatment and opportunities in working conditions. Because, although women's participation in the economy is increasing and the number of women in high-ranking positions has continued to grow in recent years, we understand from the Basque Socialist Group that the progression is too slow, despite the fact that the number of graduates of education in recent years exceeds 60% of those who each year graduate from our universities. The justification for the original initiative of the EH Bildu group mentions the wage gap and some of the consequences of this gap. It has been analysed that women need to work 52 more days a year to collect the same amount as a man and, of course, we understand that this is one of the outstanding subjects, which from the business world should start working with a final goal, which is the full equality of men and women. We understand that the Basque Government has it on its political agenda, and one of the points that EH Bildu and Podemos are going to raise in their compromise amendment will surely be one of the measures that the Government puts in place when it comes to the issue of the wage gap. This same year, on March 7, 2018, when the People's Party was still ruling in Spain, the PSOE presented in the Congress of Deputies a bill to guarantee equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in employment and occupation. That project, among other things, reflected the fact that companies that did not comply were subject to sanctions and we continue to share the spirit of that proposal. That law, despite good intentions, rights, also obliged, and took into account, as I say, the corresponding sanctions. In this line, now ruling the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, through a law announced a few weeks ago by Minister Calvo, she wants to force by law women to hold leadership positions in companies. I am starting from the fact that we all in this House share the desire for real equality and not the only equality in speeches; I am starting from the fact that we want to move from words to facts and also to obligations to the business world, always in the hands of collective bargaining and trade unions, of course, counting on those collectives, as I say, who are the feminist world and also those organizations that work in the family sphere. I also hope that we share the need to put in place concrete measures to combat the wage gap, to achieve that goal as simple as "Equal work, equal pay", while working for conciliation must be another of the achievements to be pursued, seeking co-responsibility, avoiding what until today we women live when we decide to be mothers, sacrificing, in many cases, professional life. Three parliamentary groups have signed an amendment, which Mrs Garrido has already tabled. We could probably have gone further. As I have started my speech, I wish we had been able to achieve unanimity, because, as I say, I believe we share the general philosophy. And today, in addition, an initiative has been adopted in Madrid, which is the equalisation of maternity and paternity leave, which I believe is also shared by the majority of parliamentary groups, but not by all. And it is a further example, coupled with the proposal of Minister Calvo, that, of course, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and, here, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, do not have the objective of achieving real equality in all areas that have to do with life, nor, of course, in the area that Bildu brings us today to discuss, which is what it has to do with companies. As I say, I think it has been a more drafting problem than from another point of view and, of course, this Member would have liked to have been able to reach unanimity. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u52	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. The original proposal was to create a certificate of equality for companies. For our part, at the time of today's detailed discussion, the 11th of February 11th, Decree 11th, "The Collaboration of Women and Men for the Equality of Men," has been the foundation of the testimony. For, though in the original proposition it is necessary to create a certificate of equality, yet it is now founded on this Decree, which is now mentioned, as a confession, as a co-worker to the equality of women and men. By this confession, the conditions which enable women and men to render equality possible, and which enable them to remove obstacles which hinder equality. And on the side of the social equality of opportunity and trade, the initiatives that may arise in society and in the field of work will be encouraged. And I don't want to miss the opportunity to highlight this instrument at this moment, confessing that there is a margin to improve it forever. And the corporations still have a lot to do on their side, and it's very important that they participate in them. We signed a medium with the Basque Socialists and the Basque Popular Corps. In this medium, the other requires that this Decree should continue to work on this confession which has been mentioned, and that in public contract, they should receive more clauses of equality, and support the enpresions of equality and diagnosis. And as we're talking about the correspondent contact, as Mrs Garrido has remarked, in the field of equality, one of the most fundamental grounds, as in the third point, we ask Concilia, the support of which is now the interest of fun, as an effective means of assistance to be able to communicate to the authorities. Our group has a positive attitude, agreed with the agreement which we have made today, although the half-path seems short, for the concepts which it has penetrated have a long development, which fixes the direction on the way to obtain an actual and effective equality. At the present day, in a particular circle, in the business world and in the public contract, but the important step, as I always say, is, that every day we work together, the steps that gradually advance brings us nearer to the equality of men and women. EH Collect and together Podemos signed another half-way. We're not going to protect him today, logically, because we have to protect our middle course, but I'm sorry to say this because we've been close to getting a big deal. It was not at last possible, in content, in the secret, that all the groups which we make this legislature agree, but unfortunately, I am afraid, because we have not invented it with the proper reaction of the different positions of different groups. The landlady used to say that in her participation we will vote today whether we continue the same way or advance. I don't share that, we don't see it that way. Between your two teams, the Basque Country, and together in the medium signed between Podemos, contains a number of actions, in a short way, our mediums. When you take the 11/2014 Decree itself and read it, many characters appear in it in a very exact manner, all described. We share those who aren't picked up and I've already confessed this to all the teams this morning. And the Eusk0's already on, or they're already working on that thing. So all of these determine the direction of new progresses in the Eucharin world of equality, although unfortunately they do not come to an agreement with one mouth today, they do not accept that agreement. The way the content and the groups have to take in the same direction, this is seen at the present time as positive. And though, as I have said, you may not explain what you receive in your medium, because it is in a shorter way, and is committed to that which is not in a summary manner, and you know that she is working on it, so that we all go forward today. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. At the turn of the answers, Mrs. Housemaid, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u55	Thank you. First of all, to say hello to Mr. Hernandez of the Podemos, because I did not say it in the first round, thanks for the full correction. As I have already shown in his time, I believe that he defined the idea which we had at first, and also in the public, I think it is important, and very positive, to say what we have made, and what we have obtained from it. So thank you on that side. Alderdi Popularrari, Garrido andrea, ez dakit akordioa irakurri ote duzun, badakit baina egiten zaio aipamena kontziliazioari eta, hasteko eta behin, lehenengo puntuan bertan esaten da "For the granting of the same will be taken into account, among other criteria,...". And it begins to name criteria, by chance, it begins with "that it elaborates and develops plans of reconciliation co-responsible of personal, family and work life". Point number one of point number one. We talk about conciliation, we give it importance, yes. It is not the only thing that this seal speaks of, it is not the only thing that this proposal speaks of, because we believe that talking about equal work, in this case of the wage gap, of equal work, against the precariousness of women... it speaks of conciliation, but it has to talk about many other things. And he goes on to say, "Let him have equality plans and take steps towards their fulfilment." The measures of association are also introduced in the plans of equality, and I have shown you that these habits of equality do not develop, and that they developed only in a 17%, and that they gave a preliminary step in their earlier engagement. Then, of course, we attach importance to the union, but today we were talking about creating a certificate of equality for business, not of something that spoke only of association, and we also indicated that we were ready to add to that third point of the Council of Concilia. And I'll make a suggestion for you. What you want to do from your right, but I think we can talk about it and there is something in it. You made another proposal as well as if it were correct. But we didn't only talk today about association, we talked about determining equality in the company we talked about, we developed equality. Of course, it's a culture, but it was a lot more than that. It is not only the women who are concerned with contacting our personal and familiar life, or the question is not only in this, but we are more and more women, and I believe that this is the case, not a delay, at least a certain beginning, which we wanted more. Eta well, "brendis to the sun" are duzu, ez dakit nik "brendis to the sun"-etik zer daukan ziurtagiri bat eskatzeak. Heinera, adierizi den moduan, guk have been ziurtagiri berri bat sortzea eskatzen genuen eta esaten zaigu existitzen of her "the collaborating entity for the equality of women and men". That's exactly what I'm saying. "Benga razoia, goazen horri heldu eta horri buelta bat ematera." Eta horregatik proposeatzen dugu "that they be taken into account, among other criteria, and we will not define what they have to be, because we believe, and therefore the second point, that the analysis and the re-adaptation, if appropriate, of the criteria that today are in Decree 11/2014 have to be made by the experts in this matter. And precisely because of what you were saying, because all companies are not the same and all can't be asked the same thing. There will be other people much more expert than the ones we are here, some will have to know where it should be thrown, but that it should be them and they who decide how it is done, with Emakunde, with experts, with feminist experts, with trade unions and with companies. I don't think this is a toast to the sun. It seems to me that for once, because we usually talk about precariousness in general, but today we were bringing a very concrete, very concrete proposal, which is not new, I agree, it is not new at all, because, well, I think we have to be able to learn from the good that is around and to, if possible, try to improve. And in this case the "new", what differs from the Spanish proposal is that in this case we asked that they be mandatory measures at the time of the recruitment, not the only ones, which was at first also what we said, but that we were legally told that this cannot be requested as such. Well, let's put within the social clauses that these criteria that we are going to redefine are rewarded in public procurement and in obtaining subsidies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think it's important to bring the subject here today and discuss it with it, but I'm very sorry that we have more, more than anything that separates us. I've offered a lot of time to anyone who separates us. I think the Popular Party had that idea, from that idea of legitimate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u56	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u57	Yes, I'll just finish Mrs. President. Here we have what distinguishes us, and it is a pity that these differences have acquired more centrality than that of unions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u59	Yes, we have been close, but I do not share that it is at least exclusively a drafting problem, because if not, I ask for a recess right now and we get there to fine-tune the wording. But indeed, the problem is not one of drafting, the problem is that there are some elements of the initiative on which we do not agree. And I have not discredited or disqualified, as you have said, your proposal. I have pointed out that I do not like it, that I do not agree. I don't think that's disqualifying them. When I end up in this rostrum I usually come out with the feeling that I've been lazy and then it turns out that you tell me that I disqualified you. No, greater disqualification could be, which I do not consider, that you say that what we are going to vote for these two groups is a toast to the sun, because it is not. You may not agree but it is not a toast to the sun, it is a transaction with six pieces of dots and with concrete contents. And some of those contents are the ones that I believe the People's Party does not share, and they are the ones that have somehow finally made that there is not also an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. In particular, I believe that it has been very important to incorporate this possible certificate as a priority clause of equality in public procurement and the issue of aid and subsidies. I think that is the fundamental part on which we do not agree, and it is not a matter of drafting. And I was saying that for us it was an important, fundamental issue, and even when we were talking I said that for us that was a bit the red line, because it seems to us that that is what it is or could allow us to differentiate between a certificate that, in fact, could be a cut between companies, as I said before, or that it could be simply a certificate that companies that are in good interest can take it out. It is very good for your own promotion, etc., but it does not represent an effective cut-off line to move forward with great steps in the field of equality. And I do not despise the small advances that can be made, at all. It's just that I think today we had an initiative that, if we ended up, could have taken a big step. A small step is fine, but a big step is always better than a small step. Therefore, for our part nothing more. While pointing out to the People's Party, perhaps, that the transaction to which it comes is not obvious that in this country the majority of companies are SMEs. We're not talking here about a company of 10 workers having to put up a day care center. So, with such an initiative you can have the perfect attention to the types and diversity of companies we have. For the sake of clarity. So I leave the rostrum simply by reiterating that if it were a matter of drafting, for our part there is no problem in making a recess and re-sitting, but I think it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u61	No, to clarify some issues. I do not think it is a question of drafting, Mr Hernández. I think it is a matter of substance and of different approaches or at some points of the same nuances, but of very important nuances that make the specific issues finally come up in one way or another, right? You put forward a certificate and we put forward a stamp, which may be a coincidence, but on how to get it started I think we have not finally reached an agreement. But the initial approach could be quite similar. The EH Bildu group and you were talking about a certificate in companies and we were talking about a stamp. I mean, it's something that the groups that support the government didn't pick up. I therefore believe that both the proposing groups, the proposing group, and you, as well as the amending groups, have tried to move forward with concrete proposals. I understand that the government is also more conservative in putting forward the amendments, but I want to say that there were concrete proposals for improvement both in its original initiative, in the original initiative, in the Podemos amendments and in that of the People's Party. Man, I've used the toast to the sun a little metaphorically, but what I wanted to say, and I'm going to explain myself, is that for us, our initiative is really the one that's realistic, because at the end of what you're talking about is empowering an instrument that we already have and that I think it's important. And you have also put it to the end, but at first you did not see the suitability of having to enhance the Concilia portal really as an effective tool of advice and support to companies that want to have advice on this matter, or to inform them of the concrete measures to be promoted or how an equality plan can be implemented. And I think that is also an essential point, that is to say, it is very good that we raise, by means of the certificate and we by means of a seal, something new in companies. And at the state level there is, as has been mentioned here, the certificate of companies which are particularly familiarly responsible. But I think that we also need to use and enhance the instruments that we already have as that portal that, at present and according to us they have brought us from different collectives and associations, is not used or is not configured so that it can be a real instrument for companies in the field of conciliation. I would therefore like to make it clear that for us our proposal was more realistic and that is why I also understand that, as part of the compromise amendment, I think it is a more realistic proposal. The same for EH Bildu's spokesperson, toast to the sun, to be clarified. Yes, indeed you speak of equality and conciliation, you have put it at the last moment, but I believe that the approach – and I mentioned this in my first speech – I believe that if in a society we really want to guarantee equality of opportunity in order to build a just society, we need to speak clearly about equality and reconciliation. And these are precisely the two terms that we have introduced when we talk about the distinctive Euskadi Concilia seal. We are talking about equality, conciliation and, above all, we are talking about companies and different types of companies, which I think is a question that cannot be overlooked in an autonomous community where fortunately we have a very varied business fabric, but we have to be aware of how it is the business fabric that we have in the Basque Autonomous Community and in each of the historical territories, which is also different, with specific specificities in each of them. When you talk to me about the readjustment of the royal decree, which must take into account certain feminist collectives and collectives... If it seems to me very well, but I think that there were other collectives who have much to say on equal terms and who have many needs on equal terms, such as family associations, associations of people with disabilities, societies with mental illnesses, with specific pathologies... Or do those families who have all these needs because they have people as members of the family who have specific needs in this area have no problems of reconciliation? That is why I have pointed out the safeguard that I preferred a more generic wording, because when we quote, we have the risk of leaving out groups that have a lot to say and that have a lot of needs in the area of conciliation. We have tried not to obsess about signing a transaction in maximum terms, but on approaches that can be realistic and that also follow the conception that we have in relation to these issues. And I want to say that in part there have been numerous initiatives that have been arbitrated at the state level as instruments to promote reconciliation and equality measures, the family plan, specific plans... We have also proposed a plan of rationalization and reconciliation of schedules, incorporation of man in breastfeeding, has also been the extension of the paternity permit from 1 January 2017, aids for the self-employed who need to reduce their day for the care of children, regulation of telework for the first time in Spain... These are all the measures that have been put in place in recent years. And I think it's definitely not enough, but I think it's the way forward and of course...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u62	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u63	I'm done, Madam President. With this compromise amendment, I believe, and I hope so, that the Government will make a real and effective commitment to reconciliation and equality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo shouldn't interfere. The natural patriot, Mrs. Arriguega, must not speak a word. [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u65	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the opposites, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u66	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, to control the conditions of Eukadin and the compliment of the work-place. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos team, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u67	Well, it's almost the last blackmail. But for our group the initiative that we are going to discuss now and that we bring to the House is an important initiative and on an important issue, or at least we are concerned and we think it is important. Because it is an initiative that we are now bringing to the debate that is intended to contribute in the fight against violations of the rights of workers and violations of the rights of workers, violations and violations of the rights of workers that are taking place on a daily basis, that are increasing in the world of work and that we think that they are not being given the answer they need, that it is not the same as saying that nothing is being done, I have already said it on more than one occasion, but that they are not having the answer they need and, therefore, ultimately, that violations of the rights of workers are being allowed to increase. Over the past 10 years the precarious working conditions have been increasing in our society. I don't think anyone's discussing that anymore. And it is true that an important part of responsibility or guilt, rather than the legislative changes that have occurred in labour law in recent years, the labour reforms, which have allowed this precariousness and which have allowed the increase of abuse against the rights of workers. But it is also true – and we would lie if we said otherwise – that these abuses and rights violations already existed prior to the latest labour reforms. And, therefore, today we did not want to talk about labour legislation – and we know what our opinion is – but we wanted to bring an initiative that can strengthen, that can support the work being done for control, for monitoring and for monitoring that at least the rights that are recognized to us today are fulfilled to the workers, which is not contrary to continuing the struggle to improve those rights and for future labour legislation, of course, that is better than what we have today. But the initiative we are bringing to the House today is an initiative whose object is exclusively that, to propose a series of tools that, if used correctly, can be a reinforcement to fight ultimately against precariousness. But, in particular, and immediately to combat abuses, to combat violations of workers' rights and rights, which, as I said, is something that happens on a daily basis, with varying degrees, from the smallest violations of rights, every day, to the largest, some with serious consequences, especially in the field of safety at work, with very serious consequences at the end, with consequences on many occasions and, unfortunately, also increasing, unfortunately, from deaths in accidents at work. That is what we propose with this initiative, an initiative aimed at strengthening this struggle and this control in the world, in the world of work. Because we basically have two agents who, in our view, have a fundamental role in this struggle. On the one hand, the trade unions, which we believe they must be recognized for the very important role they play in monitoring and controlling companies that comply with workers' rights. And they have different ways and tools to carry out this work: through union action, through pressure, through mobilization, also through negotiation and, in this particular case, also through collaboration with labour inspection, with Osalan, with public administrations, ultimately. And the second agent is the job inspection. Labour inspection plays a fundamental role and we, and in order to clear up any doubt that may arise, intend nothing more than to strengthen the role of labour inspection precisely with this initiative. We, as we have already said on more than one occasion, think that at the moment work inspection, not only in Euskadi, but in Euskadi has an insufficient dimension. It is true, and we recognize it, as has been said, that it has the greatest staff we have ever had, but we still think that, regardless of whether that is the greatest staff we have ever had, we still think that it is an absolutely insufficient dimension, and not because we are in the opposition and want to demand that there be more, but because – some time I have already expressed it also in this rostrum – if we look at the work inspection we have and look at the field of work to which the work inspection has to be directed, the difference is brutal. We're talking about a work inspection with about a hundred employees – I think I'm not wrong about the data – and we're talking about a reality of hundreds of thousands of women and men, employees and employees, and we're talking about a reality of thousands of businesses. And, therefore, we think that the labour inspection should be scaled up. That is how we have defended it, that is how we will continue to defend it and, in fact, you know that one of the issues that we have put on the table to negotiate the Community's budgets with the current Government is precisely this, that of providing more resources, in this case human, for labour inspection. But we also thought, and that is why we are bringing this initiative, that in addition to increasing labour inspection and providing it with more means, we think that there are tools for public administrations to collaborate with labour inspection in an organized way, in an effective way and that, therefore, it can make labour inspection work more effective than it is at the moment. Not because of the lack of professionalism of the inspectors and sub-inspectors, but because of the difference between the inspection we have and the field of work to be addressed and the issues to be monitored. And, therefore, we proposed two measures in our non-law proposal. One is to improve and increase coordination between the institutions in this field, it is something that we have not invented, it is something that we have repeatedly read in different reports by the Basque Government itself, from the times of Mr Toña to the present. We therefore considered it important to raise this issue. And we proposed that, in order to effectively address this collaboration, it would be important to provide the necessary means, in this case, to the municipalities, so that they can collaborate with the labour inspection, through information and a number of other elements with which the municipalities can count and which can be valuable for the labour inspection. And we proposed a second question. I do not know why I think it has resulted up to something controversial, I do not just understand why, that it is also moving that area of collaboration through the police, through the Ertzaintza and certain municipal police. We believe that it is a public resource, in this case, that of the police, which could be valuable if it were used in an organized way, to collaborate through effective collaboration agreements with the labour inspection in Euskadi. They could play an important role in providing information to the labour inspectorate, which would facilitate the work of inspectors and sub-inspectors with very important workloads. Therefore, that is what we propose, a collaborative role of the Ertzaintza and certain municipal police with the labour inspection. And for that, it would be essential that – in this case we talk about units – they have the necessary training. It is not necessary to be a labor lawyer, but it is necessary to have a certain training, so that they are really useful for the labour inspection. That is therefore the initiative we are proposing, which has not been supported by any of the groups in the House. We're gonna stand alone defending her. I will listen carefully to the reasons why they reject it. But we thought it was a good initiative, which can allow us to enhance the inspection of work through collaboration with other public tools that we have. And, besides, we are convinced that it is not only not a martianade, because we have precedents. In Valencia, recently, a socialist government has also developed a measure very similar to this one. And well in advance of time, similar measures were also taken in Germany with very good results, so we have been able to read. Therefore, basically this is what we propose, that collaboration between institutions be strengthened and that municipalities be empowered to collaborate with the labour inspectorate, and that the police, the Ertzaintza, the autonomous police and also certain municipal police officers be used to establish cooperation agreements with labour inspectorates and to have units that can reinforce the work they do. We will hear why they reject our initiative. We thought it was an initiative that could be carried out and we thought it was an initiative that, of course, would not replace the labour inspection, which would not go against the defence of increasing the resources and size of the labour inspection. But we think it could serve to support the work inspection and to make your work more effective through collaboration. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The turn of the leaders' teams, the EH Collect Group's turn. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. My first words, I know, have nothing to do with the subject, but my first words, are for the easy-and-for the Incongruity, which have been judged by the general interest of the Gupus. But this time justice has made them right, and so congratulations to both of us. And, returning to the subject, one of the principal cares of the present society is plain, that employment is, firstly, want of employment, and most of all the impatience and impatience which it produces. The uneasiness of La Naval, and in general of many of the workmen and families on the left, which we have heard today, or which has been discussed, if we do not find a solution, may be added to them. But also the quality of many new employments, and of many new employments which are being produced at the present day: few wages, bad conditions, partial contracts, uncontradicted jobs, extraordinary hours of work, the prevention of the charges, a long rise of labouring and so on. And on this point, of course, the drama of the working-man of Zurilec died yesterday. Official records say that he's dead this year's 57. Our deepest sympathies to his relatives and friends. And if we bring all this to the reality of the young ones, we may say, in general, that we are in the presence of a generation captured in the prevaricate, a generation which sees the future too crude. Young people who can't find the most perfect generation and a worthy work or a work match their formation. With all the consequences of this situation, of course: could not give way to the leap of execution, could not carry a life forward, step to form a family, not inferior to birth rates, an old age of the public, and a long, long one. And if we put a woman's face on these young people, then we can't say. According to what they received from a record of Professional study services, the job rate of young women is 5 points lower than that of men among those who are least in shape. An enormous wager, less than 21% is charged by young women compared to men. In the midst of those who are in high school, women's unemployment is almost threefold, and so on. As has been repeated from different groups, not only today, for it has often been discussed, it is necessary to take measures to end with the prefect, and one of these measures is the control of the compliment of the conditions of labour and of the order of labour, which Podemos has brought together today for discussion. The framework policy refers to work conditions and the control function of the work rule to the work viewer. It's well defined, whether you like it or not. But I don't mean that these functions can't be reformed. I'd like to re-examine these functions and not just functions. I'd like to re-establish all the rules in the scope of work. But this, of course, is impossible; Today, the budget of the Spanish government has been agreed on the negotiation with the minimum wage. For this same purpose we need all right, as is agreed on the basis and principles of repairing the auto-gourage, which is in the hands of the executive and executive Autonomy of Euscalia. And that's why we've introduced what we've received in full correction, asking you to negotiate with the Spanish State at once all the rights that relate to your relationships are immediately transferred. And let him content himself with what we have in the meantime, and strengthen the work-view of the State of Spain, by creating the necessary inspectors and new inspectors, as this legislature has already asked for, the whole corrections we have received, and which I now wish to recall. On the 17th of May, as was shown in order to strengthen the inspection of the work-in-law, it was unanimously accepted that the number of inspectors who work in the prevention of the public charges, should increase, by creating all the inspectors and all the new posts which are transferred to the full priority. And, on the other hand, to strengthen the security and health inspections of the society transferred to our society and society, after the government has once established the rule of its functions. It was a fortnight ago that I passed the question to Mme. But since I have not yet got an answer, we have not yet received an answer, I do not know what this is about, but we shall continue. And it is true that Mr. Hernandez has also said, and we have often heard more than once that we have the greatest number of spectacles in the Euscanic Autonomy at the present day, but it is evident, that they are not sufficiently indebted to truth. They do not arrive at the great work they reach, either in the right way or in the right way, they do not arrive. And, as Mr. Hernández has stated here, labour-view can be completed in another way. We believe that it would improve the results which are now achieved in this area, and we have received this point in our correction. But giving these control functions to the councils, we don't see clearly. I explained my doubts to Mr. Hernandez yesterday. Not until we have no jurisdiction in that area. In the first place, we ought to have the right of refining the vision of labour, and then of examining the propriety of this measure. As it is always received in the City Law, by the guarantee of the principle of Finance, in order to develop a jurisdiction which is not proper for the townships. And this is especially important in the smallest councils. We must consider what the reality of our townships is when we examine such proposals. Our country is composed of small nations, besides cities and great nations, of many manufactures, which constitute our territory. Their reality, then, must also be considered in making such proposals. And we don't see clearly how to promote a deal to produce new functions in this area of the Borders and the Townships, and to develop new specific units for the work inspectors. Every cop has a different function and profile. They are well distinguished and defined, and we cannot confound them, I understand that we would be in danger of creating dysfunctions. And it is true that the police are now engaged in the circle of business affairs, but always as a judicial police officer in the investigations of the crimes which are committed by the order of the judge. And it can create and create new specialized units, but it can always create them, can't it? We must therefore consider the opportunity of giving new functions, and above all agree with the police. And to conclude, I would like to conclude, that the control of the compliment of the work-conditions and the regulations is necessary, of course, but that we can't stay on it. We have said more than once that the study of prevention is essential, and that the formation is indispensable, but that we must place the force on many other points. And with what I have said, I suppose you have guessed, and I think Mr. Hernandez has also expressed it: We will not protect this proposition as it was proposed by the Podemos. We tried to reach a point of agreement, but it couldn't be and see if it could be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u70	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u71	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing an initiative concerning the control of working conditions and compliance with labour law in the Basque Country. I believe that the intention of the proposing group, by Elkarrekin Podemos, to improve that control over working conditions and safety and health at work is good, but I must express our total disagreement with the measures they propose in order to achieve it. We agree that in recent years there has been an increase in the precariousness of working conditions, mainly as a result of the labour reform carried out in 2012 and subsequent reforms in matters such as working hours, the control of hours worked in part-time contracts, or the greater ease of changing the working conditions of workers by companies, among others. We also agree that monitoring of compliance by the Labour Inspectorate in both labour and occupational safety and health must continue. But it must continue to be the Labour Inspectorate that carries out these monitoring and control functions, as well as the sanctioning ones, and not others. In addition, this is regulated by Law 23/2015, the computer of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and also the computer laws prior to it. Elkarrekin Podemos proposes that municipal and Ertzaintza police officers be assigned to carry out work inspection work on conditions of compliance with labour regulations, creating specific units. After receiving specific training in the control of working conditions, to then provide information to the Labour Inspectorate and that it can carry out sanctioning actions. And this for us is a misconception for the reasons I'm going to argue below. First, because the local police and the autonomous police must continue to devote themselves to what they have to do, which is to control the crimes. This control already exists and coordinated actions are carried out between the Labour Inspectorate, including between the General Treasury of Social Security with the National Police and the Ertzaintza. And within the system of Labour and Social Security Inspection, through the actions carried out both by labour and social security inspectors and by the sub-inspectors of employment as well as by the sub-inspectors of occupational safety and health, it is where the monitoring of compliance with labour and health and safety regulations must continue to be carried out and the requirements and penalties deemed appropriate in order to achieve such compliance. And in cases where it is considered that an offence may have been committed by a company or an employer, implement the communication protocols that exist at this time and inform the Prosecutor and the police for their investigations. That's already done. And secondly, I ask you, Mr Hernández, how long do you consider it sufficient for those members of the specialized units within the local police or the Ertzaintza to have the capacity to know when work and safety and health regulations are being breached and who also have to relate to employment and social security regulations? How much? Do you know how long it takes for a work inspector to prepare and approve oppositions and to master the entire agenda that is required of him in order to ensure that when approving he is a professional prepared for it? I'm going to tell you, Mr. Hernandez. From three to five years, it depends on the number of places that are called year by year. In other words, it takes him as much time as he would have had to spend approving another legislature to pass the specialisation. And you intend to skip all this and give a training course and perform the duties of local police and Ertzaintza labour inspection. It is impossible for them to master and have sufficient knowledge to do so properly with a training course. What's the next one going to be? When there is an increase in crimes, do we, in your opinion, give the labour inspectors another workshop for them to investigate the crimes? Well, I'm saying the same thing, definitely not. Not Mr. Hernández. Each body has to perform well the functions that it has commissioned and not make mejunctions, that do not help and do not serve for nothing, and use the forces that we have formed in the different bodies to perform the functions that they already have commissioned and then, when it is necessary to act coordinatedly, it acts between the different bodies coordinatedly. But such coordination is also being carried out at this time and there are ways of doing so, through communications between the different administrations or complaints in the Labour Inspectorate. I don't know. Perhaps it will soon occur to you that to reduce waiting lists in Osakidetza we gave a training course to nurses and operating patients in the operating theatres. What does it look like a misconception to you? Well, that's the same thing. The doctor has spent a lot of time preparing to be a good professional and he cannot complete all that preparation with a training course to a person who has not done and has not been properly specialized in performing these functions. Because, moreover, when these functions are exercised and assumed as a professional, responsibility for the actions carried out is also assumed. What you propose is not the solution. The good solution, in the opinion of the Basque Socialists, is to increase the activities of the Labour Inspectorate in the control of employment and occupational safety and health regulations and to increase the number of personnel dedicated to them. Therefore, since the beginning of 2017, campaigns are being carried out in the Basque Country from the Department of Labour and Justice and through the Labour Inspectorate, in order to control labour fraud and the irregular economy. And at the national level, in July, in the first 100 days of the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, the Master Plan of Labour Inspection for a Dignified Work 2018-2020, approved on 27 July 2018, has been approved by the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security, which wants to be a tool to address the deterioration of the working conditions in the labour market, with 59 operational measures and 20 organizational measures. These include a combination of immediate and long-term measures, the first two of which have been implemented since the Labour Inspectorate last August, a plan to combat temporary recruitment fraud and a plan to combat part-time recruitment abuses. And it also wants to reform the fight against the irregular economy and face new modalities within the collaborative economy, within online platforms The Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country participates in the implementation of the two plans, since the Master Plan affects all the system of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, and its objectives fully coincide with those of the Department of Labour and Justice, and in which the Labour Inspectorate of Euskadi has been working intensively since the beginning of 2017, as I have already indicated. As a result of this campaign that has been carried out throughout this year, together with the extraordinary joint campaign carried out by the State Labour Inspectorate and the inspection transferred to the Basque Government, a total of 5,640 contracts have been scheduled for September. They account for 39% of the revised contracts in Euskadi, which accounts for a quarter of those converted into indefinite contracts. In other words, one in four contracts converted into indefinite contracts were so required by the Labour Inspectorate. These are temporary and partial contracts in fraud of law, which become the vast majority indefinite. According to data provided by the Department of Labour and Justice, until June, the number of regularized contracts amounted to 4,334 contracts. That is to say, in the last quarter 1,320 more contracts have been transformed through this extraordinary campaign. In this first phase 86,000 letters have been sent at national level with warnings, which were launched in August 2018 to different companies and which have had an important deterrent effect for companies to regulate their situation in those temporary contracts that should not be. As a result, 6,292 part-time workers had been able to expand their working hours, but they carried out full-time work abusively by their employers; 46,554 fraudulent temporary contracts had been transformed, representing 57.8% of the contracts detected. And the second phase of that campaign will begin, with the inspection visit in person to the companies that have not regularized the situation of their temporary and partial workers, and which begins in this month of October. Within the Master Plan of the Inspection of Work for a Dignified Work 2018-2020, a public job offer will also be carried out in October, to recruit 353 new inspectors and sub-inspectors, with the aim of adding 833 new staff, by 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u72	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u73	... and will assume, an increase of 25% of the staff. That is why we are going to support and vote in favour of the amendment to the joint whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, because it is the one that is on the line, in the right line that I have indicated to you, to continue to carry out these intense campaigns to review temporary and part-time contracts and to increase the number of staff within the Labour Inspectorate. And I hope that all too...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u75	Yeah, I'll be right there. And I hope that the amendment as a whole will also be supported by other groups in the House. This is the path that must be followed and not another that serves no purpose and, above all, it is contrary to what the current legislation marks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u77	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. As employment for EAJ is the fundamental axis of its political activity, we compromise the economic and social policies that aim to produce and maintain more employment and better quality. Focusing more on this issue on the initiative that you are bringing us today, Mr Hernández, it seems that it is also an initiative that is having little success. I will tell you that it is essential for us that the Labour Administration deploys all its potential, potential facilitator of the correct application of working conditions, through the exercise of the functions of inspectors and consultants and showing the precise formulas of the correct compliance and development of the labor regulations. It places us in its initiative in the control of working conditions and compliance with labour regulations. And from an initial analysis of the basic approaches of his initiative, I would say that we have clear coincidences, without any doubt. We detect that concern in the citizenry, it is a shared concern, we share perception, I share perception with you, Mr Hernández. A concern with two dimensions, quantitative and qualitative, in the form of an objective: to increase employment, i.e. to reduce unemployment and, on the other hand, to improve its quality. This initiative that brings us today is more focused on this second objective. We share, I also share with you, that it is the duty of the institutions to design solutions by deploying their full potential, as I said before, to improve these situations. We share the need for institutional impetus, the need – as you say in your justification – to put forward initiatives that lead to the substantial improvement of working conditions. So far, I'm tuned in. We are clear about this and, in that regard, I would like to refer to our electoral programme. Of the 178 commitments of our entire electoral programme, 56, more than 30%, correspond to this general concern. Of these, six specific commitments in today's debate, six commitments in this particular strategic area, which are deployed in 11 initiatives and 48 specific actions. And these commitments, initiatives and actions were reflected in the agreement of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, in the agreement they signed on 22 November 2016. And this agreement, within the framework of our Executive and its programme of government, is materialized in a firm commitment to work together with the social partners to improve working conditions. In this regard, the Government understands that labour inspection is a key tool for quality assurance and compliance with labour legislation. And it is certainly a government committed to strengthening inspection services. A commitment to the development of concrete measures: information actions, monitoring actions, inspection actions aimed at detecting possible irregularities. I've previously talked about synchrony between you and me, and it's now, at the time of the concretions, when that synchrony fades. But before I focus on the implementation of the proposals and their materialization in a given action, a previous detail, the attitude to the problem. To believe the diagnosis and believe in the solution to be applied, to believe the measures proposed, to have determination in that belief, analysis, duty, commitment, concrete proposal and action, of what we were talking about. I have determination in what I am going to put to you, in what I am putting to you. I believe in our concrete proposal. I believe that the action I defend helps in an important way to achieve the solution. I ask you, Mr Hernández: Do you believe in your proposal? Do you believe in your proposal? Do you believe in what you propose to us, believe in what you propose to us in this initiative? You tell us, and I'm going to quote you, "One of these lines of work could go in the line of..." "One of these lines of work could go in the line of..." Could you go? Really, Mr. Hernández? Your solution proposal is "Can we go try it out, see if there's any luck?" What about this in the field of employment? It makes it very difficult for me; it makes it difficult for me only with attitude, it makes it very difficult for me only with attitude. And I, I would never define your initiative as you have said, as a "marcianade," I would never define it that way. But it makes it very difficult for me not to call it an unexpected idea without weighing, that is, occurrence. And it's just that the more she went into it, in the detail of the proposed part, the more difficult it is for me to withdraw that qualification from her. What is the concrete action that sets us up? Not that makeup I was talking about, size the inspection, in its introduction, collaborate, no. You are asking us, first of all, to put the municipalities – and I quote – "to control the working conditions in the companies based on them", one. Two: "Develop" – and I quote – "specific work inspection units in Ertzaintza and local police." That's what he's asking us, that's what he's asking us, that's what he's proposing. We have completely amended this non-legislative proposal. Firstly, for a legal reason. Law 23/2015, Authorizing the Labour Inspection System, in its article 2, sets out the computer principles of the inspection system and, in its section E, reserves the role of inspector in the social order to the officials of the Inspection. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate is the only competent body with regard to the contents of the inspection function. But the legal reason is not the most important to me, beyond the reason, of this legal reason, beyond being reflected in the Law. My argument has a conceptual reason. I've always thought that law, laws, regulations, are tools at the service of society. And the public administration has an obligation to optimize the use of these tools to respond to needs, to respond to the problems faced by a society, always understood that law is a set of tools, a box of tools, and an advanced rule of law has to make systematic progress in the use of tools that are increasingly adequate, more adapted to the object being pursued. I firmly believe that these tools, with their use, have to be increasingly precise, enabling specialization. They must pursue objectives of continuous improvement in efficiency and efficiency. And I bring forth the simile of law as a toolbox because it has been used more often in this House. Not long ago, I recall that Mr Arzuaga, referring to some of the measures of the previous Government of the State, highlighted the use of only one tool from the entire hammer box. Sophistication of the tools, that is, complex and advanced, from rationality and proportionality in their use. Competition should not be dispersed. I do not think he is aware of the real impact his proposal would have. They propose to increase the functions of police bodies to areas for which they are not specialized, rather than to enhance the collaboration between public servants from rationality. I also wonder if you are aware of the reality of local police in Euskadi, especially in the smaller municipalities – Mrs Otamendi said – where existing resources exhaust your possibilities in fulfilling your own competencies. Do you know this, Mr. Hernández? In addition to all the above, I am very concerned that I overlook the very positive results that even the press echoes, which are the result of the systematic use by this Government of the sophisticated tools to which I have just referred. And by way of example, the effective job contract review campaigns that reminded you with a lot of data Mrs Sánchez a moment ago. That is why, Mr Hernández, we have amended the whole of your two-point proposal by proposing, on the one hand, that, through the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which alone is responsible for the monitoring and control of working conditions, the Government, the Basque Government, continue to carry out these intense campaigns, and continue to use these precise tools. On the other hand, it should continue to strengthen labour inspection services in order to maintain them as such, as a fundamental tool for ensuring quality and compliance with labour legislation. Advance in your proposals, Mr Hernández, let us use more precise tools and I invite you at this time to vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the team that has issued any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that many of the issues that I am going to discuss here have already been raised earlier by other representatives and, of course, not only today, but also on other occasions. Because, as has also been said here, the issue of compliance with working conditions, the issue of employment, of quality in employment, of avoiding job insecurity, in short, of avoiding labour sinestrality, is an issue that we have discussed on many occasions in this House. A year ago we were discussing a motion by EH Bildu on measures to be taken, for example for accidents at work. Earlier this year, we again discussed the same issue with regard to the need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. We also did so in committee when various agents have appeared who have spoken to us about job insecurity, who have told us about the causes and the measures to be taken to prevent and prevent job sinestrality, who have told us about the need to monitor compliance with working conditions. I agree that the responsibility for the fulfilment of working conditions, for the fulfilment of quality, for the monitoring of quality in employment, for the prevention of occupational risks, is a commitment of all, and it is a task of all, of employers, of citizens, of trade unions, of the administration. And I agree with what is laid down in the initiative that has been set out here, I believe that on the part of all groups, that this concern for employment, for quality in employment, for occupational disaster, is a common concern, is a concern of all groups in this House. It is true, Mr Hernández, that I have to tell you that on this occasion you have been a little less catastrophic than on other occasions, that it has sometimes seemed that nothing was done, that in Basquedi the Labour Inspectorate, that Osalan was in his arms and did nothing, and today he has acknowledged that there are things that are done but that are not enough, with which I believe we could all agree, but it is also true, and it must be acknowledged, that measures are being taken precisely to do more than what is done. Because I agree with you that there is scope for improvement, of course there is. As long as there is a breach of a working condition, as long as there is still precarious employment, as long as there is only one work accident, there will be scope for improvement, there will be no doubt. But as I say, it is true that the Labour Inspectorate, the Social Security Inspectorate, which Osalan is acting and the last time, for example, we gave the data, and today they have also been pointed out here. I therefore believe that I agree with you, as the rest of the groups are, that strict compliance with labour law needs to be monitored, that quality jobs need to be promoted, that security measures are required, that preventive measures are required to avoid labour injury and psychosocial risks, and that they need to be reported when they are not met. And, therefore, I believe that it is everyone's task to insist on it. And, therefore, we believe that inspections should be strengthened, and I believe that on many occasions we have reached agreements here. Last time, the last time, not the last time, we signed an amendment to that effect. And that inspection will also increase your personal media, as Mrs Sánchez said. But while we agree with the objective of the initiative, we must also disagree on the means proposed. Because it's a matter of everyone, it doesn't mean everyone has to do everything. We, of course, believe that it is necessary to strengthen the staff and the personal and material means of the Labour Inspectorate, but we believe that it is the Labour Inspectorate and it is the labour inspectors who have to ensure that working conditions are met. Because they are responsible for carrying out such an inspection. Neither the Ertzaintza, nor the local police, nor the municipalities. And they're not, and I don't think they should be for any number of reasons. First, Mrs. Sanchez told you. Labour inspection requires a specialization that is neither quick nor simple. It covers knowing the whole of the extensive and complex regulations and this requires your time. If, for example, you go to the memory of the Office of the Prosecutor, in the section on crimes against workers' rights, reference is made precisely to complexity. And there is a specialisation among prosecutors for the processing of proceedings and in many cases they are asked to make a declaration of complexity, precisely for the time and knowledge involved. But, in addition to the complexity, a complexity that in order to achieve this specialization by the local police and the Ertzaintza would take a lot of time and effort, I believe that it is also necessary to distinguish between the administrative illegality, that is, the administrative offence and the criminality, which is the crime. One thing is the persecution of the precariousness of work, of the harmfulness of work, of the observance of working conditions, of overtime, of working hours, and another is the violations of the rights of workers that are criminalized in our Penal Code. The first is the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate, the other requires the intervention of the Ertzaintza, in its case, as judicial police with the help of the courts. The Ertzaintza, as I say to you, as a judicial police, will have to intervene when some of the offences referred to in Title 15 of Articles 311 to 318 are committed, crimes against the rights of workers. When such criminal conduct occurs, of course, there must be Ertzaintza, assisting the courts as judicial police in their case. But, of course, we do not see that neither the Ertzaintza nor the local police are responsible for monitoring the fulfilment of working conditions. I'm going to give you a simile, Mr. Hernandez. Imagine the Ertzaintza or the local police reviewing the statements of the IRPF, the statements of the corporation tax. Not us. We think that's what the Finance Inspectors are for. If these inspections are carried out by the Treasury and there are criminal conducts, that there has been the commission of a fiscal offence, for example, then yes, then the police would have to intervene, the Ertzaintza would have to intervene, as I say, by assisting the courts. One issue is the work of tax inspectors, tax agents, labour inspectors, environmental inspectors; and another is very different, for example, from that of units such as the UDEF, such as SEPRONA, or as action for the prosecution of crimes against workers' rights. As you have been told here, Law 23/2015, the authorising officer of the Labour Inspection and Social Security System, provides that this competence, the competence of the inspection, belongs to the labour inspectors. And he does multiple actions throughout the year. Moreover, in response to a question from you – and that is why I do not read the data profusely, which I have – a question from you was informed of the performances of 2017 and the performances... Here I have the first semester, although then there I have a summary of those of the first semester of 2018 in which all the performances are said, which have risen to 12,303, in areas such as labor relations, occupational risk prevention and employment. And also, in your reply, you have been informed about what – which Mrs Sánchez has also highlighted here – the actions that were to be taken, such as the Master Plan for Labour Inspection and Social Security and two shock plans that are under way. Therefore, as you see, the inspectors in their field of action are acting. That the situation requires more inspections and more profuse? We can agree with you. And in that sense, that is why we do not amend your initiative, because how can you get more inspections and more profuse and more actions? We need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, which we have requested on other occasions and which the Government is responding to and is doing so. That is why we do not amend it and we are going to vote against it, because I believe that the formula of achieving the objective you want, which is greater compliance with working conditions in Basque, is achieved through a series of measures which have already been requested several times in this House and which are going to be requested again today and which I am going to vote in favour, but which are, I believe, being taken care of by the government. And with regard to the amendment by EH Bildu – and I am finishing – we are going to vote against because the first of the questions refers to what I was saying, to that request. And the second, because it's already a classic EH Bildu, is the saying, "Where are you going? Apples bring me." Well, with EH Bildu it's, "Where are you going? I'll bring you some skills." Because it doesn't matter what initiative it is, which is "No, no, we don't want competition in Euskadi." And here everything happens because the competition is in Euskadi. Any time and occasion is good for demanding the competence and the proper scope of labor relations, which is already a classic in this type of initiatives by EH Bildu. What has not just been clarified, although I believe I do not believe, is that if we had the competence, the inspection of working conditions, the Ertzaintza and the local police would enter or not. I don't think so, but that will have to be clarified, in your case, EH Bildu. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u80	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u81	Of course I believe in the initiative I bring to the House, Mr Aiartza. If not, I wouldn't bring her, believe me, if not, I wouldn't bring her. Of course I do. Maybe I can recognize that I can get away with some technical details of how things are then put into practice. But of course I believe in the initiative, and I also believe that it is not a misconception, as Mrs Sánchez said, nor is it an occurrence, as you said, in the sense of an unexpected idea, among other things, because the idea is not even ours. And I have already explained before that similar measures, some almost identical, have already been implemented elsewhere. And that there are unions, some unions that have proposed such measures. Because we were not decorating in my previous speech what we proposed when I talked about that we thought we should enhance Labour Inspection. I wasn't decorating. I was making the introduction, because we have been arguing that the key is indeed in that part where we seem to agree, but that it is absolutely insufficient as it is today, that we have a Labour Inspectorate which is absolutely insufficient for the tasks it has to deal with and for the labour market, where we work the workers and with the extent to which the violation of the rights of the workers is widespread. I will not enter into which of them are criminal offences or which are administrative offences. They are violations of the rights of workers, and we are not proposing that the Ertzaintza play the role of labour inspectors, that is not what we are proposing, no. That is not what we are proposing in that initiative, so I cannot answer Mrs Sánchez, I do not know exactly, I will not determine how much training time would be needed for the ERTzainas in this type of units. What is clear to me is that they do not need the same training as a labour inspector. Because we're not proposing that you do the work of the labour inspectors, that's not it. We are proposing units that will collaborate with the Labour Inspectorate, but units that have a minimum of training, so that they can be really effective in that collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, which, in my opinion, would essentially be information and something that I think is very important too, deterrence. Because many of the violations of the rights of workers committed on a day-to-day basis are also not criminal offences, as has been said in this rostrum today, but they are small violations committed every day and that we do not have to suffer the workers and that it is very difficult for the Labour Inspectorate to arrive at the concrete reality of each of them. I have not been less catastrophic than on other occasions, because on other occasions I believe – as I am wrong and have bad memory, which can also be – I think I have always recognized that something is done. I have never said here that nothing should be done about it. What I have always made clear is that with what we have, with the Labour Inspectorate that we have, the problem cannot be covered, the harsh reality of the violation of the rights of the workers that we suffer every day in our country and that is increasing. So, I think I've always recognized that something is being done. But I am equally catastrophic in describing that reality, because reality, that reality, in a lot of jobs, is a fucked up reality. It is a fucked up reality, and I know very well the work that people like Mrs Sánchez do, who, if I remember correctly, is a labour inspector, and I know the work and the effort they do, but I also know how far they can go, and I know very well the despair of so many and so many workers, when they know what they are suffering and see the difficulty of taking action. And that's why I think this initiative is a good initiative, which could help the Labour Inspectorate, and that the technical question of how that will then have to be developed, of course, surely, I would not be the most appropriate person to develop it there. But this can be done and is also provided for in the law. Some of the spokesmen of the groups have told me about the law, and the law precisely provides for collaboration with the security forces and, therefore, we are saying that this should be organized, that this should be done. That's what we're saying. I insist, we are not proposing, so that there is no doubt, we are not proposing that the Ertzaintza replace the labour inspectors; we are proposing that the work of the Labour Inspectorate be strengthened, that we help you from the tools we have in the public administration. And if we need to fine-tune the contents of the initiatives, we are willing to talk; we have not come up with any counter-proposals, beyond the compromise, which tells us that the Government will continue to do what it is doing. And also, in this case, it seems to me that overly complacent, taking advantage of the fact that there are great achievements, which I cannot share.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Ottagon, there's no need to speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, Socialists, yes, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u83	I'll see if I can be brief, but I don't know if I'm gonna get it. Let's see, Mr Hernández, one thing is to collaborate, that I have also talked about the need for collaboration between bodies and between administrations, and another thing is to do the functions. And I'm going to talk to you about a third reason. In my first speech I spoke to him about two reasons. Well, I'll give you a third. And I'll tell you about the presumption of certainty. You say that they are given training to then transfer information and that they can use it to carry out sanctioning actions. If there is no rule that does not give you the presumption of certainty of what you have seen, it does not serve the labour inspector what the local police or the Ertzaintza would have seen in order to carry out that sanctioning action, because it does not have the presumption of certainty, because the regulations do not recognize it. Which wouldn't do any good. The labour inspector would have to go and carry out the on-the-spot check. It's just that you already do that. It is not right, then, to make arrangements which then serve absolutely nothing, because for that reason there are already the mechanisms that exist, which is communication through this collaboration, through complaint or through communication, for the work of the Labour Inspectorate to be carried out. And you don't need anything else, because it's not going to have any effect on what you've seen, because it doesn't count on the presumption of certainty. The same thing happened a long time ago with Osalan's technicians. I don't know if you'll know. I did, because in my performance at the Labour Inspectorate, years ago, the technicians in Osalan did not have the presumption of certainty, so that what a technician in Osalan saw could not be used by a labour inspector to carry out his punitive action. And Osalan technicians have training in occupational safety and health. But, however, because they did not have that presumption of certainty, what they could have seen could not be used. And perhaps the labour inspector was going and there was no longer exactly the same conditions as the Osalan technician saw, and the sanctioning action could not be carried out. For exactly the same thing happens with what you have proposed. I mean, it's worth the denunciation, it's worth the communication, that it can be done between bodies and between administrations, with what there is, and each one who is dedicated to doing the work for which it is formed. The police to prosecute crimes and the Labour Inspectorate to carry out administrative proceedings to be carried out. And do whatever collaboration is necessary? Of course. But Mrs Llanos has already spoken about the difference between administrative and criminal law. I'm not going to lie there anymore. It's just that there are some differences. Everyone has to do their job and do it with as many staff as possible to have the greatest number of performances, which is what I have said, which is being done and done well, because here in the Basque Country we have been pioneers. I have already said that from the Department of Labour and Justice, since the beginning of 2017, we have seen the need to carry out such campaigns to control temporary and part-time contracts. Now, at the national level they have done the same thing we have been doing for a year and a half now. In July, the Government of Pedro Sánchez launched the Master Plan that I have just said about the 2018-2020 Labour Inspectorate, where all these campaigns will be increased, which have begun, these extraordinary campaigns in two phases that have begun since August and since this summer, and which will continue with face visits now, which will be carried out for those who have not regularized in the first phase, now, from October onwards. In addition, the number of national labour inspectors will be increased by 25%, which has not happened in the history of the Labour Inspectorate. So we're on the right line. We see that need, but we do so by the way that is good, by the right way, by the way that it gives good results, by not making arrangements that in the end serve absolutely nothing and the only thing that it does is to remove police officers from what they really have to do and, of course, in the municipalities where they do not have, they do not count in many municipalities, as Mrs Otamendi has said, with people or with staff in order to carry out those functions. Load them with more functions, which moreover do not correspond to it and which will not serve, moreover, as I said, absolutely for nothing. That if they see anything, they transmit the complaint to the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Inspectorate will do it, as it has been doing. There is no need to change anything in that regard. That is why we do not agree with what you have proposed. And Mrs Llanos said she was going to vote against the initiative put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos. I hope that I will vote in favour of the amendment to the whole that we have tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, because it is the one that goes in the right direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u84	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u85	Thank you, ma'am. Firstly, I would like to make a comment on Mrs Otamendi's defence and the materialization of her amendment, mainly from point two of her amendment. Only to comment that in addition to sharing and defending what has been agreed on the bases and, in this case in particular, the seven paragraphs of the section on socio-occupational policies and employment, contained in the fifth base, does not come into being as a response, today, to the proposal put to debate by Mr Hernández. Today. Mr Hernandez, it is you who defined this issue initially as possible Martian. I never would have said it, no. And that you were going to show us that you weren't. I believe that there is good will on the part of all political groups, and I say all of them, to show you that – and that is why I have used the concept of occurrence, which is an unexpected idea without weighing it down – to show you that initially we are all concerned, without any doubt, we are all concerned and we share what you are wanting to move on that initiative, but really the consequences of the implementation of the concrete action that you intend, we believe or understand and that is what we have moved you, which can be much more serious than what you have apparently weighed. And I think we've all been on that line today. Mrs Otamendi spoke to him about the reality of small municipalities, the differences between administrative and criminal offences, and many other issues. I was talking to him about the specialisation of tools. And I believe that what we are talking about is fine-tuning the focus, the focus of those concrete actions. And before that, I also spoke, at the first point, of a structural solution or a short-term solution. The structure is, the current structure is. The current structure of the Inspection may need more, and it is the Inspectorate's competence to deal with these issues. You may need to improve that reality, that structure. Okay, okay, let's talk about that. But it's there. There's that structure and there's that competition. Exclusive competence of inspection officials. And so is the collaboration. And so is the collaboration. He's here, and they've explained it to him. And that's a short-term solution. A judge needs it to work in a certain way and asks for a solution, and it's short-term. But you don't propose that on your initiative. You don't propose that on your initiative. And that's what I wanted to move. You change, that is, you propose a structural change. Because what you say, you say, and I read it, is, "Create specific inspection units in the police." I've synthesized it more and more. Create, yes, yes, read it: "Create specific inspection units in Ertzaintza and local police." That's what he's asking us and that's a change in the structure. Indeed, I believe, and I say again, that it is important that we put forward the use of increasingly precise tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Miss Llanos from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u87	Yes, Madam President, with your permission from the seat, just for nurturing two small questions. Mr Hernandez, you have now said something else. But in his initiative he talks about verifying compliance with the legality of the police, in justification, and that we bet to take advantage of these resources to deal with the social scourge, that is, to ensure that they are monitored. In point one, in relation to the municipalities, provide resources to be able to control the working conditions in the respective municipalities and create specific units of labour inspections to transfer information, that is, to inspect, in the final analysis, and to pass these data to the Labour Inspectorate. You now say no, but what comes to be requested on your initiative, to which I do not rest a single apex of goodwill but comes to request that the Ertzaintza and the local police do functions as labour inspectors. And he said in his reply that it's sometimes difficult for labour inspectors to get there. And that difficulty, in your opinion, will be solved by intervening directly with the local police or the Ertzaintza? Is it not better to articulate measures to ensure that this difficulty is overcome by the labour inspectors who are responsible for carrying out this work? The collaboration is given. Of course, the Ertzaintza intervenes at the request of the Labour Inspectorate or provides it in turn with data to the Labour Inspectorate. And calmly, Mr Aiartza, that if we have one thing clear to the whole House too, it is that for the Basque Nationalist Party, too, the competences are always better here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u88	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together with the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u89	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 18; contraries, 55; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u90	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Finally, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-11.u91	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. I'll read you an institutional statement next. The institutional representation of the International Day of Girls. "The Great Assembly of the United Nations, December, 2011, appointed the 11th of October to remind and enlarge the whole world of Neski, girls, children, teenagers, and women, who suffer from the state of neglect, equality, and violence. "Nabarm has improved the daily life of girls, as well as of children, as of teenagers, yet we must consider the researchs published in Basques, such as ISEI-IVEI, the diagnostic of the genital women's mutilation in the Euscal Autonomia Echimia, the payer, or the trader, sexbus and sexual exploitation. They're also there, CEAR-Euskaki, building collective and made by the social institutions of Save the Child. They all show that, as a woman, they find difficulties and a state of inadequacy. "In the field of education and especially in the adolescent stage, a differentiated choice of educational and professional project on the basis of gender persists. Thus, professions linked to education, health, care or social work are strongly feminized, and yet those linked to computer, industry or technology, strongly masculinized. "On social networks, girls and adolescents are more exposed to sexist cyberbullying, and there is also what is known as the second and third gender digital divide. "Trafficking for sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation and sexual abuse are the most serious manifestations of inequalities and violence faced by girls and adolescents simply because they are women. "These are some examples of phenomena and violations of rights that are occurring in the world and in Euskadi, and that we have the will to prevent, reverse and eradicate. For this reason: "Bat; the Basque Parliament declares that girls and adolescents in Euskadi and the world simply because they are women, are more exposed to discrimination inequalities and machista violence. "Bi; the Basque Parliament undertakes to continue to work on all legislative and administrative measures necessary to improve the situation of girls and adolescents, placing the principle of the best interests of the girl child at the centre of all public policies. "Hiru; the Basque Parliament undertakes to continue to work towards the real and effective equality of women and men and the eradication of gender-based violence, as they are the main causes of situations of rights violations faced by girls and adolescents simply because they are women". As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-one in the afternoon.
