ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I inform you that the fourth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The legal proposition of the popular religion of the law of legislation, in order to take measures which will help to produce a greater cohesion of the Eroscal educational system. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we'll go straight to the discussion without having to read it. According to the performance of 149. and 86.2 articles of rule, the discussion will be started with the representation of the legislative legislation, in order to present and defend their enterprise. Then there's a shift and another turn, even 30 minutes. And after that, two shifts to answer, ten minutes. After the vote, one turn will open for the vote. So first, Mr. Rey has the word to bridge.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President, members of the legislature, workers of this legislature, campaign committees. Good morning, everyone. As a matter of fact, this tribe opens up the platform of some popular team for the first time, this is our impression, I'd say, "vaya regate," the last play in the last week. However, as we have reached this point, we will take advantage of our opportunity, and at this point we will try to defend the propriety of this tragedy with two essential ideas: On the one hand, we shall repress the respect due to some legal people, and, on the other hand, a few reflections on the necessity of a school-relation, and especially on the need of an effective answer. As I said, we are going to start with a consideration of the instrument of citizen participation, which is a popular legislative initiative, an instrument of semi-direct democracy and which we believe deserves consideration by this House, at least one not disregarding the work done by the platform. Who are we? We're a small association with different agents. I think we've done a very valuable job with our parents' associations, with some unions, with the Public School Management Society, with other small associations... And we have spent months in fulfilling the conditions which this house prescribed, the necessary to fulfil, to bring here, as it were, a dispute and proposition as a citizen. To take it in thousands of lumps, to express our ideas a hundred times, to listen to other people's experiences and views, to collect signatures... For the first time in electronics, using a software of the European Parliament, and for the first time retaining it for the first time, because we've maintained it to collect some kind of electronic signatures from this European software. And after all this, we find the one that's been through last week, that "criterio desfavorable." We are presented with a future law, of which there is still no preliminary draft and which we also consider, from the platform I represent here, not to contradict our initiative. In this sense, we did want to do a site; it has been done by the associations that form part of this platform in recent days: the Federation of the AMPA of the Public School, yesterday the Association of Directors of the Public Schools. We make a place to debate and address this issue, which, then, if the law arrives in time, if the law manages to arrive in time, perfectly. We have seen that there are other ILPs that have been dealt with; these articles can be subsumed, they can be integrated. And, in any case, if I did not allow it to arrive in time, urgent measures could be taken, which could then, later on, be integrated into future laws, through derogatory provisions and so on. We haven't met alone... We also wanted to point out that we have not only found this announcement of the doorway to the initiative, but above it will be a severe break, and you know it, because we have moved it to it. In that regard, I would like to point out that, along with the door, we have detected what we consider to be a trap in the procedure, which does not exist, by the way, in such an aggravated way in other regulations. We've been looking at Parliament. But, of course, we find this last transplant, this frenzy, when we had already met all the requirements. And with this I wanted to finish a little reflection on the experience of citizen participation in an institution such as Parliament, saying that, although we generally encourage people to get involved in social issues and political issues, our experience, frankly, given the announcement, because we would say that I look around with a popular legislative initiative. You've got your risk! The second consideration is on the issue of the seriousness and urgency of the very subject of school segregation. No one denies it to-day, for the first time it was denied, and in this sense we turn to the better, but we must remark that the difficulties we have found in this discussion, and the air of veto, are not a sign of normality. And on the other hand, from transparency, we've been using some data in our campaign that has been published by the Basque Bugs by the School Council, which I think are quite interesting, giving a radioography. And the data we've worked for the campaign hasn't been published since this year. The area, somehow unbalanced... The balances in the area. And we wanted to talk about that, too, with the transparency, didn't we? The very phenomenon of school segregation, and that is a key issue when it comes to putting forward very concrete measures, eight articles, five measures that we bring in, is a phenomenon that is like a two-sided currency. They are two communicative glasses blocked, and that is a fundamental issue. Because it is not only a phenomenon by which there is a concentration of students with difficulties and support needs in some centres, but there is an exclusion from that studentship in other centres. In its extreme version, there are centers that are ghetto centers, and other centers that are bunker centers, where does not enter this student with disabilities, with socio-economic needs, scholarships, with late incorporation into the education system. Sure, and why is that a problem? I don't know if it's already in this diagnosis what the dimension of the problem is. Basically, briefly, for three reasons: First, it is a violation of the right to education of those who are in the ghetto; we brought a specialist from Catalonia, who quoted a French sociologist, who has a lot of experience in this, and said: because the school basically... the right to education, basically, what is it? Is it having better football courts? Within a few margins, teaching is important, but within a few margins, there are also huge differences, as on average, in different centers. The big difference, and the school is a fundamental element for learning, the school is above all the students who go with you to school, those are fundamental and, in that sense, accumulate in certain centers to all those who have greater difficulties, because it is a huge backpack, a huge ballast, that is violating the law... violating the right to education. Then, on the other hand, as I have said, there are students in the bunk, and we must consider this also. What kind of education are they getting? What value? What experience? And of course, combining them between the ghettos and the bunkers, of course, not in education, but like society, right? What form of society are we building, from cohesion, into each other's life? The Sindani of Catalonia has made some very interesting reports about this, and he remarks that it's a clock bomb that's incubating in some way. And that must be observed. Some people think it's a problem in a corner. Well, no, it'll affect the whole community in a way. And, well, our proposals are precise, they are protected by the report of the Ardala, the Basque Council, the Alexandria Council... they are drawn up, and applied to a level of nationality. And we must make it clear, that these fundamental propositions do not deny, at all events, the role of Christian Schools or Schools. I don't know if that's understood. It's the main line up here between the hedges between the bunkers and those ghettos to deal with the bumper fences, isn't it? And that's our point of view, isn't it? "actuar sobre sobre laughs, Tells laughs que están denand a unos a alumnos a non man de centers y que impeniten que en eros." They are tangible and also intangible barriers; there are all kinds of barriers. Not all are economic reasons, no; one of the axes that is the approach that we do – and we know that it is not the only one – the free versus co-op public school axis, we know that it is not the last axis, there are others, and that is why there are other measures that not only affect quotas. To cite, simply, the experience on the subject of quotas. We make the campaign very clear: I encourage you to do some opinion polls and so on, because there is a total lack of knowledge about the legal regime and the freeness of that service, a total lack of knowledge. That is why there are proposals there for transparency, for control, and which have a special significance, being the largest concerted network in Europe that we have, together with Flanders, but no, our educational situation does not compare with the French system or the German or English system, in terms of the weight that concerted education has; of course, this problem of copayo has a huge dimension, because it affects half of the network. We have a hypothesis – I will dare – of why we are saying no to this debate. We believe that the denial phase has already passed and we are already talking about proposals; there is a dilemma about what kind of proposals. There are proposals that just want to go to the palliative care of schools that are at a disadvantage, a kind of money for the poor, some other resource, some other teacher; but there are other measures that they propose is to break the huge imbalances that exist and seek a balance between the networks. They seek not only to affect those centres which are socially disadvantaged, but also those centres which are in a privileged situation, to affect their reality. And that's the key: we think that's one of the problems with measures. Because he mentioned the issue of quotas; of course, in such measures that affect the great imbalance between networks, quotas have a great impact: Kristau Eskola has already proposed that, in order to comply with the law's gratuity, they would need 25% more funding, right?That's what they've been up to since Kristau Eskola. What we consider from the platform, in any case, is that it is unsustainable, because the concert is not in question through entrusting the management of public service to religious or cooperative entities or so; what is in question in this initiative is the conditions under which this service is being arranged. It's a service that's not sustainable with that copayo, with that total misinformation about its gratuitousness, and not according to a diversity that the rules themselves... the attention to that diversity imposes on them, to the extent that they are enjoying public money, isn't it? We know that, apart from economic issues, there is a topic of fear; we have seen it in the campaign, aporaphobia, that phobia a little to problems related to poverty. We know that that also exists and we've detected "I suppose it will also happen between you," he said, "that there are people who react to this a little bit disconcerted: what a mess!, what a mess if we have to rebalance this now, and there is a temptation to do the ostrich. But we're not naive. We also know that people are already aware of the situation and have no intention of removing those barriers, those barriers that prevent a type of student from reaching those bunker centres, those more elite centres. Thus, we wanted to put an end to the parties that had raised doubts about the adequacy of our initiative. On the one hand, the Basque Socialist Party will simply be asked to act in line with its actions in recent months, participating, together with the platform, in the presentation and processing of the initiative. No more. The PNVri and Popular Party really: we really believe that our proposals are entirely compatible with your values. I don't know, ideologically, Christian democracy or liberalism as a kind of chimpanzee, do we believe that real liberalism is compatible? and we really think and invite him, in a way, to arrive and deep in this discussion, don't we? I'm done; I'm done. Maintain this status quo A veto and this debate, which we believe will prolong the barriers and segregating mechanisms that exist in our educational system. All you have to do is see the results, the reality of great imbalance, with schools for the poor and with bunker centers where this type of student with specific needs is not attended. And, as we have proclaimed outside, give the argument and lead the way to the ILP. That's all, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Sabin Bridge. Next, we'll open a side shift. Who's talking? Well, then, we'll start together with Mr. Comomos, a representative of the Podomos. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u3	Thank you, ma'am. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. Good morning, too, to all of you who have come to this gathering of the whole world, and our thanks, in fact, by building bridges to the leaders of the nation. Ye are great: You got 17,000 signatures. My gratitude. Thank you, also, E.H.I.E.E.E.S.E.E.E.S. and the Basque Committee, as well as the LAB union, for protection granted on Tuesday, for a series of platforms, and a thousand thanks to all of you who have contributed with his signature to the institutionalal education. What a neighbourhood! What a neighbourhood, Mr. Urkullu, Mrs. Uriart! Congratulations, really, because we're here, and thank you so much for putting school-segation on our political euskal schedule. It is 9:50 on Thursday, 4 October, an hour, which can be remembered in two ways, when this debate ends: as the day this Parliament throws the fences and opens its doors to the debate, opens its doors and enables citizen participation, opens the doors to citizen debate and proposals that citizens directly have the right to bring and that are taken into consideration in this Parliament. Or, on the contrary, something else can happen: that this Parliament says no to people, that it says no to citizen participation and that it turns its back on 17,000 people – more than 17,000 people – who have supported the first ILP of this legislature and with the new methodology. We'll see how it ends. We and we have it clear, and I'm sorry, the truth, what can happen, what has been announced. Because I think I could shut up, subscribe word by word, point by point, the words of Sabin Zubiri – the representative of the ILP – and sit down and I would already be sufficiently explained. Baina, Elkarrekin Podeetik, gure babesa eman genion ekimenari, beldurrik gabe eta razoi deberdinengatik, lehenengo egunetik. First, because the segregation exists, and we must speak of what exists, and of the papers of governments, in the words of governments... it does not speak of it. Also because we believe that the measures taken by the ILP are simple, quick, complicated measures also to apply in some cases... But these are measures that deserve to be discussed. Son medicas: They demand a free instruction; it is opposed to the direct or indirect quadrangles; they say that the index of the school-premium is to be established by the proposers, and that the process of license is to be united by the caring-offices in the zoos. It is only evident that the proclamation of this proposition, if it be also the proposal of many platforms, is also ours, and the government does nothing in this sense. Proposatzen du, maita ére, itunak ez tell her berriztatu behar desberdintasun sozialeko ikasleentzako arrest clueless jakin beat helpzen ez say eliteko ikastetxeekin. Why give more privileges to the privileged? Why give more advantages to the advantaged? And why not make positive discrimination, as he proposes? Biztanleria kaltetu gehien duten ikastetxeak baliabide gehiagoz hornitu behar dira eskola-komunitaren age Administrationan arteko hitzarmenen bidez. Why not make positive discrimination with those who need it most, and not give more advantages to those who have the advantage? He said that the initiative is clear, it is simple; although I am not going to say that it is not complex to launch it. The only thing he seeks is a more equitable and inclusive Basque education system. These are simple and viable measures, as Mr Sabin Zubiri has explained: limiting privileges, promoting social cohesion, promoting diversity... The diversity that exists on the other hand, however much some and some do not want to see it. And diversity that is not left, but enriches. However, over the course of these months, it has been seen in the presentations, in the debates we have in the last two years and before in this Parliament, that not all parliamentary groups think the same. And well, that may seem normal, but we are talking about the social cohesion of the education system, and that means the social cohesion of our society. And I can understand – and I think it has already been said – that the Basque Nationalist Party has a very concrete model and that it does not share these measures of the initiative. And from the People's Party, then, I could also expect the same; the democratic Christian spirit that both parties can have, the liberal spirit, that spirit that we see in their educational model, has already been mentioned, but I think we need to ask questions today. Questions have to be asked, I'm sorry, it's up to you ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. What happened? What's happened these weeks? What happened to EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos, Socialist Party... have we accompanied a popular legislative initiative, since the first day, with sincerity? And now we don't know very well what's going to happen either. If we rely on the Government's approach we know what is going to happen; we do not know if there are going to be surprises, we do not know whether the Socialist Party is going to let go of the ILP or support it. Nor do we know the price of turning our backs on this initiative for school equity. I, sincerely – and also I say this to you from the heart – do not understand, Mr. Pastor. I don't know what he will tell us later; I don't know – what I think they should be more concerned about – what they will tell their voters, because I don't know if this backslash or 'door behind' – better said – to this ILP, because it may be a symptom of the new political time; I hope it isn't. Sabin Zubiri, representative of the ILP, has clearly explained the reasons for taking the ILP into consideration and what measures are proposed. We are not going to repeat them again, but I do want to bring three facts to this House, which I believe help, which illustrate... to the people who get up in the morning thinking about this ideal Euskadi and who do not read the statistics and who do not pass through the segregated schools, through the ghettos of which Mr Zubiri spoke. Three facts: Euskadi is the autonomous community or region of all Europe that has the most subsidized private education. The European average for public education is over 80%; here 50%. Or, if not, knock on the door in Navarre, knock on the door in Iparralde and look at the data too, that we would have to drop our face of shame. Two: over the last 10 years, the rate of school segregation by socio-economic criteria, i.e. by criteria... – not only – by class criteria, it has increased almost 9 % in Euskadi. And three: it is the public school that supports the highest percentage of scholarship students, students with specific educational support needs. And he does it with the same or with less means than any other kind of education. And the ILP – and Sabin Zubiri explained it in this rostrum – did not go towards the elimination of concerts either. What I was looking for is equity, which can, even in your terminology, compete in equality. That's three data I've given. Three realities that his Government refused to assume, refused to recognize and what was more serious, refused to act on them. And preparing for this intervention, I was going to say to them: well, open your eyes at once, but I don't think so, that they have them closed to us that have them well opened, that they don't listen to what the Ararteko says, nor to what the Euskadi School Council says or what Save the Children says, and much less to what the educational community says, and I regret it. I'm sorry they don't listen, but I'm sorry to realize that I was so innocent, that I didn't realize that it's your model. This segregation model, this segregation model by networks, segregation by class and segregation by origin, is the model that you are defending, turning your back, for example, on this ILP, with the educational measures it has. Because the Euskadi educational model is not equitable, it is not inclusive, and, if it is excellent, it is because it has a fighting educational community. Euskadin, family, irakasle eta hezkuntza-langile hobezinak dauzkagu. Egunero daude borrokan, gure gasteek hezkuntza publikoa eta kalitatezkoa izan dezaten. Gaur, zuen bozkekin, ez dakit Alderdi Sozialistaren bozkekin, eztabaida ukatuko duzu, zeren gaur eztabaida ahalbidetzeaz eztabaidatzen ari gara, ez ekimenaren edukiaz. But I think it's worth looking at the government's arguments, the unfavorable approach; those rather cheap excuses. They say that there is a law of education in progress; I say: what law of education in progress? They've signed a labor agreement with the unions, which we're going to talk about now. They have signed an agreement on bases without the support of the educational community. We do not know if a preliminary draft will come; it will come, we do not know. Hezkuntza-lege berriy martxan dagoela diazue; guk ez dugu ikusten. Law now martxan dagoenez, ezin da beasts gay eztabaidatu? Orduan, dugued white nut? Jarri date bat... The agreements you bring here have been rejected by the educational unit, and they have received a round refusal. How long before the project? Why do we have to wait? Why can't this ILP take place? How long do we have to wait? And then they say there's an agreement signed with the unions on labor materials. Right. And they put it as an excuse not to process the ILP. Lie. Communiqué of one of the trade unions (Orri bat erakusten du, eta gero hura irakurtzen du) "... if we consider the false argument used: on the one hand, thanks to the education contest, there have been a great deal of improvement in the cultivation conditions and the improvement of education, but the question of the segregation is not answered at all (... ......... Berriro was dung duet: segregate the oranges ez zaz zăio inundík inorienta erantzuten. So don't make excuses to the unions; don't make excuses to the social side because you don't have their backing. "EAJ has no protection from any of the principal teachers of education and education. The Operators have been left outside, among other things, owing to the horrible gaps in the proposition and the lack of will which EAJ has been able to accept. These agents accuse him of using false arguments and lies, to drive a popular opinion insolently away." Do not put parapets on the social side, because you do not have their backing, and they are not my words, they are words of themselves, that they have their own mouthpieces to do so. But neither do they need nor do we need this ILP to be given easy, cheap excuses and to be easily rebutted. Don't you want the debate? Well, say it. Like this. Once again, we attended... I don't know, some kind of government theater. A government we see here; we see the great interventions, the great roles, and we see if the government so participatory, so democratic, so Auzolan Auzolan [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u4	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u5	But we do not lose hope, the truth; we do not lose hope, they say it is the last thing that is lost. I hope someone will react, and I say it again by looking at you, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Socialist Party. Zer aldatus from azken these hauetans? Berriro galdetzen duet. Badakigu took aurreko horietan part hartu zenutela lege-prosomenean eta Honen Beharrean sinesten zenutelako. Eta gehiago cuckoo: sinesten duzuelako. But then, what's changed? What has changed gentlemen of the Basque Socialist Party these weeks? I hope in these minutes there's time to change again. We know that you were, as I said, in those press conferences because you believed in these proposals, even sometimes we reached agreements in the Committee on Education. I would say that you continue to believe in this bill; I sincerely say so. But I don't know what's changed; I don't know what's changed these weeks. All I hope, for the sake of democracy in our country, for the sake of that mechanism of popular legislative initiative that we have to deal with today, is that you support that ILP. I don't expect anything from the PNV and the PP. EH Bildu, I know what you're going to do. We and we know what we're gonna do. You're the only ones left for this ILP to come forward. We will agree together from Podemus because it is necessary to tramitation, because it is necessary and necessary to apply the measures of the controversy and of the segregation. We do it for discussion, we do it for the elimination of school segregation in Euskadi as well, and we are willing and willing to reach agreements in this process of this ILP. I wish it were done! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u6	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u7	Good morning, everybody. Mrs. Orrill, Mr. Urkullu. Congratulations! Congratulations to the citizen and his community team who are behind these 17,000 signatures. Congratulations on the bridges that have been driven by this popular legislator to build platforms and all operatings, and especially in the everyday schools, in the neighborhoods... With neither the protection nor the lack of protection of this Board of Education, the segregation, the social... the professors, the citizens, who are working to overcome it... They. The professors, the citizens working for the equality of opportunities, for the barrier of society... Congratulations. Because they got it all right because they know... that it is one of the greatest challenges as society, and not only that it is a challenge to education, but that it is a challenge to a whole society, and that it is the most important means of transcending the social differences of education, because they know not only because they believe that there is no excellence without equity, because there is no inclusion, because there is no education. I congratulate you on your commitment and complication, and for your partnership in the neighbourhood, for your involvement... For your predominance and initiative. At these times, the commitment, the neighborhood, the responsibility... The ability to take over one's self is so weak. Therefore, because we are speaking of the depth of democracy, of equality, of not leaving any one behind, of cohesion, inculsion, of construction of the future, of every man's choice, of building the people, of solidarity, not charity, that is, of all, the reason that at the present day, the Basque Country will consent to this legislative of the people, because we have an opportunity, because we are present in the presence of an opportunity. And, no doubt, we speak of human rights. Because we have a complete commitment to equality, to inclusium, to every citizen of this country, and to every one of them. And we'll continue to work in order to face the segregation, to open our privations, to open the discussions, to bring us contributions, share contributions, subsidence, and need... The measures must be applied, because it is important to apply. We're late, we've already passed over society, Mrs. Uriarte. We have more and more complex society, and it's getting bigger than social life is stabilizing it. And, Mrs. Uriart, we can't go on looking the other way. We know that the subject is extremely complex, we know that the subject is not easy, and we know that, in the legislative of the people, we must form the necessary measures, but we need all our contributions, and besides, Mrs. Uriart, you have 17,000 citizens, ready to share the responsibility, to act in the shared leadership of which you so loudly proclaim, take advantage of this. You see, about this subject, even Monday, we talked at the Board, and I said to your teammates: it is not merely responsibility for the Board of Education. We're ready to share the responsibility, but you're not even ready for it either. Or else, you have a different social model in which the first-class populations will be present, and there will be a secondary population, where education will become a privilege, where those who have a specific social condition will have study, and the rest will be cheap work, where the public school will be a school for the poor, and I will tell you one thing: this challenge is not only the public school, this challenge belongs to everyone. And the messages are not enough, the messages must be of great help, and they begin from what each one does, and what he does in the neighborhood and in the villages is of immense importance. Segregation parameters, they're not the same everywhere. Of course, there's a common basis, but in place we need local measures, we need an umbrella, and we need a specific educational policy. But the exact politics of education are not enough; we need a employment policy, we need a housing policy, we need a language policy. What for? To build neighborhood schools, build neighborhoods, build villages, the dynamic neighborhood villages, the inclusive... To build. Look, it's in every report we've got in hand that the citizens of low socialome, immigrants, who are from around here, but who have a parent from a foreign country... That they're caring their children in the neighborhood schools. The rest of us should do the same, right? And what does the Board of Education do in the schools, in those neighboring homes to guide their plates? What does the neighbourhood building do to reflect the multiplicity of its neighbors? The diversity in our discourses remains wonderful; but in reality, Mrs. Uriart, do we like multiplicity? Is he a better Basque with a social bonus? Because the problem is not migration, the problem is poverty. The Board of Education understands nothing, or seeks to understand nothing, and does not mean anything, although we have opened the means to it. She didn't want to admit that there was segregation until last year, and I don't even know if you want to see it now. The education system we have is not effective, our education system is a preventive organization, a shiller, I don't know how many networks, I don't know how many languages, the result in preventivement, where the ISEC indicator is clearly affected by the results. So, don't you think we should take advantage of the profound crisis we think to adapt to new times? To adapt to the new society? And above all, to look into the future and make a reorganization? The education system currently established is not compatible either socially or economically, and requires a reorganization. Education can no longer fill the corresponding equal function. And it doesn't matter, like if students are numbers, at schools, among nets... the separation. No, that's not what we're talking about, we're talking about inclution. We're talking about working 'Liodo de perencia' for every citizen to feel that he's part of this place. And you know what's going on? Educational system has failed. It's a dramatic situation, and I'm not exaggerating, Mrs. Bengochea. In our suburbs, we're forming parallel societies. Even when we visited the Gasteize Schools, we saw that these students didn't know the center of the Gasteize: they did not know that they lived in Euscadin or Basque Country. Even in small towns, it's a big break. And it affects us all, and we'll all pay for it if we don't cancel it. I don't know whether to give you the data today, because we're on the board all the time, but here, you're not much on the committee, and I'm gonna throw the data away. Look. Euskaki has lowered his social gnomical culture: 0.03 to minus 0.25 is down. EAE, 2012 to 2019, the segregation is increased by 87%, when it was going to turn the opposite. From 10 to 10 students in a vulnerable state, 7 students learn to high concentration schools, and it affects 46% of schools,6, of which 88,9% of the public headlines. And many other facts. And even during the diagnosis, we saw the results. Well, that's the panoama we have. So, ladies and gentlemen EAJ, I don't know what you're gonna do today, but well, it's pretty obvious. But really, the dictatorship you've given is a disgrace. It's embarrassing, full of excuses. And if your aim really is to make a fundamental arrangement, then you ought to consent, because the agreement is made among all, and the agreement is not to obey all others. There is no agreement unless the contribution of all of us be considered, and that's your regular behavior, isn't it? On behalf of the interview, no interview, no negotiation, no negotiation. And the agreement, what is it? The rest of you to obey what you say. We don't deserve this Board of Education. It's closed, it's defensive, it escapes responsibility, it's not capable of facing the future. Only works in active mode. Little things that have been accomplished have been accomplished since the mutations, after a lot of struggles, after a lot of pressures... Mrs Harper, you haven't understood anything. You don't understand anything. It is not credible that the government's judgment and the arguments received there. In the fundamental agreement, there was no segregation employed and no will to resist segregation has hitherto been shown. Look: if you really had a will, you ought to turn the argument to-day, and then, if you like, get what you've done there in the law. Bolt... There are different options. And another example of this is, that the patterns which are exhausted are SCRIPTA, B, and David; we also made a proposition to overcome it, and there you shut the door as usual. You block any contribution without any discussion. You refuse anything that isn't yours, and that's not democratic. That's not democratic! And I'll tell you one thing, Mrs. We're not here to hurt anyone, we're not going to attack. We're here to work. To share responsibilities, debates, differences. Sometimes we'll make a deal, sometimes we won't. But aha! Why? We're here to work because we love this town. Because we love this town, and because we truly believe that education is the property of a society and of a people. And I'll finish with two major ideas, so that you understand better: Look. I want what I have for others, or at least I try. My grandparents, my grandfather and grandfather, like others, had nothing. Nothing! They had to do a lot of work. A lot. Work and work. Fight and fight. They had no opportunity to study our fathers and mothers. Well, there were a lot of fighting. And we, thanks to them, have had the opportunity to learn and have had the opportunity to learn in peace, and education has become a right to it. Now what? Are we gonna lose all that? Are we gonna lose all that we've done? Are we gonna lose all that we won? And to finish another idea, see if you can understand it better. Look: In investing in education means dealing with segregation. What for? He's not here today, but he's not here to spend less expense in the department Mrs. Artolari's department, and to invest in education means that Mr. Binger's Zupiria is more "life" more, yes. And if we face the segregation, too, Mrs. Tapia will have a more trained citizen to develop 5.0. And if we continue to invest in education, all the citizens will have a chance, like Mr. Erkoeke, to meet the wonderful mountains of the Basque Country at the end of the week. And if we continue to resist, for inculation, for cohesion, Mr. Urcullu will have more citizens who will feel it, who will be ready to contribute to the Basque and Balque Country's political status. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. No one seems to be involved in the reverse round, so we'll make a call for the vote. [[Berber]] Please, silence, because it's good to bring in some popular faith here, but it's first to be respected by the congressmen who are here, so I won't accept another. Now that the dispute is over, it is agreed upon whether the legislation of the legislature is considered or not. We can vote. What, it's not working? You got that card right? Give it back. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u9	So the legislation of the legislature was ignored. Next, we're going to vote and first Mrs. Juana Bengoeche, representing the Basque Potion Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The People's Group has voted no to the processing of this ILP, and let me explain to you why. In our opinion, with all due respect –I respect that at times our group has not been expressed, especially in some recommendation made to the PNV by the proposer, but we do respect everyone–... As I say, in our opinion and with all due respect, this popular legislative initiative should not be debated, because it does not focus on the problem of education where it should focus, which is, in our opinion, funding. That's a problem I don't think he's dealing with since counseling either. Look, let me read them, please, the first article of the ILP, the first thing they tell us is: "The gratuitousness of teaching will be observed in all centers supported with public funds, so that the responsible department in education will ensure that any open or covert practice of charging fees for teaching is eradicated, developing control mechanisms". This article 1 is making it impossible for more than half of the families – no more than half of them – to choose more than half of the families in the Basque Country. I mean, it's an article that confronts the Basque community. It is not with these kinds of statements, laws and articles that we will achieve a cohesive, equitable and inclusive educational community. No, no, It is not sweeping, from a feather, almost half the educational community. The report of the Basque School Council was presented very recently, and the president was telling us, it will be two or three days, that an educational law must be made yes, but a law that does not go against anyone and a law that is flexible and a law that has a vocation to stay in time. And he told us about very interesting things, which we have to address before we make a law that goes against half the families, because that's what this initiative does. He told us about many things: he told us about the effectiveness of the education system; he told us that the education system receives a great deal of input, that is, a lot of resources, more resources than in any other Spanish autonomy, but that the output, the results, are poor, poor, below the OECD average. And then where did she put the problem? The problem put him in that environment, in the school system, and he talked about internal evaluations of each centre, and that's all we have to solve, before we say that the Basque school system has problems and the fault of everything has the concerted part. And so, what needs to be done is to take away resources. No, you can't focus on problems like that. Here we have a basic funding resource. That does not mean that there are no parts of this initiative that, of course, we respect, with which we do not agree. Here is something very interesting: the index of school need for inclusion, which seems very interesting to us; now, not collective, individual, because for us, the axis of the education system must be the person, the student and the student. And we take this suggestion from this law and want to develop it in future debates and in future interventions. So, that's why, because we believe that the great problem of education in Euskadi is equitable funding, putting the student on the axis of all education, the student and the student. And we believe that this is the way to achieve equity and we do not believe that this legislative initiative does, but, on the contrary, we believe that it confronts the Basque community among themselves, the Basque school community among themselves, which is the last thing we would want to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u12	Good morning. Well, the Socialist Group believes that the debate on inclusive school, on inclusive public school, in order to avoid a two-speed education, must be addressed by this House, because it seems to us important, essential... the updating of our educational system. We therefore shared the Government's initial view that it was in favour of the implementation of that initiative. But we also share with the Government that the area to address this issue should be the committed education law, which must face, on an integral horizon, everything that affects training, with the axis of public school. And we share with the Government that there are members to deal with the issues to which this popular legislative initiative refers, which, as you have recalled, the Socialists have accompanied from the very beginning. And those limbs are in the plans under way to correct segregation and they are in something that matters to us a lot, which is the educational pact that was reached a few months ago. And that pact for us is very important, because it has been a turning point in the relationship between the department and the educational community, and as we highlight in the plenary of general policy – I think exclusively – all the agents who have made it possible deserve our thanks and recognition. But our goal is to expand that pact. And we expected to be able to do so so that the law of education, based on broad consensus, would not be delayed, and in fact we had planned a discussion and a vote to talk about the agreement of bases for education; it was not possible, because the chairman of the commission has decided to postpone this contrast between the groups, to incorporate contributions from all. It is an outstanding task that will, of course, be in the monographic session that we will devote to the committee in a couple of weeks' time. That is why my group believes that the promoters of this initiative should under no circumstances understand today's vote as a defeat, because it is not. As the parliamentary groups and the various governments are well aware, the legislative proposals that we bring together sometimes do not pass this first filter or are substantially modified afterwards. But that is no defeat: the effort made, the work of these months... has been useful, and has managed to put on the agenda, definitely, the need to address educational reforms with that inclusive vision in all aspects and with the public school as axis. Of course, the Socialists want to be present in the debates that await us and the reality of our educational institutions, their shortcomings and their virtues will be in our work. Almost three decades ago we laid the foundations of the public school, which was able to integrate the ikastolas, and which has offered a solid and quality model, a model that we must now review with another great pact that designs the public school for at least the same time, so that education is not subject to the vavenes of political conjunctures. And we want to think that, beyond the differences that have been expressed in this session as regards admission to the proceedings of this ILP, there exists –because it is – a very broad shared awareness that our classrooms must be an advance of the society we want, of equals in diversity, so that no one is left behind. To this end, it must have the necessary resources, the preparation and motivation of teachers, the involvement of families and a basic social and political consensus. Education and health are the first doors to correct inequality, where anyone, living where he/she lives, thinks as he/she thinks and is born where he/she is born or has the income he/she has, must be cared for without distinction. We play our future as a cohesive society, if we are not able to correct the dysfunctions we are encountering in time or if we leave those who have added difficulties to their formation trapped. That is what is at the heart of this initiative, which has brought us here Zubiak Eraikiz, and of the 17,000 people who have supported him. And it's also in the engine that must drive the new education law. The Socialist Group – already announced here – will be committed to that task of building an inclusive and planned public school in the twenty-first century, in which no one should be cornered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u13	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u14	Thank you, President, all of you. It's one of the most important factors to put education society and individuals on the way, the essential element, to promote the equality of people. Therefore, for the Jeltzaan Party of Euco, the scholars are the axis of the educational system: We always have an integrated education of inclusion, equity, and excellence, which answers to new needs in the education of a society which is continually changing. The legislator of the peoples, which we are about to discuss, has the principal end of incluation; so that we agree. It is the end of all who are here, of education and of our schools, of balancing, social cohesion, incluency, culture, and co-operation. The proposition which has come to the legislature is allowed, but the proposition is as legitimate as this, not to share it. We say with all due respect and sincerity that this proposition does not suit us. Likewise, we do not think it proper for us to see the stigmatizer and scrutinators of certain spokes which have been used here today by certain spokesmen. Why did we vote? For a reason, basically. Because the way we all share is not suitable to us as the means and instruments we have chosen to attain. We think it's a mistake to mix with the objective and the tools. In the understanding, the instrument seems to us to have become a goal. First, 11. The legislation program which was planned for legislation is recorded in education, and it is already in the hands and debate of this legislature that the document of the fundamentals of the agreement which has been worked and agreed on by the educational community has been already discussed. Our team believes that this is the law of education to be trained on by the contributions of all of us, the challenges and the fundamental principles and columns of the system which the euscal education system has in its entirety. Undoubtedly, the inclusion must also be among them, because the law of education requires an integral and integrated point of view. On the other hand, although the contrary has been asserted here, the medical administration is not at rest, nor is it less so. He has reflected several thoughts, and there are several measures already taken up: Thousands of hand programs are giving positive results, and within the scope of the inclutive school, the answer to Anita of the Stratic Plana, the attention of students to education II. The plan. New unions of education are cultivated and applied, fostering co-existence and social cohesion. It was arranged in the sacrilegious table that the living plates should be arranged in a balanced manner on different networks; the public offer of labor, the stability of the means, the substitutions from the first day. The necessity of education has been cultivated and established with the vast majority of representatives of the workers. Indicative of that index, the factor it is by different circumstances that the schools and groups which are particularly difficult offer special assistance. These measures may be formed, and other decisions may be taken; the index may be softened, the index might be made rich, the application options might be found more, but they are already in progress. One last thing. There are several factors which operate directly or indirectly in the reality of which we speak; the will to stay with towns, housing policies, employment options, environment characteristics, leisure opportunities, people with similar features. Let us therefore be conscious of all this, and not deceive ourselves, to give the answer to several facts produced by different reasons, which are to be given only by the system of education. I end by reiterating a conviction. A platform, legitimately, has made a proposal, but as legitimate as making a proposal is to disagree with it, on the grounds that it is not adequate. We share the objective, but not the proposed instrument. Despite the discrepancy, we respect the opinion of the 17,000 signatories. That is why we demand respect for the 398,168 people who voted for us, freely and consciously, on the basis of a programme for us to represent them in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u15	Thank you, Mrs. News. Second point on the subject list: "Phum up the other bill of parliamentary teams to ensure the welcome and proper care of people who are to come to an EA. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Aguirre, it's yours to suggest and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, fellow parliamentarians. We're going to Argentina in less than a month here... A delegation of the Parliament: Mr. Barrio, Mr. d'Ajuda, the broad lady, I, Aguirre, Newus, and President Urkullu himself. Gure programan barruan, aurten Mar del Platan egingo den euskal estan hartuko dugu part. Goazenetako batzuk secure the ugliness of the bertan. But for those who have never attended a week in Argentina, because they are going to find something that goes, we can say, from the curious to the extraordinary. To me, personally, what struck me most the first time I went was to meet people, third or fourth generation, who spoke in a fluid euskera, so that then they say it's difficult, doazela Argentinara. And it is also extraordinary to see how they have preserved their customs – well, our customs – for example, the dances of Euskal Herria, as a sort of... in an act of love for their own culture, their identity; I believe that in an act of personal and collective dignity as well. In this Basque week we will meet with people from all over South America, with daughters, grandchildren, biznietas... of those who had to leave Euskal Herria to take refuge from war, from Francoism or from misery, nothing more. That's why, from the Basque week, in addition to the party, the best thing or the best thing is to go along with the people, who tell you their stories, because there everyone has a story, because, like that of a woman, not much older than me, well, who traveled to Argentina by boat with his mother and almost died dehydrated on the trip. Today, he lives in Necochea; his four children study at the University, and speak Basque. They are part of a community, the Basque community abroad, which describes Uruguay's euskaldun Gloria Zuazola. Gloria says: "I belong to the diaspora that came with one hand back and another forward, and due even to the passage, as my father said; the one that came to work honestly, integrate into society and help build, contribute and receive values, without forgetting their customs and traditions, without forgetting their homeland, but also learning to love the other country that opened its doors, educating their descendants, transmitting their own cultural values, without imposing them, giving us an example of honesty, work and solidarity." That is their diaspora, ours too, that of the descendants of migrants, refugees – just like the name –... that of people who had to leave their land in order to live better or, simply, in order to live. That is why it is good for us to know and also to know what the Basque diaspora is, because it helps us to better understand other realities, such as that of the people who arrive at Euskal Herria fleeing from wars and misery. Hence it is very well that the President himself made his confession on the day of the Diaspor, i.e. we are also the emigration of the people, and we cannot look at it another way. That's what we absolutely agree with. It's historic justice. We must take what comes from outside as we are received and received. We must look after those who have decided to stay in our own country, and which only for a few days, in the passage to other places, perform only a few days in our own. We must be the people who can look after us, the people of reception. This we mean, and I think there is a great deal of agreement in this legislature, and, above all, it is chiefly the argument, which is between the people. Guk geuk herritar-elkarteei eta norbanakoei eskertu nahi diegu antolatzeko –eta, henera, ondo antolatzeko – gai izan direlako harrera egokia emateko Euskal Herrira etorri direnai. Because to offer a good welcome is not to distribute chóped snacks, to offer any roof. To welcome is to attend, to listen, to accompany... And I pick up Ana Gabriel's words, that, well, for a while, she's known a little bit what it's like to have to seek refuge in another country. Ana Gabriel says that "when you go away from home, you find very important all the signs of solidarity that come to you, the people who offer you help, the people who make you feel, who open your hands and who are there for you to be better and therefore make you open your hands as well." And that's what you've done, open your hands, generously, for you! Thank you! You've been there, especially when the public has failed, because the public system has failed. It is a good intention, indeed, that we confess, that dear friend, but it is not because he is not keeping up as a country, a strong emigration, which will mark and coordinate the criteria in all respects, education, health, employment. It's not just this summer, there are thousands of people from foreign countries who are here, it's 9% percent of our population. We just saw it. We discussed it. class-regation problem: is it not another part of our migration policy? We need a strong policy of migration, which ought to strengthen it in society for the emigrants; for, according to the data of the view, we have a rather aggressive attitude towards the emigrants in society: we accept them, but do not wish them about us. If we want to be a student, we have to work that too. We need public policies for migration: It is impossible to present a migration plan one day, and to say that we have an emigration on the same day, and that we have no resistance to this crisis. This salt has been clearly seen during the summer: the institutions have been late and ill, and they have made very little noise. And they failed, in our opinion, because the basis of reception was not strong. It is regarded as an emergency condition by the institutions of this year's summer; in a hurry, not planned, or improvised, they have been introduced into old buildings of co-ordination, for instance, by the migrator, sometimes without a shower, sometimes by the time they have left the women and children outside. Answering from a humanitarian emergency point of view does not mean that it can be answered in a sense of social justice; it was not for the sake of will, I am sure, I do not doubt that. Original sin was another: They have given an exception to the emigrants who have arrived in our country, who have refused a fundamental principle: they have not confessed to them universal citizenship; they have treated them as a great people of another rank, and have not treated them equally. And from 2008 we have a law, the law of the Social Services, which is common to us all, and which rightly defines the answer that it was in such a state. For instance, if you get the person with a bus in a vulnerable situation from Logroño, the Bilor or the Donostian, what would you do with these people? Where would the institutions lead? Wouldn't they go to the social services, to the shelters? And then what happened to those who came this summer? What's special about them? They are people who are in a state of delicacy and shelter, as many and many as were here before summer. So, what's changed now? The amount? They came on the bus? Why don't they take them inside the social service system? Is it not perhaps because the system of social services is not properly developed, although it is a proper law? Look, today we're going to talk about La Naval at the following point – well, I don't know what order they're in – I'm going to borrow the metaphor of a companion, who compares the Basque system of social services with a boat: The naval architects designed a good boat, but in the shipyards decided not to pay attention to the plans and so, when the ship had to face the temporary enesimo, it made waters. Using bilge pumps only saves time; there is no choice but to return to port. And that's what happened. When the storm has arrived, we have seen that the Basque system of social services makes water. Patches have been improvised, but this doesn't work. That's why we think that if you're coming to this company, it'll have to adapt our own, compact, and stabilize our own service and preparation system to the right care. We need well-developed systems in order to face such situations and others, in social services, in education, in jobs. You have to open that network all over the country, balance and other organizations and other organizations, and that's why you're going to have to take the wheel of that ship, he's got to be the leader, he's got to coordinate the work, he's got to put the necessary resources on it. Hence we believe that a specialized direction, an emigration, and a direction for manifold cultures, is necessary. We need our own policy; we must here act as a people, we must see a people. If we want to be an advanced people, a worthy people... we must also offer this dignity to those who come to us, and open our hands to ourselves, as when we go out, as we do when we go away. We can't forget that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u18	, ladies: Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days to all. Before we start, I'd like to discuss a part of Helen of the organization's speech with Malenus. Mrs. Maleo has all my admiration for me, she was in this legislature, and I have brought her words into other options: "Let's not be deluded. In the illusion of security we can think that the walls are made to protect us; but no, they are not made for that, they are made to unprotect others and others, those left on the other side and those who, being on the other side, we deprive them of being, of the quality of people. "These non-people are waiting at the gates of the walls and fences, and there are some that we do let go. We let them in because, in order for us to remain people, and above all people who consume, we need their organs, their sex, their workforce. We let them pass as objects of consumption, because we do not deceive ourselves: the walls build slavery, feed great international crimes such as organ trafficking or human trafficking. "There are some," Maleno says, "also waiting at the door of the walls and fences that the matrix defines as violent, as hordes that attack, as enemies, and that gives us the excuse to invest millions of euros in weapons to protect those walls and turn those spaces around walls and fences into zones of conflict and war. "And while the Europeans and the Europeans remain connected to the matrix of security, to the matrix of fear, managing a reality that is not real, on the other hand the non-people struggle in a maze of deadly traps to be able to cross the walls, the fences and the seas, but we do not see them, because that is another function of the wall. "The wall deprives us of the responsibility of our actions, does not let us see what we do to others and to others, makes us feel sure that we are good and welcoming; but all those whom the matrix has defined as slaves, as things, as enemies, also have stories. Stories that explain how they got to the other side, that explain why they're here, because the other side beats a great survival instinct that seeks keys, keys to jump those fences and those walls. But these walls and fences are not as faithful to us as we believe ourselves. And one day, you can say that we are the enemies, that we are good slaves, that we are things, that we are not people and that, therefore, we have to be on the other side of the wall. "My gift," said Maleno, "are the keys that open the doors of walls and fences; more than a gift is an apprenticeship, in case we ever need it." Why am I telling you this? Because this is what this bill is about. As I have said many times in this House, Euskadi is a land of transit and must, of course, be a land of reception for women and men who are on their way to finding a better life in more northerly lands, to which we offer three or five days in an emergency bed, it will not be that they feel welcome. For girls and boys who also come here and who are crowded in centers that triple or quadriple their capacity; I insist, it will not be that they feel welcome. Also for the thousands of treated women and girls who pass through Bilbao as a hot spot in human trafficking. Women and girls who escape us, aimed at living lives of exploitation and misery and to which we are not detecting. For the people who are in the environment of the port, who have not gone or disappeared, and to whom we take away the shops so that they do not make ugly. Definitely, also for the 9% of people of foreign origin living in Euskadi, who suffer mostly from poverty, precariousness and institutional abandonment, as well as for all those who suffer racism and xenophobia on the basis of fear, precariousness or, simply, because there are those who see racism as an opportunity to scratch votes at the expense of anything. Because despite Auzolan, Goiabe, Harrera or Share, there are those who are on the way, more or less like this government to recognize it. It is estimated that there may be more than 70 people sleeping daily in the environment of Zorrotzaurre, between 80 and 130 people who have been welcomed in solidarity by the citizens organized in Bilbao. Much more welcomed by anonymous solidarity. Between 80 and 130 stable people in recent months, whom this government has not known – or has not wanted to – listen to until after presenting its programme of good intentions. People in transit, yes. But, eye, not on vacation, because when the news speaks it looks like they are making the Way of Santiago, and nothing further from reality: neither the road is simple nor are they free to cross its border to France. Usually, after years of crossing deserts, scams, hunger, poverty, aggression, fear, impotence and abuse, many abuses, those who are lucky enough to arrive are tired, hurt and many may need to stop. Is it our duty to prevent them from following their path and project? I don't think so. Is it our duty not to make them feel welcome so they don't stay? Of course not. We must be able to inform and offer commitment, but to them, commitment to their lives, not to survival, to their rights, not to alms, to their future. Ez dugu esan nahi Euskadin ez dela Ezer Egyptian; hori gezurretan ibiltzea izango litzateke. Herritarek have been hemen harrera egiteko exfortzu handia egiteten dute. Beraien lan neketsuak, eskaerak zein proposeamenak Gobernua Bultzatu due, eta aurrerapausoak emateko ezinbestekoak izan dira. But our job is not to come and say how well they do, but to control and propose where we see that there are margins of improvement. And while it is true that this Government assumes that what they are doing is neither perfect nor sufficient, it has an obligation to seek not only sufficiency, but indeed excellence. Because of this, we call the discussion of today very suitable, and we've worked with the team who introduced the initiative to make an arrangement. Because the so-called fit of the Basque Government's strategy for a comprehensive response to the new migration challenges that have been published, and which we know by the press as Share, says it wants to be comprehensive, but it is far from sufficient for the challenge ahead. On the one hand, because good intentions and trust in the government of the State or in that of Europe do not guarantee adequate reception here and now. But, on the other hand, because, according to Elkarrekin Podemos, it lacks in principle, when it sees migration as a problem, an issue that makes it difficult to find structural solutions. This is not the first time that Euskadi has faced massive migration processes, but this time it is in our hands to choose how to deal with them. In this proposal, the Government's intention seems good, but it must be translated into good action so that it does not remain in a mere declaration of intent. With knowledge we say this, because I do not know if they remember the initiative of humanitarian corridors to welcome children who were alone, a complex and well-intentioned initiative, which has been sold to the press as four times, but which has remained at nothing, zero. There is no progress, and in the meantime the children here, crowded in centers with a clear and systematic lack of places and resources. But we cannot and must not set up a reception and care system based on a utilitarian vision of human beings, because that does not help the integrality of the reception, the plot and, of course, hinders the fight against xenophobia and racism. In any case, today in Elkarrekin Podemos, we see fundamental with this proposal to express our commitment to being a host country. We know that citizenship has it, that the government offers it, and we understand that this Parliament cannot be less. In this regard, we believe that urging a government that offers commitments to ensure full reception is the minimum. But as important as that is to acknowledge and thank the solidarity of the citizenry. The reception and care of those who care – and want to see it or admit it or not – have covered and continue to cover a gap that the institutions have not known – or worse – they have not wanted to cover. The reception and care of those who anonymously or publicly have decided to take a step forward and help in what from politics and institutions is not being covered or – even worse – wanting to cover. The reception and care of human beings, whether from Mali or Morocco, have arrived on 16 or 18 June or July, need our support and are not getting it. Whether or not they arrive at a specific or exceptional time, there is no right or tolerable right to have people plunged into poverty and sinogarism, because the Government classifies according to the administrative situation or the day of arrival. The welcome and care provided this summer by activists of Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak – aupa zuek! –, neighbors and neighbors of Atxuri, Santutxu, Deusto, Bilvi, self-managed spaces like Karmela, social and religious entities, and people in all corners of Euskadi, who do not or do not link to the collectives, who have done an exercise of precious popular will and which must be recognized and valued, because it is also an exercise that – we like or do not recognize it – has brought to this government the colors this summer. Finally and I'm done. Preventing xenophobia and racism is an indispensable element to be able to conceive of this as an integral issue. It is our contribution to this proposal: the need to inform and train citizens in order to prevent racism and xenophobia. I heard just now on the radio: there are two kinds of countries which have not been able to show that they are racists and that they are racists. We must make an effort to break this maxim and show that when we say that Euskadi is a land of transit and reception, we really do it with open arms and human rights in a central place, the same place that we occupy and must occupy the neighbours and neighbours that we live here, we have come from where we have come from, because we are all Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning. Advisers, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this initiative, we have reached an agreement in the form of a compromise amendment with the groups supporting the Government and also with regard to the initiative presented by Mrs Agirre. We think that, in the end, the two transaction proposals, the two transactions... They are quite similar to the substantive issue. We are going to be a little more optimistic or realistic about what is happening and we do think that everything can be done. Some effort may still be sustained or increased. But we do think it's done, by those who they have to act, as they can, in an effective way. We presented an initiative in which we picked up the key element for effective and effective reception, shelter and asylum policies, and we marked it in the areas of coordination, in the institutional agreement frameworks and then, in the development of the compromise amendment, in the social agreement frameworks. We asked, in the whole amendment, in relation to these issues, which we have already talked about in this Parliament – and more than we have talked about, we have agreed, because then I will remember the institutional declaration of more than a year ago –... We, in the whole amendment, focused on the Basque Parliament urging "the Basque Government to ensure that actions concerning the reception, shelter and asylum of persons who leave their countries of origin take place within institutional frameworks with the Government of Spain and with the European Union, which guarantee – and here is the fundamental element – the protection of people, respect for human rights, coexistence and security in Europe". Of course, within this framework of collaboration, institutional agreement and coordination, that is where we understand that we must maintain such policies. It is important, of course, that reception policies be developed in institutional collaboration, and I say again, and socially, as is done, with exemplary social organizations that collaborate and urge to improve action in this sense of reception. And that is the main feature of the compromise amendment that we have signed: collaboration and coordination, and cooperation. "We could say on these issues." The institutions must develop this social effort, so that integration and reception processes are as successful as possible, and policy and policy and organizational resources are also developed within that scope of coordination and cooperation. I recalled earlier – and I say it again – the important institutional statement of April 3, 2017. I mean, that somehow united us all. We joined the institutions that we were in that institutional act; we joined the parliamentary groups, we joined the organizations that met in that framework or in that area of institutional declaration of 3 April, where there were requests for change, there were proposals, there were commitments on the part of all of us, there was a critical analysis of the situation. Well, and all that became apparent and, of course, we must continue to understand that everything can be insufficient, but that we do what is possible and that, of course, we must continue to urge that it can be developed. I could not attend the meeting, but last Tuesday the presentation of refugees was held, questions were also discussed, documents were recalled, such as the Government's framework document to guide in a shared manner the social, interinstitutional and interdepartmental political response to the humanitarian crisis that is about refugees at European borders. Well, it's clear that there's a framework for action and there's objectives. And within these objectives and within this strategy, there are issues that are basic and important: to contribute with concrete proposals to increase reception capacity; to improve with concrete proposals the processes of integration and autonomy of persons seeking international protection and refugees; to respond, with agility and budgetary commitment, to the situations and urgent appeals that are presented from the humanitarian point of view at every moment; to support and develop cooperation projects; to focus on the international areas in which Basque society has a voice; to promote harmonization and dissemination initiatives aimed at promoting human rights and solidarity with the country's cultural project... In other words, these are the objectives of an action framework, that is, the objectives are already in place. Indeed, there may be errors or there may be issues that can be improved, but I believe that this society is moving in relation to sensitivity as well. I say again that I would like you to flee from the apocalyptic speeches and that everything is fatal and that nothing is done... On the contrary, I believe that there is a framework for action, there is a capacity for action and there is action; that is, we are going to analyse it first from that point of view. In these keys, we have signed, with the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, an amendment of the whole, which reflects those principles that we talked about earlier, but also the possibility of continuing to work, right? That is, from the number one point where we were talking about that cooperation and those frameworks of action with other governments that have much to say, for the machinery to be well greased, much better greased. But that is also what guarantees the effectiveness, the protection of people, that respect for human rights, in an effective way and it can do better and better, and we hope that is our wish. We are also talking about the Basque Parliament urging the Basque Government to work, in a coordinated manner, with the rest of the third sector institutions and entities working in the field of immigration in order to be able to provide emergency humanitarian response to these people. And we understand that the institutions, in that social collaboration with non-governmental organizations, with exemplary associations in relation to the work of reception and asylum and issues relating to refugees and migrants... because we believe that there is also an important margin for proactive, positive cooperation, i.e. for the development of host policies. We also talk about developing the action plans, of course, that the institutions have, the collaboration with the other Basque institutions for the networks and associations of emigrants, in already established frameworks of action and forums of integration and social participation of the citizens. And we also spoke, as Mrs Guanche recalled, and we spoke and assumed, of course, as a fundamental issue, the collaboration with the rest of the institutions and agents to continue working to make Euskadi a territory free of racist expressions, anti-immigrant populist expressions, xenophobia and the search for consensus that avoids them. I think they're fundamental elements... The compromise amendment we have signed is very similar to the amendment in which you are involved; that is, the objectives and guidelines are the same and, well, we will then support what has been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. I disagree with Mr Barrio; I do like epic speeches, politicians. I believe that, the principles, it is good to highlight them; I believe that many of them are shared – they have said – by Basque society both from the institutional point of view and by the organizations or citizens themselves who collaborate. But I also like to be talked to responsibility, when a matter is explained in a rostrum. I will start, however, with the issues that I had prepared and which justify the position of the Socialist Party in the amendment of the whole that we tabled in its day and which is almost equal to the one supported – or signed, sorry – by Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, with one exception, which is the subject of leadership, the only direction. That, by the way, at a two-hour meeting of the intergroup, at which the Government, both the Directorate for Human Rights with Mr Fernández and the Deputy Councillor for Social Policy themselves, explained what the care system had been – I insist, which could be improved in any case, but at least very urgent in the measures taken – did not take place the demonstrations that have been made here, not even almost some of the people asked questions – in others, because Mrs Guanche is perhaps true –... many questions to detail what that emergency process had been. Therefore, I do like to be talked with responsibility, and the epic speeches and the politicians, yes – Mr Carmelo, I disagree there; we have to position ourselves – but it is also true that we have to act with responsibility. We were talking about the Basque diaspora... I am not going to have an opportunity to go to Argentina – I am not in that committee – but I suppose it will be an experience, the truth, as Mrs Agirre said, to be lived and to know experiences. I know another migratory phenomenon, because it is true that in Euskadi it is not something new. It has not been in the history of humanity, and it will not be in ours either, in that of the Basque Country. Perhaps it is not too much today to remember, apart from what Mrs Agirre has recalled, and to thank the thousands and thousands of working people – of whom, among them, I can also be a descendant – who came to Euskadi to work in the heat of the industrial development of the 19th century and the development of the 1950s, and who have also been essential for the economic development and the richness and diversity and plurality of our country. We are who we are. Because it is true that many people have left and have kept their customs. And we are what we are, because extremists, Andalusians, Castilians or Galicians came to contribute to the wealth of our country. At the moment, we find a different typology, and a different society; it is true. We are talking about a migration from much more distant places and whose fate does not have to be Euskadi. The vast majority of the migratory flow we receive comes in silence and is through their own reception networks as does the reception process; through their contacts and networks, they establish and seek the way forward. What we have received this summer and have occupied the front pages, the consequence of which is this initiative and similar ones, is not the migration profile, it is not that migration profile. Of all the people who came this summer, a very small proportion decides to settle among us. The vast majority is what we call transit migration. This has been explained on several occasions because it is not the first time that we have discussed this issue in this plenary, and that, in our opinion – and so we have proceeded in the institutions to which we belong – what we have to do is to support these migration processes of people, to provide resources that support people in their transit, to achieve their vital project. Migration in transit is what it has done – and I agree with that – to make visible the phenomenon of migration, of which we have so much experience on our land, on both sides. Euskadi is a welcoming land, social and sociological history has been demonstrating it and we are demonstrating it. Therefore, what happened this summer with the arrival of people mostly in transit, makes visible, as I said, this phenomenon that is also being experienced in the State, at the global level, and makes visible the diversity that already exists in our country. I agree that addressing migration is a country responsibility, Mrs Guanche. I've never doubted it. It was expressed in the intergroup by the persons appearing in the Basque Government. I do not know whether on 20 or 30 occasions the social immigration plan open to the participation of all the institutions with competence in this field, of all the social organizations participating in that urgent table that was created for what happened this summer, but also in that global process of care and integration that Mrs Guanche was talking about. And that, in that sense, it also supported in those two hours of attendance, in which we were able to inform ourselves of how the attentions had been. I therefore agree that this is the main thing; there must be a Basque immigration plan, and so has also been announced by the Lehendakari; a Basque immigration plan, in addition, which even the state now, with the change of government, has supported, in terms of the competences that the government delegate himself may have, saying that it seems to him the best way to deal with it: an inter-institutional table with the participation of social organizations and that we have already announced that we subscribe before the summer, during the summer, and we will continue to subscribe after the debate on this initiative. Therefore, immigration arrives in Spain; we have already seen yesterday's data: 41,000 people have arrived on the Spanish coast, more than in 2016. And most of those people do it through the regular channels. There are very few people who come through the irregular channels. All must be attended to, but it must also be said that most people do so. Transit immigration is another typology of the phenomenon of migration, which, in this case, the State and the Basque Country must face as a responsible country, and which, with regard to people in transit, acts as did the Basque institutions, the organizations that are at that table, those that are not, that have also collaborated and helped people. But that does not stop to say that there has been an act since July itself, in which the coordination table was created, in which we all know it, because as it was said and explained for two hours – it is a bit of a relief to me to say it again here – that they are all: the three parliaments, the Irun City Hall, the three Basque capitals, the Red Cross, Doctors of the World, CEAR, Caritas, Harresiak Apurtuz, and at the last meeting also has been incorporated SOS Racism of Gipuzkoa. I insist, there has been an intention to act and undertake this with an integral responsibility, leading the Basque Government that plan that is desired to make an integration that respects the citizenship, diversity and plurality of that Basque society and the attention to these people. And in the meantime, during this summer, the Basque institutions have responded in collaboration with the Spanish Government, through that plan, which they explained to us for two hours at the last meeting – the V Plan –; they also explained to us and brought to our attention, sooner or later, the programme itself of adequacy and insisted on the willingness to work on those plans and actions, in collaboration with the political forces and groups of this Parliament, that we were sitting in that intergroup meeting to explain this situation to us. I am not going to go any further, because it is a debate that I have said on many occasions. Mrs. Guanche, you can count on us for comprehensive care and attention. With regard to the one direction, we in a government that we led had it. It was not possible in the Government Agreement. There's always something out there. But it is also true that the V Plan that has been presented – and the Vice-Adviser said so – is committed to the unification of leadership in the next legislature. And that's true too. This was also said at the meeting. I am not going to say thick words of anyone, because attention may have had flaws. It was an emergency and disproportionate arrival. There may have been mistakes. Let us hope that they will be solved, but, of course, there was responsibility in the attention to the inter-institutional collaboration also with the Government of Spain, which increased the resources for that humanitarian and urgent protection – they also know it because the amount that the Government of Spain put in order to increase was also said in the inter-group. As far as the miners are concerned, it is also the competence of the foreign parliament. Also, if you want, we'll get into it. I don't know if outside institutions will like it, but, well, it was treated in the intergroup. And also, above all, I did not hear in some cases the positions regarding that the performance had been careless, that they had been pulled and that the performance did not consist in giving a snack and a bed. Of course it does not consist in that, and I believe that the answer that the Basque institutions have given – I insist, can be improved, of course it can be improved – but neither can I...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u23	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u24	Yes, thank you, Madam President. ... can be defined thus, as has been defined by some people in this rostrum, especially after knowing, folio per folio, line per line, what had been the performance, not only of the Basque Government, but of the deputies, of the municipalities, of the social organizations and the work of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u26	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. We propose to discuss the question as well as to secure the proper reception and care of those who come to us in the Eulocution. Aguirre, a member of the defense of the emigrants and Refrushes' rights, presented the equipment in July. In the early summer, we read a great deal about the emigrants and refugees who were coming to us in the press, and, on television, the subject was treated. The news was worrying; it generated alarm. People who came on buses, first to Donostia and then, above all, to Bilbao, where they did not have a support network and sometimes they were caught sleeping on the street. It is important – it was also said – to make it clear that most of these people were in transit in our territory, that their idea was to follow their way to other northern European countries to develop their vital project there. Hala eta guztiz ére, argi daukagu partonsona guztiek, guzti-guztiek, babesa behar dutela, gurekin bizitzen gelditu nahi dutenek eta bagita euren bilbidea bieste herrialde batzuetara zuzenduta dutenek ére. Basque institutions have worked since the first day in order to give proper attention to these people. It wasn't easy. Should we improve the protocols? I'm sure it is. But everyone who has arrived has been able to offer services which were conducted from the institutions. I think it's gratitude, too, for the complication and labour of different institutions, in order to provide for the best reception and care of people who have come to us. And above all, they have attempted to give a custom treatment according to the circumstances, conditions, and projects of life. So, as on Tuesday, in the intergrouping, the protocol and the changing procedures, the living, the reflexes... they have been, with the effort it presupposes. It must also be said that the euscal society, once more, has expressed its solidarity, that it has shown the honesty of its assistance, and that there have been many volunteers and various associations which have been carried forward. The second point of the fundamental activity is to praise their work, as well as that of the Chinese and the midway now; but the work done by the institutions is not mentioned, nor is it right to mention it. I'm sure there's more to do than make it better for protocol, attention, care, but it's okay to admit that different levels of organization have been working without stopping all summer. There have been problems of lack of information and lack of knowledge about the number of people who were going to Euskadi, about their personal circumstances, as if they were families who could come with minors – those data were not known until they arrived – women with small children. This has made it difficult to establish ad hoc resources In addition, different situations occur among the people who arrive. Some are asylum seekers and others are migrants, and although, of course, they all deserve protection, the itineraries, procedures, rules and institutions involved are not the same, as you very well know, Mrs Guanche. Asylum applications depend on the State Government and its procedure is regulated in the State in accordance with European and international standards. At this point, we must remember that we have been waiting too long for the development of the asylum regulations by the Congress of Deputies. Let's see if now, with the change of government, we get it. To this must be added the different institutional levels in Euskadi with their own competences: the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities. As the answers which are being given to the asylums, the Esscal institutions, together with CEAR, must set up a medium resource in Oñatin, which will be opened next week, as we appeared in a group on Tuesday. It must be said that they've been working together all summer over the three institutions of Eukadian Europe. There have been more than an assembly in Madrid, with the desire to coordinate jobs. CAR, the Red Cross, Cáritas, Medicus Mundi and Walls, have been helped, in order to give proper and integrated attention to those who come to us. They have been silent and co-operated with the institutions by sharing and putting together diagnostics. Mr. Loza, who is a delegate of Spain, has also taken part in these great works, because the state has its jurisdictions and the meaning of the word. It is clear that some of these people have come to stay. It is estimated that between 3 and 5 % of the people who arrived this summer, "only" – I say in between- show interest in staying in Euskadi. I'm saying "only" because from the news it seems that hordes of people are coming, etc. It is 3-5 % of the people who are coming, which would mean about 160 of the approximately 4,000 people who have been able to be counted who have passed through Euskadi this summer. Now is the time to think about the medium-long term. Inter-agency collaboration and the overwhelming support of third-sector entities and individuals, always willing to help, is essential. The Lehendakari said yesterday, at a breakfast, that it takes a lot of pedagogy with regard to migration – and I believe that Mrs Guanche and Mr Barrio have also mentioned the same thing – that the plurality and diversity of the people who have come to live between us and us must be respected, and that we must seek their integration and work with them to ensure their full integration. Obviously, it is a medium-long-term job, but it has to be worked from the zero minute. Argi esan behar dugu ez de la gaur-biharko egoera edo arazoa, elkarlana behar behar beharrezkoa dela. We have an important subject that ought to have been left out of political discussions, and the ideas and labours of all will be well brought up to give proper attention and care. The answers we give today will have their consequences tomorrow. Let us act with prudence and responsibility. It is clear that we ought to work together; The more persons, groups, operators, political parties, are prepared to assist us, the better it will be for us all. The several points of our correction seek this: let us all step forward at once. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the answers, representative EH Collectors, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, we thank the Podemos team for joining us. Gero, in part. Mr Barrio, it's not about doing what you can, it's about doing what you have to do. And it's not about charity either. It's a matter of social justice. And less bad that in what they have had sex the word'security' has fallen, which was the original word in his proposal, and if I wasn't going to advise him not to lie about security issues when he goes to Argentina, because they're going to take it wrong. To be a refugee or an immigrant, to be poor... It's not a crime. And neither does solidarity. And it also draws our attention to the fact that in this compromise that they have achieved, we do not see any concrete commitments. I come from the world of journalism, where it's about using the smallest possible words with the most content, and here, I think that just as you come from the world of law, it's just the opposite. [[Barres]] The more words and empty contents are used. Okay. Romero anderea, since you lie, too, the famous meeting that two hours, I want to say to you: we at such meetings – and you should know better than we do – we are not going to make political speeches, we are going to gather information, and we like to talk after having collected all the information, that is, to analyze those data that they offered us during those two hours, and then to make our political speech. There was also a great deal of attention that the Fifth Immigration Plan, which was presented in June, now in July we have already had to adapt the strategy; then, well, with what forecast these plans are made that will expire in just three months. And I was also very drawn to the attention that the bulk of our initiative today, which is the proposal to create a specific direction for migration and interculturality... I asked directly the three representatives of the Government who were there, and they told me that it seemed very good to them, that it was natural, that it had existed before and that it was precisely reflected in this plan. That's what we wanted it to be accepted, to get a deal with you too. And I would like you to explain to me why, because I do not finish understanding, certainly, since you have lied to the subject of the meeting. And then you quote, over and over again, that it was an emergency situation. I don't know. There are 213 places offered, 3,500 people attended; I don't know if this is an emergency: in Lampedusa I don't know what they will say, the truth. On the other hand, madam, we've congratulated the citizens and not the institutions. The people have done what was not their duty, by their good will and generosity. What the institutions have done is their work, and it's good to congratulate them on our daily work, but I don't think it's necessary. We have confessed goodwill, we do not deny it. But it's obvious that we have to meet this plan, and then we have to adapt ourselves to it, that shows what happened. For instance, you said there were some things that weren't built for women: Then the women came to Irun, and they remained in the street, and this condition arose and died in the street. We think there's been some space to figure it out, to fit it. You said, too, that the middle term and length must be worked, and perfectly satisfied with it; therefore we made this proposal to-day: that is what we think we ought to do. I think that there is a collision with what you say, and the examples you propose, that there is no such thing as your example, and what the deputy-captain said on the other day in this blessed assembly, was an emergency, an emergency, and an exception, and you took it as an emergency and an emergency, and the answer was as follows: an answer from a state of emergency. We think it's a different matter and that's what I think we also share with Podemos. that is to say, what people we want to be, and if we want to be a real reception people, we have to work for the length of the term, and we have to adapt the whole system to it; we have to stabilize the system, and that is why we've asked for this direction, this specialized office, all that's done. And you have said, as the Almighty of Araba confessed the other day, that in this case all this has been a course of co-ordination, so that it does not happen, and that this length of time is not a common question, it is a matter of a long period, and we think that the measures and the work we have to do must be of the same nature. We have a complete commitment to it; we believe that in our initiation there is exact engagements, and there is no idle word, no all are necessary; If we want to be a reception people, we need to start working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Miss Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u30	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. Let's split it up. I don't know if my speech has been apocalyptic or epic; I don't know if my euskera is understood or not – as you know, I am learning and I have the humility to acknowledge that perhaps I have not expressed myself correctly – but I do have the feeling that here there has been a selective pseudo deafness in listening to the speech: At no time has anything been said to be done; at no time has everything been said to be wrong. What has been said is that there is a difference in priorities and that there is a duty to seek excellence and, in case it was not understood, I repeat it. Mrs Romero, what is the discrepancy with these amendments which are presented today, on the one hand, by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the People's Party, and on the other hand, by Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu? It's not just the difference with the Emigration Directorate, yes or no. It is that the amendment that you have has loaded the recognition of associations and social movements – they have loaded it – and that for us, of course, is an insurmountable point of discrepancy. We could talk a long time about technical matters, but I understand that what is being debated in this House is the political thing, and thanking the advice on how to prepare the oratory in this house, I will stay with some things, but, of course, with others I will follow where I am going, because I think I am not going in the wrong way. With regard to the situation of children... In that intergroup we talked about, and I insist, I think the exact phrase I said when I spoke was that it was not the time to elaborate speeches or positions, because the intergroup is behind closed doors, because we were scarce in time and because I understood that it could not be done. For this reason, positioning is manifested today. When we talk about kids, not minas, not things... Ms. Lide Amilibia said that there was a will on the part of the Basque Government to lead this issue. Of course, what there is is a will on the part of Elkarrekin We can work on this issue. We have filed in the summer, as you will know, a complaint to the Prosecutor's Office about the systematic overcrowding. The situation of children in Euskadi is not yesterday. The Ararteko has systematically denounced overcrowding and lack of places since 2005, and we are in 2018; this does not respond to an emergency situation, it does not respond to an exceptionality; it responds not to bet on complying with the Child Protection Act: wherever they are, they are children and deserve to be treated as the law says. Having said that, Mrs Arregi, thank you for acknowledging my knowledge of the procedures, and of course I think it is obvious that our group is concerned and concerned about us from before we are here, since we are here and we will certainly be concerned, as people, when we leave. That is why, this summer during the time of the crisis, for the sake of coexistence and for the sake of not encouraging xenophobia and racism, we have been respectful and responsible, but that does not mean that we have to commune with everything that this Government does or that we lose our right to criticism; it was just missing. We again express our right to criticism in the way things are doing, because, of course, we do not agree on everything and there are things where we do not agree on anything. We express our right to criticism of how the negotiations on this proposal and the lack of will to agree, because we do believe that there were members to reach an agreement with concrete commitments, and, at least from our parliamentary group, we have not felt that this possibility has been worked out. And of course, we express – I don't know – our surprise about fellow travellers who say things like there are police studies that say "there are a million immigrants on the Libyan coast who are laying out a new route through Spain. The state of well-being that can absorb the millions of Africans who want to come to Europe is not sustainable", these are their partners today on this issue. We are not going to criticize, as is obvious, the parliamentary dynamic, but to make it clear that we come to defend the right to life with capitals, and we come to defend that "migration must be understood as an opportunity and not as a problem", a phrase that is in the sixth word of the strategy paper of the Government to which I referred earlier. In our view, there is no use in beautiful frames, if at the time of truth there is a fund that does not correspond. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. Barrio, the representative of Euscal Popular, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u32	Gracias, president. Briefly... Mrs Agirre, I drew your attention to our mention, in our amendment to the whole, of security. For security is basic; that is, when there is movement of people, when there are collectives that move, security is basic. But for what? For the protection of such persons. Look, and that's what we're all talking about. The question of security, interpret it within the framework of what we said no, because what we said, and I say it again, is "that they guarantee the protection of people, respect for human rights, coexistence and security in Europe". In addition, if we are talking, at a regular rate, about the risks of populism, racism and manifestations of xenophobia, that is all the more reason for security to have a leading role in all these policies which have to do with reception, asylum and shelter; that is why, Mrs Agirre. I find it surprising that, well, you miss this mention of something that you have to guarantee precisely the policies in which it fits. He's made a parallel as easy as he has. You come from journalism and you like concrete words; we come from law and we like words. No, you many times what you are looking for are indeed – more linked to journalism – the headlines, and nothing more. And what needs to be done is to work and recognize that things are being done, that more can be done, that agreements can be reached, like the one I reminded you of before April last year. And, well, then work within the frameworks of action and collaboration. And that is the fundamental element that I spoke of before: the mode of action, cooperation, inter-institutional and social collaboration. That is what we are talking about, but that is what we are talking about, and it is also on what is the basis of those statements that we have all made with other entities and with other associations and with other collectives: those frameworks of action that are part of the political initiative of Governments and the cooperation that is taking place on this whole issue. And, therefore, I think there is no word; it may seem to you that yes, but there is no word, because there is concreteness in what we say in each of the five points and some of them literally taken from what you have proposed. And, Mrs Guanche, you said that you have fallen or that there was no maximum recognition of associations. Well, we've done it in the gallery, but it does, it does because it does. Because we do say "that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to work in a coordinated way with the rest of the third sector institutions and entities working in the field of immigration in order to be able to give a humanitarian response...", that is, that is to say, to recognize the role and the ability to do so and, of course, it is done and in any other document. And I refer again to the statement of 3 April last year or to another series of documents; there is that capacity, that dialogue. We do it every day and we recognize it every day. The other day, on the 30th anniversary of the NGOD coordinator, where we were also some recognizing that attitude, and every day, and we also know it, because it is one of the identity signs of our country: cooperation and non-governmental organizations. That's what we do and we also say it. I don't know; we don't say it the way you want us to say it, but we do, because there's nothing more to read. And in addition to the fourth point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the other institutions, to work together with networks and associations..."; that is, we say this twice in addition. Similarly, the compromise amendment that we have signed has not been read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with Mrs Arregi, with the development of the Aliens Act. In fact, Mrs Hernando also informed the intergroup that she was informed of the efforts of the government delegate to the police stations in order to expedite the proceedings of the first appointment. But it is also true that this government has been doing so for three months – and I know that others are doing so in less time – but it has been doing so for three months and, finally, right now we are dealing with the debate on budgets and the support of a government in the circumstances that it is, and I hope that all political forces will work together to ensure that that government continues and that we can develop the Aliens Act. So I wanted to stress this because I think it is necessary to address the issue of asylum. Let's see: being an immigrant I think it's not a crime; it's an obvious thing. It's just that we'd be half, at least I'm a descendant, all in jail. It's an obvious... I don't know if it's talk. "I think it's not; I think it's a position that comes out of the inside," but of course it's not a word of mouth, it's not a crime, and I think most of the parliamentary groups, of the people who are here, we think about it and, moreover, we don't put it in front of any other parliamentary group. I am not a journalist – what is going to be done to him, for perhaps I am one of those who speak the word of law; my training is legal – but what I have tried to put into this amendment of all – which was first accepted when I spoke, as a partner of government, with the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group – was the fact, which I said before, of that integral attention. Here we don't just talk about exceptionality; that's uncertain, I haven't talked... That is exceptional, and that is why the initiative was presented and put it in justification, but we do not believe that exceptionality should be faced, Mrs Guanche, and you know it. We must accept and agree with the comprehensive treatment of matter. I'm not going to give anyone any oratory lessons. I have not been the one who has given lessons in prayer; I have said that I like epic speeches, but I will not consent to be told that when I speak of minas, I speak of things with boys and girls, because I do not speak of things. Because precisely with the responsibility that we have assumed in some of the outlaws, we have shown that we are not talking about things, but about people that matter to us and those that we have taken responsibility for in territories like Bizkaia where the situation was very difficult. And you know that you know of our effort. So, I'm not taking it personally. The differences are the direction, I said. But it is the plan itself that says it will be the next legislature. What do I like as a Socialist Group less? Well, yes. Well, yes, Mrs. Agirre. Of course I like it less! But it is true that, at last, it is put in a document that we walk to that one direction. That we don't recognize the work? I've mentioned a few. I have mentioned those who are present because I know the work they are doing where the institutions have not arrived or where we have been able to fail. But also – well, Mrs Guanche said it was another of the differences in the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, the Nationalist Party and the People's Group; that is not disputed –... It's just that I don't allow it to be questioned, because we work with them. With them and with migrant associations, which are the ones that really seek, when the person definitely stays to live in Euskadi, that total integration. The Government's strategy is inadequate because it sets out a plan and then corrects it. I didn't expect less from a government that, in the face of situations that occur in your country and that have to do with – because even if it is extraordinary that it may have failed – does not renew its action to improve it. Man, Mrs. Agirre, it's the least a government can do: carry on to improve failures. You won't tell me that bothers you! Does that bother you? I do not know, if it bothers you, it seems to me that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government – she is the only counselor – have what to do, so that this is truly an integral consideration, do so. I'm not going to answer to the partners, because she's a parliamentarian. Those who are not our partners today, in fact, are, on most occasions, your partners to overthrow the government's motions. Finally, it is the parliamentary majority. It is logical in democracy and something that, fortunately, already happens in this country with great assiduousness. Therefore, with the People's Party, we have agreed on this. It is a transaction that has been removed from that document and which reflects what we wanted to say from the Socialist Party. And what we're not going to consent to is that no one interprets what we say. What we say is what we say, even if some are talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u36	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. President. We've given these people an exception: I don't share that, and that's not how it works. The government has always said that it was unusual or extraordinary, and, according to the number they came, it has not been as it has been in other years; Then many came from the south. From the south of Spain, the Chinese and some of them have decided to come here to share their lives with us, or to go on their journey to other places alone. But it wasn't that we gave them an exception. I don't admit that because that's not the case. Yes, it was a spotless and unusual situation, and on Tuesday it appeared that it couldn't be said from now on that it wasn't unusual, because it looked as if it would be very spontaneous, and that some of them would come here to live with us. Then you have said that about the social builders it is not their work and their organization and that you praised them for it. I didn't say that you're going to praise him, or applaud him, or share anything, clear and clear. But you don't even mention it. It seems that institutions have done nothing, and that society or social agents have been watching...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u37	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u38	And that's not the way it is, and you know it and say so too... Then, around the office, around the one director. This has been discussed here in this law; I do not remember when, in what year, but it was discussed, and we did not accept it at its moment, and now it is said in the plan.... but the duration of this plan is 2018-2020, and in 2020, and the deputy-captain himself said that they were doing the work, and that he saw it well in an association, in a single direction, but in 2020; this plan ends at 2020, and we do not see it for this very purpose, as Raphael Romerus himself said. I think that doesn't fix everything and it's not la varita mágica. With regard to Mrs Guanche, who said that there had been a lack of will to agree. When yesterday I was called to ask for the amendment we had agreed on – the proposing party called me, as is normal –... And I passed what we had agreed on and I told him we were open to if he wanted to include anything else. So, lack of will on this side, I don't think there was any. And with regard to the mentions that you have made that these are your partners, which you demonized with statements that you have made; they are the partners with which you... the same statements have made those supposed partners of ours in this initiative, with which you have signed the following transactional, which will be discussed at the next point. Exactly the same statements have been made by the representatives of that party to whom you, in one case, demonize and, in the other, sign or agree with him. This seems very good to me, as Mrs Romero said: this is democracy and this is how it works, but it is not worth demonizing for some things and for others not. When I'm interested I sign, and when I don't, no. I think, speaking of headlines, photos... sometimes headlines and photos have been searched also in the press, etc., within the legitimate criticism, but sometimes looking for that criticism that went behind "institutions do nothing and we have to do nothing", looking for that photo and that headline, which I think does not correspond, of course, with reality... We continue to insist that, obviously, there are failures, that there are many things to improve, but what cannot remain in the public image is that the institutions have not moved, that they have done absolutely nothing, because that is not true. And many of the times it has been searched, through photos and headlines, to try to relate what was being worked from the social and nothing was being done from the institutions. I have not said that you have said it; I have said that you are looking for it on many occasions. And I think weak favors do some of these statements to what we're actually looking for all of us, I think – or at least we've expressed it – that's the best thing for people who come to stay with us. So, I think: out of demagogies, out of racist speeches, out of xenophobic speeches... on behalf of all of us, and I think this should, of course, be left out of the debate, not the debate, but the political pim-pam-pum, because we can, of course, debate everything and contribute...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u39	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u40	Yes, right now. And contributing positively I think it's good to achieve the end we're all looking for. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote for EH Collectors and the intermediate corrections that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u42	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Euscalia Socialeists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucousists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u43	So the middle-line correction has been accepted Third point in theme list: "Motion, Joseph Ramon Becerr, introduced together by Carollo to the parliamentary members of the Podemos, in order to ensure the health of the population as the health of the population. Discipline and final resolution. Let's get together Podemos. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u44	Thank you, Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmen. Euskadi has a problem with air quality, and it is not so much about quality in itself, but above all because of the credibility of the institutional work being done to protect that air quality. And I will illustrate it with a letter to the director, published last September 2nd in a medium of great circulation and which says so – I will read it textually –: "What happens in Durango? That was the question of an oncologist from a hospital in Bilbao to a durangue with lung cancer. I answered for him with another question. Is Durango the most polluted people in Spain, as some say? I don't know. What I'm convinced is that it is at the level of Euskadi. The one who runs the most risk. "There is a company that we all know more or less, that moments before the night shift, triggers very toxic gases that make the environment breathable. It makes us have to close the windows, breathing all the crap that's already penetrated our homes. They're playing with the health of a whole town. If the local authorities do not take drastic action on the matter, it will be the people who will one day raise their voices. "I've passed a lung cancer and a rebound. I have fought hard to overcome it, because I want to continue to publicly denounce everything that can be denounced. Very soon I will be 91 years old and I earnestly hope that those who come after me will reach my age." Two key issues emerge from this letter: One, there's a perception of risk, which doesn't mean there is, but there's a perception of risk. The author says that Durango is the most at-risk town. And two. There is a feeling of abandonment and misinformation, when he says that the local authorities do not take drastic measures on the matter and that it will be the people, if not the people, who will one day raise their voices. Perception of risk and sense of abandonment and misinformation lead to a loss of credibility in the institutions that should be protecting and promoting better air quality in our cities and towns. And it doesn't just happen in Durango. We have heard of demonstrations in Gueñes, Bilbao, Barakaldo, Getxo, Erandio, Elorrio... There are many municipalities that are concerned about the quality of their air. In particular, in Durango, from what I am told, after a survey carried out by the city council, the number one concern of citizenship is not self-government, it is not the right to decide, it is not even employment. The number one concern of Durango's citizenship is air quality. And it is therefore imperative that our institutions respond to this concern. It's crucial to give an answer because people are worried. And that's why we introduced our motion. Our motion is directed to convey and extend our propositions, and, if possible, to set them in motion. And if we were in the government, it would probably be our first measure to say: Look, we protect your health, your health is our priority, and we'll push your co-ordination apart from our jurisdictions between the Department of Health and the Environmental Department, and we'll do better to correct things and things that we're doing wrong, and if we don't measure them well, we'll change and we'll take care of the network that measures quality, and we'll let them plan to improve the quality of air and we'll put them in action, and not as we've done so far as we've done. And you people, whatever information you need to keep calm, we'll put all information in your hands on the website and on your updated data and protocol. The response of a diligent government, the response of a diligent government, of diligent institutions, would never be to look elsewhere, even if things are being done well, even if things were being done well, which is not the case, never a government can look elsewhere when people are showing concern. But the reality is that the government is not doing things right either. The relationship between the Departments of Health and the Environment is at least striking, if not non-existent. In the Health Plan 2013-2020, says the Department of Health, and writes it, there is coordination between the areas of Environment and Public Health of the Basque Government for monitoring air quality. When our group asks the Department of the Environment, it says: "There is no written protocol for transmitting data to either the municipalities or the Department of Health"; if you want to look, look on the web, the government comes to us. There is no coordinated relationship between the two departments and this is not an environmental problem, I have to say it over and over again. It is not an environmental problem; it is a public health problem, and that is why our group asked the Health Adviser on this subject and did not do so to the Environment Adviser, because we already know, because we are clear today that bad air quality increases mortality; the World Health Organisation has said so. And that's it, that's it... The Bilbao City Council itself says and writes that every year 100 Bilbaons and Bilbaons die as a result of the contamination; that the Bilbao City Council itself figures in 2,000 annual asthma attacks due to the contamination, 114 for respiratory diseases and 25 for acute bronchitis. The institution itself is saying so. People die from poor air quality; therefore, there is a shared responsibility, between the Department of Environment and the Department of Health, because all this is the Basque Government. It was a banatuta baldin badago, it was a behar izan yes, alde battik, air-kality ziurtatzea eta osas una ziurtatzea, éta bastetik, informazione osoa hedatzea, informazione osoa éta egiazkoa. And that is the key, that is the key, that in this shared responsibility there are two fundamental principles to which we have to pay attention: On the one hand, we have to ensure, the Department of Health has to ensure, the health of citizens, that air quality is the right one; but, on the other hand, the Department of the Environment has to ensure that the information it makes available to citizens is true and complete, and that is not happening today. And, as a result of putting these principles into effect, action and action follow, and that is what we are proposing in the motion that we were presenting today from Elkarrekin Podemos and that, fortunately, we have managed to deal with the People's Group and the EH Bildu group. Action must be taken; coordination protocols must be put in place, which do not exist, and plans must be put in place to improve air quality, which is a legal obligation – I have to say – and, of course, we must review this air quality control network, which is not working properly and which is not giving the true information that citizens would need. I'm going to give you an example that's very graphic – and I'm sorry to have to resort to photos, but it's the most graphic we have. (He showed a sign. This is the panel, one of the panels, of air quality that has the Bilbao City Council at the entrance, in one of the entrances of the city. This panel says, "Air quality, improveable." When it says 'better', it means that we are exceeding the legal limits; it is not that we continue to work, which is the usual thing the government says. No, no, We're overstepping the legal limits, but it makes it greener. Psychological trick... I could say 'we're dying' and put it in green, put it in green, so we'll be clear that everything's going well, that everything's going well. There's no real information being given. No honest information is being given to the citizenry. And just this panel is next to the point that has recorded the dark quality indexes of the whole of Euskadi during 2017. I'm going to end up doing a little reflection. I do not know why the groups supporting the Government have not tabled an amendment. I have two hypotheses, which, of course, I imagine those groups will answer now: The first is that the Government has no alternatives. And that's the one that reassures me the most. It is the one that reassures me most, because we, the other groups, have already provided them with those alternatives. Another thing is whether they want to assume them or not. The second, I would be more concerned, because the second is to keep saying that there is no problem. That there's no problem. If they said there was no problem, they'd go on with the ostrich tactic, looking the other way. And this is a good time to remember that there is a problem, and that we have to solve it. And it's also a time, a good time, because in three weeks' time they're going to be 40 years of the Erandio Events. For those who don't know, the Erandio events were the murder of two of Erandio's neighbors by the police when they participated in the protests for the poor quality of the air in Erandio in 1969. Two people who, by the way, have not yet been recognized as victims of police abuse. And I have here – because it gives me time and I will read it – the chronicle that made several years ago a newspaper of national circulation, recalling what had happened 40 years ago. And he said... so that somehow we try to relate it to the letter that I have already read at the beginning of Durango. He said: "The municipality, Erandio, which was then a neighborhood in Bilbao, had been supporting polluting emissions from companies based in the area for years. There were days when people had to go with a handkerchief and cover their mouths and noses, because they couldn't breathe. Most of the population suffered from respiratory problems. "And at Erandio there had already been symptoms of discomfort and fatigue among the workers and their families. In fact, it was not the first time that women, very concerned about the health of their children, went to the village square to protest peacefully. "But that day, on October 28, 1969, a new emission of harmful, annoying and unhealthy gases was again produced in Erandio. Change Erandio to any other Basque city. The most intense smoke or cloud lasted half an hour. This repetition caused the irritation of a section of the neighborhood that, forming groups, went out to the street to protest. "The protesters were entangled, armed with stones, on the tracks of the train and on the road, interrupting the movement for an hour. Then there was a new intervention by the public force to calm the spirits." And we already know how the spirits at that time were calming down the public force, with shots that killed two neighbors. 50 years of this, as I say. The French mayor of the Bilbao era, Pilar Careaga, made some statements, which she picked up the ABC and which I will also read textually to finish: "The Mayor of Bilbao, Mrs. Pilar Careaga, will receive in her official office a commission of neighbours of Erandio, who will bring to the attention of all the procedures they have carried out, as well as the studies carried out on air pollution in the area". We'll keep working, I mean. "I want to demonstrate," said Pilar Careaga, "to the people of Erandio that we have not been inactive in the last few months." We're still working... "But the problem of harmful gases takes a long time." And I wonder, as much as 50 years? Does it take as much as 50 years? Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u46	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. I must confess that today he has left me a little out of play, or that the parties who support the government have left me. I am surprised that you do not introduce repentance, and you seem to express opposition. And it surprises me, because there have been other matters in this law about the affairs of URA, where an enterprise has been introduced, and where, well, there has been a will from the various parties which maintain the Government, and in the end, when there has been a proposition, such as this, we have come to a sort of agreement, by accepting the Government, and draining it... That's where we have to work or make some progress, right? And in this case it's not so, and we don't quite understand why this painting is, do we? It's kind of like sending this message: "We're doing all right when this chichop message is generally spreading around the air's quality, and that's unconcealable, isn't it?" And this initiative is responsible for it. I think it's a wrong attitude and it's a shame, even though this initiative is going to survive. It's always better if other teams even consume it, then what's proposed here is easier to get ahead of what's been proposed, isn't it? I don't know why that's right, but I don't think there are two questions here to answer. And it is: One: I think that we are concerned at least, and it is a matter of diagnosis, isn't it? Of course, many things are proposed here, which somehow concludes that the diagnosis is not as good as the government generally gives, and there may be a problem there. And the other is whether we propose to advance further or not from the lines. We propose some lines, and I believe that the Beccians have brought them to-day in a proper manner, and that what is proposed by our contributions is reasonable, and that they are thought to resist one of the most serious questions we have. But let me say a little more about the diagnosis: Here, we have discussed more than once about the quality of the air, even here on the committee, and I think it may be summed up in several words spoken by the head physician of the government, or Arriola, who said: "When we say – this textual gives – that the air quality data in Euskadi are good or very good, that there are also good and very good data, we are not saying that it is autobomb or complacency, we are simply transferring the reality of the data derived from our measuring stations." Okay. I think that's the government's position a little bit, isn't it? And I think this Diagnostic is just a few words from the previous year that I'm talking about, like, a little towel, a little rag, an un poquito el paño, and I think it's a rag or something that's got us, in a general way, set up an interesting hat, isn't it, uh, the City Court of Europe? I think it's interesting to take a turn in that report. (He showed a report. Txostena hau da: "Atmospheric contamination, our health does not yet have enough protection". Hori da Europako Kontu Auzitegiak esaten zona. And I think that, in making the diagnosis, there are several things to be considered here, and that in this sense the proposals which are brought to-day are very well inserted in the affairs of the European Courts. Batzuk bagenekizkien aurretik ere – horiek statistiketan-eta behin eta berriz ateratzen dira; gasteleraz dago – and says that "in the European Union air pollution poses the greatest environmental risk to health". Each year it causes about 500,000 premature deaths in Europe – which in the case of the Spanish State becomes about 30,000, and in the case of Euskadi, although there is no disaggregated statistics, we can be talking about several thousand, at least, premature deaths. If we were talking about these same numbers in traffic accidents, which are 10 times less, or in industrial accidents, we would have to see the scandal we would have. However, as they are due to air pollution, they seem to pass into a second or third division. And it's a very serious matter, which causes more than a thousand premature deaths on average a day. And it also tells us that 96% of EU citizens living in urban areas –96 % – are exposed to levels of air pollutants that, according to the World Health Organization, are harmful to health. It tells us that fine particles, fine particles of 2.5 microns, cause, alone, 400,000 deaths a year. And the European Environment Agency warns that "air pollution affects people every day and that, although peaks of pollution are their most visible effect, long-term exposure in small doses poses a greater threat to human health". And when it goes off – let's say – the problem around this: it is not measured enough, it is not measured well, the information about the air is not clearer and it is giving warnings, things that coincide quite with the shortcomings that we detect on the part of this government. We are told that "air quality indices are tools that can provide comprehensive information to citizens, but the court finds that member states, regions, cities define air quality indices differently, resulting in different assessments for the same quality." It also tells us that "the Air Quality Directive requires Member States to inform citizens about the possible effects of air pollution on health". Eta konklusioetara iristen denean, esaten du "although air quality has been benefited by the reduction of emissions, the health of citizens remains heavily affected by air pollution. Several European Union air quality standards are less stringent than data suggest on the effects of air pollution from health." And the court found that there was insufficient assurance that the member states were measuring in the right places and said that the regulation is based on air quality standards that are now between 15 and 20 years old, which are much less stringent than the World Health Organization guidelines. Okay. Considering this, I think it will be clear that we have some problems here, because when you come here to answer, the Government and I suppose you will come from it, you often say that the law is fulfilled, or that the law is in almost every case fulfilled. We've got some problems with the Dioxitrogen of Dioxido with the law, around Bilbo, but it's obvious that, by overcoming the law, what this court said is that we don't prevent health problems by being polite. And therefore it seems to us, that the observance of the law ought not, in many cases, to be sufficient, or that the end or end ought not to be mere execution of the law, knowing, as we know, that there are past deaths in the Basque Country and EAE air's contagion. In that sense, too, I mean that when you say that the quality of air is very good or good... I think Mr. Becerra's example is very good, but I have brought another example. But we must consider the limits of health when the World's Medical Organization says, "the limits of health," in those small particles of 2,5, which are measured in micracies, "the value that causes damage," and the law says 25. So we can compliment the law, but there are damages in health. And if there are, and in a very large part of the EA, because we pass the values of the World Organization into Algortan, we pass them to the Portuguese of the Bilbo, we pass them holiness, in general, in the lower nervous zone, in that area where 9,000 people live, we defeat them. Besides this, Añorgan, on the Zingan, on the other hand Omniolol, has also come out of 'Brangue', 'Daragon', etc.,' and so on. So there's the problem. What we're saying is that there's a lot of improvement in the air quality measuring network, that net should be shared with other departments and the academy, because we're having a lot of trouble in this sense. And here we will give another simple illustration: Petronor, the EAE polluter, who is celebrating the 50th anniversary today, is surrounded by a lot of emissions, and there are four cabins. Another time I said: from these four cabins, they're funk, and they're from two companies. Where are the ventilation, the toluenum, and the ostentatious? In the caviar that's in Petror's hands. That's where we need a public control. We have to take a turn to the number of cabins and the situation, and we have to turn the public information around again. As the European tribunal says, the information given to the public ought to be improved, and, in this sense, we have introduced a few proposals in this proposition, and we have great difficulties about information. The magazines of the Eukong are looking at optimism all the time, but I think it's important to the public that the dangers in which the situation is being handled should be explained much better, and that the measurements should be improved, and that our proposals are in this sense, I repeat, which, in an extraordinary manner, may not be protected by parties who seem to support the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u48	Yes, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor, Mrs. Counsellor. From the People's Party, from the People's Group, and I suppose that also from the groups that support the Government, although they have not demonstrated their approach through some initiative, some amendment..., we consider the improvement of air quality and adaptation to climate change as one of the main lines of work of the public administration's environmental policy. We are aware that the department is working on climate change laws and, therefore, we understand that they are concerned about this issue and that spending time on this issue at this time can be interpreted in different ways; let us wait to see what explanation the groups give. The public administration must ensure the protection of human health and preserve natural resources through prudent and rational use. Law 34/2007, on air quality and protection of the atmosphere, defines pollution as "the presence in the atmosphere of materials, substances or forms of energy that involve discomfort, risk or damage to the safety or health of persons, the environment and goods of any kind". Atmospheric contaminants that define the law, generated by activities of production and transformation of energy, related to combustion and those generated by transport. We have carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and primary particulars; also heavy metals, ammonia, ozone. Air quality has improved over the past 50 years, thanks to scientific advances, the demands of society and the population, and the application of a wide range of legal provisions. But we all know that this is not enough, that we need to make further progress, and in European Union data, progress has been made and improved, and some concentrations of air pollutants, sulphur dioxide or carbon monoxide and benzene have been significantly reduced; lead concentrations have fallen below the legally set limits. Despite these achievements, we have not yet achieved the quality of the air provided for in European legislation and desired by the citizens. We are far from the goals we have set ourselves. Today, suspended particulate matter and ozone are the two main pollutants that pose health and environmental risks, in addition to points of nitrogen dioxide in large cities. In recent years, a wide range of legal instruments have been put in place at European, national and regional levels. The various directives: we have the 2008 directive – which is the framework directive, so to speak; there have been some amendments from the previous ones – which is the directive on air quality, the environment and a cleaner atmosphere in Europe, which sets and defines the objectives for Europe and the common assessment criteria for all Member States, and which says how to obtain air quality data and make this information available to citizens – here the European Union is very keen to make information available to citizens –, to maintain air quality and to encourage collaboration between states. But we have the latest directive, 2016, on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, which obliges Member States to ensure that their annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, non-metallic volatile organic compounds and ammonia do not exceed, from 2020 onwards, certain levels or ceilings, and that in 2030 and beyond they will continue to be reduced with respect to 2005. Therefore, the 2007 law states that the autonomous communities will develop plans and programmes to improve air quality, in order to achieve the required objectives and avoid negative impacts of air pollution. In the same way that it says that short-term action plans will have to be made, with immediate measures for areas or situations where there is a risk – that there is a risk, not that there has already been pollution, but that there is a risk – of exceeding air quality objectives and possible warning. And what do we have in the Basque Country? What have we done in these years? And I'm going to look after this law: An Air Quality Plan was made in the region of Alto Deba; in the Duranguesado in 2007, in the municipality of Lemoa, in Pasaia, in Tolosaldea, in Betaño in Vitoria, in 2007. No more data. We don't know what the result is. Other plans have been made in the Middle Urola, and look, here we work with some rigour. The Middle Urola every year has a report of its plan; we have data, we know what's going on, conclusions are drawn, the data are pooled and the citizenry has information, the one who wants to have it. Ladies and gentlemen, I really think we have a lot of work to do. I am not saying that nothing is being done, but we are certainly not complying with the law. And what we have is the last directive of 2016, which requires some parameters that, today, we are not complying with and you will say, as Mrs Tapia told me in her day: "These parameters have to be met by the member states." Yes, but member states have to comply, as the 2007 law says, with the work of the autonomous communities. That's where you have to work and that's where we have a very important field to develop plans and improve. I'm not saying that nothing is being done, but there's a certain passivity. Because I'm surprised you're working on climate change laws, which seem to be worried about this, and don't worry about air quality. Look, there are two things the citizen values, two very important things: healthy food, and a healthy and healthy environment. And air is the environment of the citizen, of the people and of the natural environment and, therefore, the responsibility and the demand and the data that we have to give the citizen must be the maximum. And that's what we have to work on. And there can be no self-congratulation here. Here there must be continuous and permanent work, in order to achieve the best possible objectives, in order to make the best possible environment available to the citizen. Because that's where your health and quality of life will depend. And we're playing a lot on this. And some examples have been given. There is a lot of data missing and, therefore, it is difficult to evaluate some things and from Health they have difficulty evaluating some things. ...of course I do. Professionals say so. But the alarming data is on the table. And I understand that we, of course, what we have done since our amendment to the initial motion, is a point that says that "we need to make a diagnosis of emissions and their sources and what the reality of the Basque Country is." And also that action plans be made, with concrete measures. And in those areas where special treatment is required, especially treatment. And follow-up on the plans. We've been in 10 years, 11 years, and we haven't moved, except in some area. In Bilbao they have now reached an agreement. Bilbao!, with an important density and alarming data at some points. And well, now we've made an agreement. They have a 2015 plan and the assessment I have seen or a small report is quite critical, quite critical. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a lot of scope to act on and we must all be involved in this. But the government, the first.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing round the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u50	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Indeed, it seems that some people even say that they are out of play because they do not understand that the parties we are part of the Government have not tabled an amendment. Well, I'll start by saying I don't believe it. Because this debate you have carried, not in one municipality, not in two, not in three, not in four, not in five, in Bizkaia. And the parties, both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, have done exactly the same in each of the municipalities. And why have we not tabled an amendment? First, because we do not understand that the same text, the same text, with the same words, with the same paragraphs, with the same wording, serves Durango, Muskiz, Gueñes, Legazpi... It equals the people; it equals the casuistic; it equals that there are companies, that there are no companies; that there have been complaints, that there have been no complaints; it equals that they govern some, that they govern others. If that's all right with you. And all they are getting is to create a social alarm in the citizenry, which, of course, concerns us and we are not going to be responsible for it. And Mrs López de Ocariz said, and rightly said, that all the political parties that we are here, including those that we have not tabled amendments, share the concern that the public authorities must have about this matter. And, indeed, we share it too. But we understand that we must carry out some important matifications in the justification that Podemos presents in its initiative, repeated by the province of Bizkaia – I suppose they will move it to the rest of the provinces, after listening to Mrs López de Ocariz that this happens in all the sites of Euskadi – and we understand that we must matify, as I say, some things. Being aware that air pollution is one of the main concerns – not just for you, for all – not only in relation to climate change, but also to the health of the world's population, Basque environmental policy focuses on minimizing this environmental pollution, driven mainly by transport and industry, making information on air pollution more accessible, not only for people to see it easily, but also more understandable and to develop the capacity for anticipation and effective action to control air quality. By the way, that is not what the Basque Government, which has been recognized even by the United Nations, is saying, those United Nations which you are looking at for certain things, but only when it suits you. In this sense, in the justification of the motion are mentioned the episodes, as I say, produced in Durango, Elorrio, Muskiz or Gueñes, among others, in some cases related to polluting episodes from known foci, and in others derived from the existence of strong odors of chemical nature of unknown origin. But as I say to you, you don't care where you come from, where you go, whether the government acts or not. To the truth, we will point out that in all the above-mentioned localities, where this issue has already been discussed and in all the incidents that have been brought to the attention of the authorities responsible for air pollution, action has been taken with all means at the disposal of the Government, both through fixed stations and through the use of mobile stations: Efforts have been made to identify the source of pollution. Both from the point of view of air pollution and the assessment of its impact on health. Precise corrective measures have been imposed, even with the opening of sanctioning files, when they have been the result of bad practice on the part of companies. I want to say that many things have been done, and we have explained it through government appearances, non-legislative proposals and, in this case, through a motion. It is stated that the response of the Department of Environment, Territorial Policy and Housing shows the existence of deficiencies in the design, operation and/or management of the Basque air quality network, a manifestation that we certainly cannot share. All the explanations we know about the different situations that have been experienced in the last few years in the above mentioned municipalities, what is evident is the diligence in the actions of both political and technical officials, in terms of air quality. The explanations have been given about the validations of the air quality network data, which highlights the zeal of the verification of information on the network. The data, Mr Becerra, which are obtained, are obtained continuously, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year; at fixed control stations they are automatically transmitted to the central unit and, when they are placed on the normal operating thresholds set for each detector at each station, they are published and made available to citizens, via the website, automatically and virtually instantaneously. But, of course, to you when there is a fixed instrument, you do not want fixed; when it is mobile, it is that it belongs to the company; when it does not belong to the company, it is that it is the government, as in Petronor's case, that you have said. The case is that you do not believe what the government does, you absolutely distrust the companies and in the meantime you are creating a concern for the citizenry, without alternatives, Mr Becerra, because the government has alternatives. You let go of what you think, without being able to tell the citizen anything the government is doing. But by focusing, which I only have not reached five minutes, the motion that you put forward, Mr de Podemos, was prolific and had many concrete points, which I will try to explain why we are not going to support this initiative so that the out-of-game thing stays there, in a statement: The first point was about ensuring quality and making information accessible to citizens in a simple way. The quality of the air and, in particular, the measurement of the air is a legally regulated activity, but the law does not seem sufficient to you. Access to all data from all fixed stations on the Basque network is immediately available on the website of the Department of Environment for access by anyone, but not now; it has been happening for many years and Mr Becerra, I am sure, knows it. In addition to the fact that these same data can also be accessed through a mobile application, which also makes it possible for the citizen to have access. Point two spoke of updating the air quality network parameters with WHO criteria. With regard to the WHO health protection criteria, it should be noted that the air quality guidelines published in 2005 provide a general guidance on thresholds and limits for key air pollutants that pose health risks and are currently under review and you should know that this report is due for publication by 2020. WHO, which you are also referring to. WHO indices are global benchmarks that set a final objective to be achieved and, at the same time, offer intermediate benchmarks to gradually improve air quality, and are those indices to which governments are subject, in this case, both the central government in Spain and the autonomous governments, in order to adapt to what will be required in future years. The data are related to what is laid down in European legislation, although the air profile published by the department includes a full voluntary mention of WHO values, which is not mandatory, to improve the knowledge of the citizen. Point three spoke of the configuration of the air quality network and the review by an independent and expert entity. The distribution of air quality measurement booths is carried out on the basis of legally established criteria, not what the Government wants to cover or not to cover, but what is laid down by law. There is Directive 2008/50, which is one of the obligations. In general, cabins are located within areas and agglomerations where the highest concentrations of pollutants are recorded in areas representative of population exposure and where levels appear to be of concern or appear to be sometimes suspected of not complying with the law. Annually, from the Euskadi Air Control Network, the levels of contaminants within each area are evaluated and indicative measurement campaigns are carried out to know the levels of pollution in areas where there are no measurement booths. And then in the long term, statistical studies are being carried out to see if what is controlled actually goes with the data that they want to achieve. Point four was about the Department of Health, about mandatory reports on air quality. We understand that the configuration of the air quality network responds to legally assessed and regulated technical criteria and we do not understand that the Department of Health – let alone the municipalities – should, neither by competence nor by technical training, issue mandatory opinions on this matter. Point five talks about making the results public in real time. This is already done, 24 hours 365 days a year, on the web and in mobile application. Point six speaks of the protocol of action between Health and Environment in the face of specific exceedances. You can't come here and say that these two departments, far from collaborating and having relationships, it seems that each one acts as a watertight department, because it's not true. There is close collaboration between the two departments and much more when a specific problem arises in specific municipalities, such as in Gueñes. Point seven speaks of particle measurements complemented by composition analysis; this is already being done. They talk at the eight of the work table. Coordination with Health, as I say to you, is permanent and, as I say, much more when there is an incident. In conclusion, this government – the Department of the Environment and the department headed by Mr Darpón – is concerned about air pollution and the consequences – I see that as well as you; shared concern. But we are also concerned, not least, about what you are creating in those municipalities: that you don't care what municipality comes, what there is or what isn't. You guys don't care. This is squid policy. They let go, and then we'll see what happens. And I conclude, and I say, why are we going to vote against it? Not because we do not worry about air pollution, but because the government is doing what it has to do, because the law is being enforced and because you are using this issue to make policy in certain municipalities, without thinking about the damage you do. You will calculate: if you add up, you take it out, and here you know what's going to happen and, if not, it seems a lie that you don't know this spokesman... Because we do not support demagogy, because we believe that social alarm is irresponsible, because an initiative with the same text cannot be made, because the law is being complied with, because there is transparency and access to information, and because the Government, of course, fulfils its obligations. And I'm done with the president. Finally, when someone wants to reach an agreement, the least they have to do is try to count on the other parties. And for the sake of the truth, I'll say that Mr. Otero got in touch with us, but, man, the person who had presented the initiative, no. I would therefore like to say that, in order to reach agreements, we must have the intention of agreeing on both sides, because you know that with the motion there is much more time to put forward amendments and to be able to negotiate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u51	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days. Well, indeed, air pollution is the main environmental factor associated with premature death and preventable diseases, as has been said. But it is pertinent to start the debate with a realistic diagnosis of what is happening and it is that the parameters of pollution associated with health are, in general, well below the legal limit and also below, in the vast majority of cases, what the WHO marks, which we could qualify as objective value. The current situation. The last reading is from 2017 in the report by the Basque Government on air quality; Mr Arriola also said so. In broad terms, it is good and, comparatively, much better, not only with the Spanish State, but also with France, with Europe. And what is shocking to me is that the two parties, let's say, Proponent Podemos and also you, Mr Otero, do not name and surname the main problem in terms of pollution, which is the car, it is the car, it is the transport, and it seems to me very striking that we have 40 minutes of debate and only... Well, Mrs López de Ocariz has made some mention, but until Mr Red has arrived they have made no mention of 80% of the problem, which is the car. I don't know if it's easier to ask – yes, you have, I said it –... I don't know if it's easier to challenge Petronor's good doing than the citizen consciousness of each one of us, but the truth is that I'm getting the attention not to be given a name and surname. This is a quantitatively urban and qualitatively urban problem too, and well, it has been commented that the measurement, let's say, less favorable has been given in Maria Díaz de Haro street in Bilbao; therefore, we can concretely, given that the biggest city we have is Bilbao and we can go to the bottom of the matter and that in Bilbao the maximum speed has been reduced to 30 kilometers per hour. Ekologistak Martxan, in his last report that also analyzes the air quality of 2017 indicates that, or proposes, 60 kilometers per hour; that is, Bilbao has reduced it to half of what the ecologists propose. It is a city with a very efficient public transport network, and I have here written 'of the best in the world' – I am not going to fall into the bilbainada – but, of course, the price is reasonable, and the efficiency and frequency of the service is noticeable. It is a dense city that invites you to walk and is a city that improves in its fiscal ordinances the purchase of electric and also hybrid vehicle. Bilbao therefore complies with all the recommendations proposed by the ecologists. And by exercising realism and responsibility, and by going to the bottom of the matter, we can say: is there still a lot of room left in the competent authorities to tackle the problem? For in ours, at the municipal level, parliaments and the Basque Government, the room for manoeuvre is getting narrower and narrower. Plans are being implemented at European level, also at state level, to discourage the purchase of diesel. In Germany to renew the fleet of vehicles. But, well, it's a transition that we all understand will be, well, that... slow and progressive. But the Discourse of Podemus, also of Other, speaketh of enpresies. And here, as I said before, I see a distortion between the discourse... He had so much trouble between what he was saying, but it was between speech and reality. You put a little Distorted focus on the problem. And, well, recently, we had Gueñes of the Aliman Act on the Environment Committee, and I'll confirm what I said there and repeat it. But it's good for the Gueñines, or for those who live near Elderon Metal Smelting, or for those who live near Durangon Fumbarri, or for those who dwell near the Port. And it is, I think, that institutions must continue this training of empathy, that they must be near the neighbors, even though the neighbors, as we'll see, have the information to be made available later on, and I think they must continue to do it, in order to be that empathy. For we don't like to look out of the window and see the chimneys smoke, so that, in this state of people with a certain point of convenience, they must continue to go and stay present, and their mistrust in some cases is set aside in the case of the Economics. We may say that infection does not question political fiction before you get your nose inside, so I think we're all on the same boat here. I now turn to the text they have agreed. We haven't had much time; but, well, it's a mix of what PP, Elkarrekin Podemos, and Bildu were proposing: They talk, at the first point, of offering more accessible, visual information... to citizens. And I... – and we can do a practical exercise right now – one puts in Google 'air, Euskadi', click on <euskadi.eus> and only with two clicks access. I have now agreed to Durango's, because it is the one Mr Becerra has mentioned. Air quality index, good. In a visual way, and yes, with colors, but it is that, in addition, 10 parameters come measured with the amount of them. For example, mobile particles 2.5 microns, 21. Not so far from the 25th of the WHO, but below. Mobile particles of 10 microns. Carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide; finally, 10 parameters in a visual form. And it also provides the option to get graphics. Graphics that are more visual impossible. Secondly, a joint action protocol is requested between the various departments concerned with the matter: that of Mr Arriola, that of the Environment, and that of Health. And I, as I understand it, and I understand it firsthand, there's already an elkarlana. And, thirdly, you propose greater debate, or greater participation in judging whether the current network, fixed and mobile, is well thought out, and you mention... At the fourth place, EH Collecter mentioned, for instance, that he was obliged to receive a report of the medical department, of the municipal townships, and of the University of the Basque Country, which I do not know about the excretion; he does not place the frequency, but it may be every year, and I believe that it slows things down in operation. There is a contrast, in fact, that the government has, and you claim it, and the government has an external company that investigates this network, and well, it does what contributes to improve the position of that web, and so it is done. And for the third reason, I'd say, Ms. Ronojo has explained that it's a bit o'clock to create an alarm. And Mr Becerra, at this point, I would like to particularly thank you for your intervention. Because you come – you don't always do, but in this case you do – with a story story of dubious sources: the doctor, the neighbor, with a fault – in this case, I will tell you – of rigor in your speech. If we are talking about a problem of perception of public pollution, the least we can do is maintain a certain rigour in the discourse, and not come up with cases that we don't know very well about who they are. They want to set off the alarm and, therefore, Mrs Red has already put it forward, we are going to vote against her initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u54	Senoral Barra. It draws my attention to the fact that in his speech he has devoted an effort – I would say almost superhuman – to dividing between bad signatories and good signatories of this initiative, and it also draws my attention to the fact that he wanted to highlight that the source of the problem is trafficking and that we have not said anything. We have not said either that it is traffic or that it is business. We have said nothing precisely because air quality has multiple origins and, moreover, within our compromise text and as a contribution from Mrs López de Ocariz, we have already included analysing the sources and origin of pollution. There are no signatories, as I say, neither good nor bad. Mrs López de Ocariz has focused the matter, possibly in a more elegant way than I, saying that we do not even get the quality of the air to be the one that citizens want – and that is so in many towns and cities – nor are we making adequate information available to citizens. And it has been added by Mr. Otero that the net must be improved, and that the European Union has established it, whether we measure it well or not. But, perhaps in all your speeches, I cannot deny that Mrs Red's is always on the line: it begins with the social alarm. Our group is not promoting a social alarm. Today in the rostrum there are people coming from Durango, and they have come motu proprio So, the social alarm is on the street. What we have limited ourselves to some groups is, literally, to bring that concern here, to bring it here. And the same in Gueñes. When 2,000 people go to the street in Gueñes, to demonstrate, all political groups, including yours, Mrs. Red, even yours, go to the street to demonstrate, is it because Elkarrekin Podemos is going to take them out of his house? No, no, And this is happening in many-many municipalities. And before this, for you say: the government has alternatives. Well, write them down, agree, because I suspect that what happens is that you don't even agree. They do agree to overthrow an ILP and other things, but not to launch alternatives to solve problems that citizens have. You have referred, Mr Arruabarrena, to the mobile application that allows you to see the data instantly (air quality data), and also Mrs Red said that they are published instantly on the web. Look, if you come in with your mobile – which will be good; you won't see it that big, but I'm going to put it on it – what you find every day and at all stations is that, when the level rises and gets close to the maximum legal allowable, the signal disappears, Mr. Arruabarrena; the signal disappears. And you know what happens? That many people, and it's already more smart than it looks, because people are more smart than it looks and do a bit on the Internet, and there are on the Internet American, Chinese and even Canary applications, that with the same data that the government doesn't, it does, and where the government leaves a hole, the international application puts you in red that is exceeding the limits. This is what you can find with any mobile today. And then, you tell me, Mr. Arruabarrena, you tell me, Mrs. Red, who is feeding today the social alarm not giving the information that has to be given, truthful, punctual and contrasted? And, of course, our group would have wanted to reach agreement, and we had all the amendments to the motions before they were registered. Two weeks ago, and I don't like to have to talk about the negotiations or the internal talks, I congratulated Mrs. Red, asked her about the holidays and said, "Are you going to amend our motion?" He said to me, "Of course, because everything about the environment is agreed," he said, "there are agreements." And here we are. And I would not have said this if you, Mrs Red, had not said that it is clearly not the will of our group to reach agreements. Of course it's reaching agreements. In fact, we have. And we would have reached an agreement with the government, but you have no alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Meet EH from the team, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u56	Mrs. Red, the movement is moving... The will to agree is done through an amendment. You do not make any amendments; then what will there be to agree? And the text is not the same as the one that is being presented in the municipalities. And you have spoken here of mandatory reports of municipalities that do not exist in the transactional. Look at him again, please, because he's wrong. With regard to alarmism, I refer you to the report of the European Court of Auditors with which I have started, in which you are telling us that "the health of citizens is still very much affected by air pollution". And it happens here too. Please go to the European Court of Auditors and tell them you're making alarm. At the bottom of the car, sir, we didn't focus here because the dimensions around the air quality network were proposed in protocols and information. So the car doesn't come in here, and we're not even in size to lower pollution. And I have spoken in confidence, not because companies are more polluted than cars, I agree with you. I agree with you that there are measurements around the companies, and that the measurements are under the control of one or the other. I think I can explain that. And you said one thing that's harpsichord, and we have to start from a good diagnosis. And you said the objective value is that OMS puts it in the world's Medical Association. Eta have doubted that "it is good, that on a general level it is good". Eta Natalia Rojok said that "the government gives accessible and understandable information". Well, why do we strive to say that at a general level it is good, if the European Court of Auditors tells us that the greatest death from air pollution comes from particles 2.5 and it turns out that we have, according to the objective values, according to you, of the WHO, about one and a half million people in the Basque Autonomous Community who are breathing, on average annually, values that are harmful to health, according to the WHO? It just doesn't fit what he's saying. I mean, if they're objective values and we have these real values, we can't say that the situation is good. And, by the way, to make the breakdown and to make the comparison with WHO, I have not been able to go to the annual report of the air quality assessment published by the Basque Government. I had to go to the report on air quality in the Spanish state during 2017 by Ecologists in Action, because it is the one who does it, because the Basque Government does not do it. It makes a slight reference, without disaggregated data, to the WHO guidelines. Okay. And then I think I've got too much time to do it, but I don't know how to say it for you, you know, dialectically or dialectical combat, Mr. Bareas, your example. You've made a hell of an example and said: I'll show you both clicks how it is. Well, those two clicks with what you've done, so have I. But look how curious it is. You said that in two clicks I check that the air quality in Durango, which has put the case, is good. And so have I. But it is good according to some indices that, let's put it this way, they are distorted, and this is what the European Court of Auditors is telling us, because it says that the information given by the public authorities is not the most appropriate, etc., etc. And it's curious, because if we go to the European Environment Agency, and this is the slide I had before and I think it's very interesting ( Orri bat erakusten du But, according to the funkong clacking, like the Beccél said, it could be better than green. The European Agency says it's bad. And if you go on to these facts, you'll see the small buttal particles, 2,5 microchtens, on 21, right now in Durango. And according to the health organization in the world, all the measures above 10 are injurious to health. So, in Durango right now, the healthy air is doubled according to the world's health organization. So how can you say that the quality of the air is good in Durango? Please, we're just talking about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Madame de Ocariz, the Basque Popular, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u58	Yes, briefly, to clarify some issues. Well, pollution levels are generated by the car, they're generated by industry, they're generated by architecture, they're generated by agriculture, by the natural environment... I believe that 80% to which you have referred is a figure that has come out in recent days and that there is a percentage of cars that generate 80% of vehicle emissions. That's different, the old cars. But I think the overall percentage doesn't come to that. I said to them and I insist: I think we have a lot of scope to do; that emission reduction plans are very important to do so; that we have to comply with the 2007 law, which tells us that the autonomous communities have to make plans and programmes to improve air quality. That we have the plans for 2007. That some of us have neither looked at them nor know what conclusions these plans have had. What has been done? Where did we stay? Some do, but one works with a certain rigor. So, it's very important. Look, I think that from the Government of Spain the General Plan is made for all of Spain, then the autonomous communities... Six months ago the 2017-2019 Plan was approved, which changes some parameters that existed before, which has adapted to the new regulations of the year 2016, new parameters, and which tells us that we have to evaluate especially ozone, particles, especially PM10 and PM2.5; nitrogen oxides, with special attention to nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, ammonia, non-methane volatile organic compounds. Finally, I believe that we have an important job to do and that from that data we have to make a clear diagnosis and make them available to the public, because what creates alarm is occultism. That creates alarm: not knowing what conditions I was and am in. Whether I'm getting better or not. And the Administration has to make an important effort, because it is responsible for measuring this data, and transferring it to the citizenry, and for doing so rigorously. And, above all, in those areas of special concentration of some activities; especially. Because at the top of Urbia it is not necessary to do this, but in some areas of the Basque Country, with an important density of some activities that may have emissions, because it is necessary to do so. And I have to generate the data to the citizens of the environment; I have to transmit the data to them to generate trust, but not communicating, that does generate alarm, because doubt and distrust enters. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of whether you have not made an amendment, what you have to do is work hard, adapt to the rules and meet the parameters of the European directive and the plan as well, the last air quality plan that was adopted in 2007. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u60	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Becerra, there is one thing in this Parliament that I think we should all put into practice, which is parliamentary courtesy, together with telling the truth. I'm on my turn, Mr. Becerra, I'd ask you for a little respect, because I hear a lot of things that I don't like and politely endure. Then I'll tell you one thing. First, private conversations are not counted in a rostrum. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u62	You don't count the private conversations that you and I have, or that we have with anyone. You know why? Because then we started to have less. Because I'll stop trusting you. This is a matter of trust. And, on top of that, he missed the truth. I didn't tell him we were going to table an amendment. You asked me, how about the summer – which, by the way, fantastic – and then you told me if we were going to talk about air pollution, because you thought it was an important issue to agree on. And I told him, man, of course we'll talk, we always talk about the environment. From there to the amendment, I think there's a bit going on. So, then, first, you don't tell the private, and then, if you do, tell the truth. And this is a parliamentary courtesy that I think we should all apply, because talks in the offices we have all, Mr Becerra, all of us. I won't tell you any more. Second. You say: Who is feeding the social alarm? Well, honestly, you guys. You are fuelling the social alarm, because I understand that the citizen comes to the political parties and parliamentary groups, in this case, to raise our concerns, and more to the parties that have representation in the municipalities. But when someone comes up with a concern, you don't have to encourage and encourage and not be able to put alternatives, because this group that I represent puts alternatives on the table. Another thing is that you don't like them. And then, I tell you. First, you do not give credibility to the data provided by the Government. You delegitimize the tools the government has equipped itself with, such as cabins, mobiles and fixed ones. And you consider that the parameters required by the law are not sufficient. It is impossible to reach an agreement, if you believe that the Government lies, that it misuses the instruments and that the laws are at least permissive. It is very difficult to reach an agreement with you, because you deny the greatest. And it's very complicated to be able to sit down. So, two don't argue if one doesn't want to. But two don't remember if one doesn't want to, either. And you on this subject did not want to agree. And you, Mr. Otero, were telling me that it's not the same text. And I repeat to you again: it is that I in the first intervention – and I have said this – referred to the original motion, which is with which I prepare my interventions, because the transactional amendment I have known here, and the original amendment was textual in each of the municipalities of Bizkaia. And it's not the same and you can't compare the industrial reality of Gueñes with the industrial reality of Durango, and you can't use the same text and make people understand that everything is the same, because everything is not the same. And then, the data is 24 hours 365 days. They can be seen in the mobile app. Then Mr. Becerra comes and tells us that people are very smart, that I had never doubted it. –I think we sometimes undervalue people – and that then as the government's application I don't know at what time, you say it's not true, because there are other applications, even canaries – that I don't know what the 'even' ones came to – that he hears, that they give other different data. And I can ask you: why is the American application more credible than that of my Government? Why? Because you're more interested in believing what another app says, hey! Let's see if the Internet will now have the solutions of the world. Man, please. That's demagogy! And that's telling everyone what they want to hear. And you are part of a Parliament that runs it by a government that has instruments. If you don't like them, work to change them. And we have laws that set some parameters, and if they seem to you few, work to change them. And if you want the government parties to join the agreements, work for the agreements. And I end up like I started. If this is going to start by telling things that are not true, by not wanting to negotiate when you are not interested, because you know that in this Parliament, in the environment, normally, the issues are agreed, but what cannot be done is for you to replicate this debate in all the municipalities. – you will know why – echoing where they are interested and where they think they are going to win it and want to go to this Parliament, hey!, and that the PNV and the PSE vote the opposite than in the other peoples, we do not know for the sake of what, when the government is the same and the political parties are the same. At another time, we would have been marked with incoherent, they say what they want where they care, the oligopolies of the companies... This kind of stuff we're used to hearing here when you're interested. I conclude by saying that this debate was a debate of the deaf. You knew from the beginning what we were going to say the two parties that we are part of the government: the law in hand, the parameters are fulfilled; before an illegality, you already know where to go, and you don't have to come here to demagogue and lie to the citizen creating frustrations, which is what you do. And then, the ignorance of the network is absolute on its part, and I think we should stick to the thresholds that set the rules. We comply with European legislation, we comply with the parameters of the WHO and well, it now seems that today we only have to fix ourselves in the European Court of Auditors, which Mr Otero has repeated to us forty times, and today we have no need of framework directives, today we have no need of what the WHO says, today we have no need of the recognition of the United Nations because you are not interested in it. Well, look, if there's a violation of the law, you know where you have to go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u63	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u64	Well, what strength does Mr. Becerra have to say that there are concerned citizens on the stage. Look, you in your motion mention Durango, Elorrio, Muskiz, Gueñes, Zorrotza and San Ignazio. Look, I've lived 31 years of my life in Elorrio, I've studied in Durango, I've worked seven years in Zorrotza, and now I live in San Ignazio, with which I look and I don't have a third eye. I want to say that I can be as affected by pollution as the citizens who are listening to us, with all respect for them, of course – one of them, by the way, political responsible in his party. Secondly, there are no good or bad signatories here, but there are responsible speeches and irresponsible speeches, and for me, yours has been irresponsible today, and yes, it has had a rather remarkable lack of rigour. Well, Mr. Otero, how difficult it is to justify that, being the main problem of air pollution in Euskadi the car, I have not mentioned it once in 10 minutes; it is complicated, it is complicated, you have achieved it because you are skilled in dialectics, but it is complicated. Thirdly, I have talked about WHO values and, moreover, I have said, objective values. One objective is what is intended to be achieved and we have achieved it in most of the parameters and in most of the Basque municipalities. They are the objective, and we must continue to work to ensure that the compliance is 100%. Objective value; I said it at first. And, Mr Otero – and also Mr Becerra – you can raise the level of demand to wherever you want, but it is that we start from a reality and it is that Euskadi was declared contaminated atmosphere in 77. The transfer came in 81, and today, we have 54 fixed stations, and I'm going to tell you: we have one of the best air quality measurement networks in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Now that the discussion is over, we're gonna vote together with Podemos, Euskal Populars and the middle-direction signed by the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u66	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Provide the same proposal as parlamental groups about using telematic controls in machista cases of violence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The High Court, represented by the EHG, is the lady's word, the initiative, the introduction, and the departure of the party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u67	Good noon, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u69	Today's proposal, which we are going to discuss today, is a proposition which we saw, due to the treatment made by Ziorz Linares on June 5th, on the basis of the commission of Job and Justice, was absolutely necessary. The witnesses of Linares are about to be executed by informers, what are they to do? He put it on the table. To our surprise, it was the first thing he'd discussed to us when he went to report it, that is, when he went to the local area of the edge, there was no one at that moment to be charged with the guard, and to return it another day. After all this, it was what he told us, when he began to charge his charges about the other service, that he realized that there was a very great decodulation among all these services. Then his career ended in front of the courts, and he saw also what sort of dysfunctions he had with the lawyer at the first moment and then with the other lawyers who had been placed behind the avenue. Then we made a clear conclusion of what had been related to us: the system fracast which revealed to us was the system failure. And seeing that this was the case with the system, we thought that things to do well ought to be proposed for revision, so that we proposed the proposal. Because you can't ask women to report it, and once they do, we can't leave them alone, we can't leave them helpless. We can't tell them to move on without any help, and we can't do a job that then has no impact on reality. Azken egun hauetan ikusi dugu hori geratazzen ari of her age hori geratati dela. Adibide argi bat izan dugu Bilbon, Atxurin: emakume batek (Maguette) salaketa bat jarri zuen, eta systemek ez zuen erantzunik eman, eta system horrek erantzunik ez zuelako eman, azkenean, hilik agertu zen. I had the opportunity to be with Maguette's brother, and Maguette's brother asked me, "But how is it possible that no one gave an answer to my sister? Who's responsible for this? Who do I have to take responsibility for because she went to court and the judge said there wasn't enough reason to give a warrant? I've come here more times and we've filed more complaints and the Ertzaintza hasn't accompanied us either. Now what do I do?" And the truth is, I didn't know what to answer; I didn't know what to tell him because, in fact, it shows that, despite what we say and what we do, sometimes things happen differently. Eta niretzako ez da nahiko ore Juan Luis Ibarrak esaten donean "Justice has failed". Yes, but the problem is not that it fails, the problem is that, when it fails and fails in a strepit way, the consequence is very important and, above all, it has no turning back. When a judicial body says that it does not give an order to a person, a woman or anyone who suffers from sexist violence, what it does is to create a kind of cloak of impunity in relation to the aggressor. Eta, hen, atzo, interbentzio ha prestationen egon nintzenean, sartu nintzen web orri batan, in that of the Council of the Judicial Power, éta hor ikusi nuen zelan kontseilua bera konturatu den hori geratazzen ari de la éta zelan agulando berezi batzuk bota dituen epaile guztientzat, esanez: salaketa gauza hauek suertatzen direnean, kontuan izan, ze ondorioak normalan oso latzak dira. The council tells the judges: when you report things that look small, that are small things, that are minor crimes, that are insults, that are..., you have to be much more careful than when you report serious violence, because often the consequence afterwards is a much stronger aggression, and tells them to take it into account. We don't know where those instructions are lost, because that's not the case. Now, what we see everywhere is that they're all on the side of the change. Everyone's planning that changes should be made. Yesterday, the Minister of Spain, Mr. Grande Marcha, had made a commitment in Congress at Madrid, and concluded that the changes must be made, that things are not working well, and that all the protocols and the established laws must be repressed and make new proposals. This is what brings us here today. We see what's happening and we think things must be evaluated and directed. It is true, and it must be recognized and valued, that the feminist movement has succeeded, with much effort and work, in varying consciences and has also succeeded in including the eradication of macho violence in all agendas. It's on everyone's agenda and all of us. And there have never been so many laws, so many protocols and so many actions from all institutions in relation to macho violence; however, it is clear that, despite this, there are still gaps, that there are gaps in law enforcement and that this needs to be corrected. We don't want to say any more from this tribe that we have to make a new change. We don't want to come here again to tell them that we women are still suffering this violence. Many things must be done, but some things are very practical and it is possible to do so at the moment. There is one issue that is important to note: violence against women, macho violence, violence against all people who suffer it in these terms... is to act against a fundamental right, and is thus recognized in the United Nations and in all international letters; a fundamental right is violated when such action is taken. And we also want to make it clear: that's why we need to act, that's why we need to end all this... Therefore, seeing him as a saying that we are almost all here agreeing with him, and that we desire to end it, the agreement is grateful: We've made a large deal, the agreement of all the teams, and some measures to get ahead. I think this agreement is very important, because it shows – and I want to say it too – that this House is making a big deal about this issue, and that in this, at least – I would like it to be in more things, but at least in this – we are all in agreement, and we are going to do everything in our hands to make this change and this change possible. It's a long deal, it's got six points. It's very important for me to think about some points of women's point of view, to consider the contributions of feminist movement. This is important, but it was also as an example, and this was the basis of the scene at its moment, but then they counted other things, different things that had been laid about the pulse. On the bracelet, which was one of the points Mrs Linares came to talk about, what she explained to us was that they were put on women and that to her that seemed a double victimization, because it is she who is controlled and what she proposed to us is that control, she understood, had to be in relation to the aggressor. That is why the proposal reflects what it was telling us, and we have come to the consensus that that is indeed the case. And that if women ask, the one who has to be controlled is the assailant. But we also propose to revise the protocols; we also propose to amend another issue which Mrs Linares raised as very important to us. It's from the ofiziozko txanda it's horrendous ondorioz geratazzen direction guztiak gauza. Horretarako, abokatu eta prokuradoreen wool behar da; bath, bed age, department deberdinen arteko akordioa lortu behar da, hori aldatzeko. A lawyer, an attorney, and a single person, who will be able to control the whole proceedings from the start to the end, is absolutely indispensable when such things happen. That's the deal. We agree on that, and I think it proves, as I said before, that this is a step forward. I will end by saying one thing that is important: we women have to empower ourselves, we have to raise the voice, we have to transform, we have to do all these things to move forward and to achieve real equality. But sometimes alone we can't, we need the help of the institutions. And that help has to be effective; it has to be fast, it has to be cross-cutting and it has to be able to prevent situations like those we have seen these days from happening again. Let no one ever stay behind. That this does not happen again is what we want; but in the meantime, we will implement and implement the measures we have agreed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u70	Thank you, signor. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u71	Yes, good noon to all. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the prevention and eradication of machist violence is a priority axis of work, all year round and from the minute one we come to this legislature. Feminist policies are a priority for this parliamentary group, and we have the firm intention that feminist policies are also a priority on the legislative and government agenda. And that translates into concrete measures and real and sufficient resources. For this reason, it is always positive and we welcome the initiatives that debate inequality, violence, discrimination, in short, violations of the rights of women, girls, adolescents, young people and adults, because they are an obstacle to achieving a fully democratic, just and equal society. And that is why we are very proud in the transaction of this initiative, which, in addition to including the victims of sexist violence covered by the law, has also been achieved, for example, in the work of revising the protocols, as well as urging the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the State to prioritize and ensure the safety of girls, adolescents and children of women victims of sexist violence. In what we're going to 2018, and as in 2017, the number of complaints of sexist violence continues to increase. This is stated by the General Council of the Judiciary, the Department of Security and the Office of the Prosecutor. Moreover, in recent weeks, unfortunately, we have witnessed a growing number of serious incidents of violence against women, with irreversible consequences in some cases. We talk about Mary Joseph, 43 years old; Florentine, 69; we talk about Maguette, and we also talk about her daughters and children, her relatives, her friends, her neighbors, people who have been orphaned because of the Machist violence. The number of complaints of gender-based violence per partner or ex-partner has increased, and the number of complaints of violence by strangers has also increased, such as sexual assaults during the holidays of our towns and cities. The increase in these complaints has an explanation, which has to do with a greater social awareness and because we are becoming more and more clear that 'no is no'. In this case, and only in this case, we all welcome this increase in complaints. We recognize all the progress made, which we owe primarily to the history of struggles, demands and proposals of women's organizations and the feminist movement, and only through their struggle have governments and societies been made aware of. We recognize that some policies have been important to raise awareness and visibility. But we miss a much braver and more comprehensive intervention that ensures yes or no prevention, starting with schools. Today the debate has been rejected here for a more inclusive and egalitarian school, and, of course, if we do not invest more in education, if we do not bet on a co-educational school, little will be done in prevention. As I said, we need comprehensive intervention, which, in addition to prevention, also ensures early detection, care, protection and, of course, reparation for victims. To this end, it is necessary and essential that all the Basque Government, everything, all the institutions, at all levels, commit and allocate resources, and if we talk about resources, does this Government consider that 14 euros per person per year in the more than 250 municipalities, three deputies and the Basque Government are sufficient? Not for us. We want an Euskadi free of sexist violence, and we are convinced that the best strategy for the prevention of violence is to move towards equal opportunities and results in absolutely all areas of life. In the face of the steady increase in the number of complaints, in the face of the most serious episodes of Machist violence in recent days, we expect nothing but a critical and responsible review of what is being done, more and better sectoral and cross-cutting policies, as well as new measures, more resources, priority and real commitment from the entire Basque Government. And, therefore, because we have to make a critical review of what has failed with Maguette, for example, we have registered an initiative so that in a closed commission, out of respect for the victims, all the institutions involved, all make an assessment of the response systems. And although today's initiative is a step forward, it is true that it is somewhat partial, and that is why we proposed that In-house evaluation of all existing systems. The initiative we are discussing today focuses on improvement measures for those women who choose to report. In the Committee on Labour and Justice we had the opportunity, as Mrs Goirizelaia has said, to hear the testimony of our colleague Mrs Ziortza Linares. Once again, we reiterate our gratitude for your generosity and courage for coming to share your personal case with Parliament; taking into account your situation, it was an enormous act of commitment to your family, to all women and, in particular, to those who live in a situation similar to yours. From their testimony and dialogue with experts, women's organizations and the feminist movement drew some conclusions, with which we carried out the work we have been doing, and also with which we were able to rethink new lines of political action. All this is what we are trying to do through the amendment we have made to the whole. I will share the main ideas: The need to make it clear that sexist violence is not just blows, that there are multiple forms of sexist violence exercised by couples, ex-partners, relatives or strangers; and that they must be assumed with the same responsibility by all the institutions that intervene. Machist violence is a systematic and repetitive violation of human rights, and is an obstacle to the exercise of citizenship, of our citizenship. In addition to putting physical and psychological integrity at risk, they impact on the possibility of access and maintenance, for example, of employment, the possibility of participating in training and educational activities, in economic autonomy, in sexual and reproductive health, the possibility of participating, of having a community and social network, of enjoying leisure, culture. In short, with Machist violence, half the population cannot exercise – we cannot fully exercise – our citizenship. There is no democratic coexistence or social justice or equality. We understand that prevention and awareness-raising policies are fundamental, but the public administration must also be prepared to take care of, protect and repair. There is a long way to go in these areas, and we do not see the resources needed to make a leap in these areas either quantitatively or qualitatively. Let us remember that the Basque Government allocates a very low 0.11% of resources for equality and the eradication of machist violence. Let us remember, once again, that in the more than 250 municipalities in Euskadi, 3 outlaws and the Basque Government are spent 30.3 million euros to work on equality and, consequently, the eradication of Machist violence. We've said it once and a thousand times and we'll keep doing it. 14 euros per person per year to eradicate sexist violence seems to us little and, when we talk about cross-cutting in budgets, ladies and gentlemen, without concrete measures or evaluation programmes to check that this supposed cross-cutting is being efficient, it is not worth us. Our group has been working on different initiatives to increase resources. I take the opportunity to urge all political groups to be aware of the problem once and for all and to put sufficient resources in place so that they do not have to regret any more feminicide, no more aggression, no more violation of rights. Children and adolescents living in situations of domestic sexist violence are also victims, and as such have to be cared for and protected in all services, in all police stations and in all courts, with age-appropriate actions and specific rights that assist them as minors. We need changes in policies to eradicate machist violence; the re-victimization generated by institutional policies is a reality that we need to review, with self-criticism and responsibility, and change quickly. We will have the committee closed so that we can work on all these policies and assess whether they are working or not. Women must be able to move towards a violence-free life project, with protection and reparation measures that do not re-victimize and condition their daily lives as little as possible. Through Mrs Linares' testimony, for example, we have understood very clearly that 24-hour surveillance must be carried by the aggressor, not the victims. Police or judicial complaints are very important, but should not be the only way to access the entire battery of care, protection and redress measures. We would have to redesign other possible routes for women who report on the situation in the social services system, the health system or the education system, and who do not want or are not prepared for police or judicial intervention. I'm finishing up. When you have to go to the use of devices such as the bracelet or escort, it is important to carry out a responsible analysis from the Public Administration of everything that has failed before and not to continue wearing bracelets without having reviewed what is failing. These resources should also be the ultimate option, and currently 52 women live with escorts and 22 with bracelets. I do not want to end the intervention without remembering that all these measures that we have adopted in this transaction must be agreed and worked by the organization, with the participation of women's organizations and feminists experts in this field and, in particular, with the participation of women's associations that have been victims and survivors of machist violence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u73	Good morning, everyone. Today, again, in plenary, we are going to debate macho violence, right?, in particular, measures to protect victims, a point that has brought EH Bildu on this occasion and that on another occasion we have brought other groups, because there are always initiatives and it is interesting, and you have said it before to me, that I should come out to this rostrum: it is necessary to continue talking about the problem of gender violence. But I want to emphasise – Jone has done so, and Eukene has done something about it – that, on all occasions when we have dealt with the subject of macho violence in this Parliament, we have managed to agree on all the political forces, because I believe that in this matter, in this matter... it is much more that unites us than it is that differentiates us. I believe that this is an important value in politics today, and in this particular area we have a lot in common. And it is that the objectives we share and allow us to agree are very clear for all political formations: on the one hand, achieving full equality and, on the other hand, ensuring comprehensive protection and care for victims of macho violence. Because violence, you have already said, which in its different forms is exercised against women, seriously violates their dignity, their physical and moral integrity, and constitutes, as Jone Goirizelaia has said, a grave violation of human rights. Violence that has its roots in the structural situation of inequality suffered by women in the different spheres of their lives. Machist violence is a problem that affects all of us. And we have to recognize, and I want it to be acknowledged here, that we have made progress and we have done it in the right direction. We can't give another different message. Because what was once considered a particular matter, something that was happening inside the house, has already become a public matter, something that concerns the whole of society, everyone and everyone. And we know, and we know and recognize that there is a long way to go. And it's true. But I believe that today too from this rostrum we must leave a clear message and that, if you suffer violence, you must denounce it, that you go to any institution, because we are to help you, we are to accompany you, because we are at your side. And we must insist again and again on this message. I do not share that there is a failure of the system. It is a system that needs to be improved, it is a system that needs to be reviewed, from that critical position, yes; that takes the first step to recognize, yes, from responsibility, but to advance in the correction of those dysfunctions or holes that the system currently has. We know and share that gender-based violence needs to be addressed from policies of full equality. Because equality allows, equality will allow... that both women and men can develop their capacities and make their decisions, without limitations imposed by gender stereotypes. And we know and share that public policies must be aimed at ensuring that real equality between women and men, and at eradicating gender-based violence. And we have to work tirelessly to achieve that real equality. But also, we must work to count, as long as we do not get it, on security measures for those who have not achieved that freedom and seek in those who represent them sufficient protection. And it is true, and I firmly believe so, that we have a comprehensive protection and guarantee system. But it is also true, and I recognize it, that it is a system that is not perfect, that has holes, that has dysfunctions. For what was moved to us by Ziortza was not that he had no system to go to; he spoke to us of certain dysfunctions, of certain holes. He talked about psychological care, what it cost to be offered or given primarily to his children. He told us that he had free justice and that he thanked him, because that had allowed him a defense, but that there was a dysfunction in which there were several lawyers who went to attend to him in the various incidents, because there was no contact and they did not know his case, and that limited them to the colleagues, to the lawyers who were going, professional colleagues meant, to be able to attend to his situation well. Because she had a personal protection, a personal protection that had dysfunctions, but that she had guaranteed at this time that she could come and tell us. Because he found a reference in the accompaniment and the relief necessary for her at that moment, in that accompaniment, as I say, intimate, therapeutic... in the service of care for the Victim. Well, it is true that he also told us many failures of what the anguish of that bracelet meant by ringing at all times, of those checks at three o'clock in the morning, of that lack of credibility that agents or operators to which he had to address, those inappropriate comments of the Ertzaintza that he attended, that lack of credibility or that slowness of the court, that exasperated her. Yes, of course there was. But that's what we have to try to improve and I think that's what we've tried to do or what we're going to make proposals in our transactional. We Socialists have defended, and this is what is in our programme of government, the need for Euskadi to have a specific law for the eradication of violence against women. But we are currently working with the feminist movement, with Emakunde and the rest of the parties to see the best way to tackle it. What worries my group and I most, rather than the legislative technique we use, is that we are able to agree, above all, on an effective, cross-cutting and effective outcome. And this effectiveness, and Eukene has also said, has to do primarily with coordination, with training, with the improvement of technical means, with education, with comprehensive care, with non-revictimization. We want to talk about a unique window to care for these women and what we want is for these women who have just been assaulted or who feel afraid, or who decide at one time to knock on a door, whatever, the one they want to knock on (a city hall, a courthouse, a police station) to have access to health care, housing, police or any other type of care they need, that they really talk and have comprehensive and cross-cutting care. And the initiative, despite the title that was initially given to him, that spoke of telematic control in cases of macho violence, which we colloquially know as the bracelets, and of which you have spoken and of which, it is true, we had a direct knowledge of its defective functioning through the courageous testimony that made us Ziortza and that we have to thank him, because he has a much broader vision. And it is in this broad range of perspectives, areas of action, of actors concerned that we have managed to negotiate an amendment by all the political groups and that the People's Party will also support, although it has not been able to sign it because it did not submit an amendment at the time. And although you have explained some of the measures, I think it is important that from the rostrum let's say again and again what we're talking about. Because all the groups, and also the socialist, believe that it is necessary that all the departments concerned by the Basque Government – security, justice, employment, housing, education, social services – coordinated through Emakunde, review the protocols of action, because they have to correct the dysfunctions that are becoming manifest. And this has to be done – fundamental as well – in collaboration with women's associations and associations of victims of violence, because they are the ones who know first hand what is failing, what obstacles they face. And it is essential, too, that the Government of Spain improve the electronic surveillance system, the famous bracelets, so that they meet the objective for which they were designed and that the victim is protected, that he feels safe, that it is possible to certify the breaches, the breaches, and not the anguish and the fear that brought us Ziortza in the appearance. The General Council must also be involved and must encourage the judiciary to use these means of control and to really form on equal terms. The Basque institutions, all of them – the Basque Government, outlaws and municipalities – must be involved, within the inter-institutional agreement for the care of women victims of gender, in order to improve the services intended for the integral assistance of these victims. And we also ratify, as we Socialists and other groups have done in the State Pact against Violence, the urgent need to undertake legislative reforms, so that control measures are applied to the victim if requested by the victim. That is, that it is the aggressor who has to endure that control and not the victim, because that, and we know it very well some, stops allowing you an ordinary life. And ultimately, we also ask – and I share that; Jone has explained it very well – that the College of the Attorney General and the Office of the Attorney General must change the criterion of assigning an ex officio lawyer to the special shift we have of gender-based violence, so that a single lawyer and a prosecutor will attend to all judicial incidents, from the beginning to the end, of a victim. I believe it is important that we re-emphasize the effort we have made to maintain the unity of voice and action. In that regard, we must always leave out issues that we would all like. We have will, we share the goal. Resources have been provided, they have to continue to be provided. Ziortza trusts us, he told us at the end of the appearance. We want to plant face to face with the problem. We don't want any of them to stay behind. We make proposals, so let's go get them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The greatest part of it is said, and I think the most remarkable, that what has been said before, is, to come and make a treaty with all of us, in order to speak to such a harsh subject. We always say, that the characteristic of the equality of the genus is the most severe, and that there are only a few murdered women last week, and not only women, but that almost so many men are satisfied with the murder of their own wives or wives. And, to tell you the truth, it's like we're starting to get used to hearing news every day and I have to admit that it's hard for me to see an ending. Here we have mentioned, well, that we have made an agreement to take so many measures in the middle of our day. The field lady has spoken, well, in the event like the events of the past week, she sees the system fracas. I wouldn't say that, I don't think the system is working, maybe not as well as it should be at some moments, and things like that happen, and we need to improve, even the agreement we made today. But it is often the failure of the whole society, and such things happen between us. And when we say that we have to give an integral response to this problem, not only to pull the trigger when there's a victim, but to prevent it from re-entering a attack like this or a victim. And that's why the answer must be integral. It has been mentioned here that education is extremely important. We see several polls, and it shows, in fact, where people come from. he sees or places his interest in this matter. And I believe it concerns all of us, and, above all, the importance of this subject, and especially the anguish of it, that we are properly introduced into society, and that these consciousnesss really lead us to a real change. In the original proposition, you introduced the lists around telematic or electronic measures, but it is true that we have obtained a much wider agreement. In December I think it was: Mr. Arzuga, your congressman, asked him a question, after the occurrence of Ziorza Linares, the head physician of Security, the pulsation of this pheasant, the bracelet, the ring. I think the answer was clear: I shall not repeat it, and I believe that what he received in his answer, even today, is in some measure contained in our medium: the judge decides when to be put to the victim, or even to the aggressor, that pulse. It's the responsibility of the Spanish Ministry. It is true that they don't function well, and even the borderers say that the problem of this evil function often falls upon them. And when the border had also made a demonstration in the Senate, he said that it was really necessary to give a solution, and that these pulses should be improved. And even in this opposition treaty of the Common-wealth, against the Matxist Violence, it is received as a measure, that it is necessary to re-establish it, because these systems do not really work well; and the Justice of Spain, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, is directly made demand. And so we, too, have received it in the middle, and I think it's right. Then he mentioned them, too, as well as those who have other tools, bordering, rape telephone, which perhaps will be replaced, because there will be an application in the smarts. The border has always said that the support of the victim is very complex, even from the police point of view, that they have very exact protocols in police houses, and that we ask him to re-examine it, but not only to the Security Department, but also to several other departments who have spoken in this matter. And that's how we got the transaction today, and that's how we're demanding it, even in the correction we proposed. Then we've agreed to other accounts. Ye who have spoken before me have spoken these words: Coordinatement, coordination of organizations, yes. The second agreement between the organizations, the agreement made for the protection of women who have suffered violence, is already involved in all the commercial institutions, even the Council of Judicial power, the prosecutors, the local corporations, the diputations, the various departments of the New Year... Then, too, the same women who have suffered violence and even the feminists of associations. We have also received this also because it is necessary to receive the opinion of the women who have lived on their skin, and to receive the opinions and contributions of those who have learned it every day, and have received it in the middle. There's coordination. Do you think we should get better? Well, yeah. Like everything, right? We must go on every day, and certainly not on this subject. Then it has been mentioned also that in the case of the bracelet, the establishment of the victim produces this recalctization, that perhaps there must be a change of legislation to do things differently, that it ought to take more cases, to measure the risk... Last weekend, I thought it was, I read a conversation with Judge María Victoria Cinto that was after the event in the past week. And he mentioned, too, how difficult the rating of danger was when it was time to decide whether such a measure should be placed for a judge or not. And he himself confessed that even the judicial system had not been invented in this case. He asked for changes, perhaps the aid of clyminologists in the courtrooms on guard-rooms, and in courts known to the profundity of the genus. Well, there can be a lot of things to do, and even those who care in different quarters make up their proposals. I agree, too. Even according to my professional experience, it is best to carry the same lawyers along the different methods a woman can have: There's no point in making a complaint and having a lawyer and a new case. I believe it is proper, too, to make an agreement with the lawyers and attorneys, and in these cases to be the same advocate for the defense, as for the sake of that woman, and I believe that the work of this professional is better. Then we've discussed a lot of things. I don't think we've always asked for co-ordination on this subject, a partnership between the others, and I wouldn't understand that these groups of this Chamber should not agree on this subject, and that we should always ask the others for a concert and not make a treaty. I believe that the agreement which has hitherto been made is a complement of what has been made, that things must always be improved, resurrect the protocols, and I think it is our duty to face this serious problem, and from now on, if we can bring this matter back to this tribe again, we shall gradually advance by degrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The next round of teams that have no corrections, representatives of the Basque Potula Group, is Mrs. Llanos's word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, we had not tabled an amendment. And we had not presented it because, despite being a lawyer, Mrs Goirizelaia, and who have accused us of having words, today I have to tell you that the initiative did not have words. He asked for concrete and definite things. We agreed with her, because she was also starting from an appearance in the committee and we agreed with what was proposed there. Talking to the last one in the rostrum supposes that almost everything is said. But I would like to say some data; because, although it is true that data may sometimes seem cold, behind that data always, in this case, there is a woman, a minor or a minor whose life has been truncated by this lac that seems to have no end. Thus, since 2003-2013 in the case of minors, which is when data were collected on victims of male violence, 943 women and children have been killed. In 2017, there were 52 cases of murders of women and eight of minors. As of 2018, 38 women have been victims of macho violence throughout Spain. In 2017, the courts received 166,620 complaints, 16% more than the previous year, and in relation to protection orders, 441,106 were applied for, 1.44 % more than the previous year, and 68 % were granted. In Euskadi, two women were murdered by their partners in 2017, and last week, unfortunately, we started this full-fledged conviction of Magette's murder. In relation to the complaints, there were 5,192, 8% more than in the previous year and 2017, with an increase, pardon, of 8.3% in 2017, compared to 2016, and the protection orders issued in the Basque courts increased almost 9%, 8.98 %, with a total of 5,195 in 2017. In the case of the last victim, as has been said here, of Maguette, she had requested a restraining order that was denied to her. It was acknowledged by Justice, by Mr Ibarra, that justice had failed. And recognition is good, recognition that it has failed is essential for action to be taken to change those failures, to prevent it from happening again, and that happens, fundamentally. – as has been said here – for prevention, for the implementation of preventive measures and for education mainly. And it also goes on to denounce, because what needs to be made clear is that the complaint is necessary, that it is still necessary for it to come to light, that it is known, because what are the reasons that can lead a woman not to denounce? Fear, economic dependence and lack of self-esteem are often at the forefront of these reasons. And also that it is felt that when a complaint is made, what is undertaken is a calvary, rather than a release from a situation of abuse, and this is what cannot happen, what in no way can happen, which is that, when a woman decides to report, she finds that she is not given sufficient guarantees. It is therefore necessary to take action, as the initiative said, which does take what Ziortza Linares told us here in the Committee on Labour and Justice, which was that she said that she would not have started the whole procedure, if she had known beforehand the whole process, the whole calvary... The one I had to go through. And that statement, to say that if I knew all that, I wouldn't have reported it, that's a failure. That is a failure of the system; it is a failure of all, because all, institutions, professionals, associations, media... We urge women not to be silent, to break the silence, to denounce, and we must continue to do so. Again I insist that it is essential, that the complaint is very important, but it is hard to hear the words of a woman who lived the calvary that Ziortza was living, and to hear her say what I said before: that if she had known the way to go, she would not have denounced and that this would have meant that she continued in this situation of ill-treatment. Nor is it a question of sharing blame, of seeing who has failed most, of who is responsible, because I believe, as I said before, that it is a failure of all, that it is a failure of the system, that, therefore, among all, among all the institutions, among all the agents... we have to put the means to avoid situations of abuse and to ensure that, in the event that they occur, the action is integral from the first moment, that the person who denounces is felt cared for, protected and accompanied, from the first moment. A number of measures were set out in the initiative, with which we agreed, with regard to the receipt of complaints, with regard to social services, coordination between the various institutions, and also with regard to precautionary measures, which is one of the issues that came out here, and which drew attention to us at the hearing. It is important to take such measures; it is important to assess the risk for the proper imposition of that measure and, to some extent, it is already considering some of these measures to put them at risk as means rather than at high risk. And the imposition of measures is important and the monitoring of compliance with those measures and the immediate reaction to any non-compliance with them is important, because I will give only one data; but, according to the last report of the Gender Observatory of the General Council of the Judiciary, during 2017, there were about 15,500 violations of measures. Because it is known that breaking rates are high in cases of ill-treatment, but there is no record, and I think that should also be something to consider. And one of the issues that came out here is the failure of the means of telematic control, which Ziortza Linares referred to us, but that there have also been other references of those failures, not only in Euskadi but also outside Euskadi, which is that sometimes they often and do not always pity for the existence of a real irrigation; they can sting because they do not recharge, because there is no coverage at that time, for multiple reasons. And these continuous beatings cause the victims to end up under stress and, in many cases, lead them to reject the system. And so, one of the issues that arises is that these shortcomings should be corrected. In this regard, I have to say that the control centre for telematic remoteness measures, the so-called Comet, is going to renew all the devices, as required by the Government's paper and, after that renewal, the equipment that was obsolete and that were operating with 2G technology will be replaced by other 3Gs, although it is also true that many of the people involved in this protection already say that this system is probably not perfect in all its elements either. It is also proposed that, in addition to these control measures which the victim often carries, it be the aggressor, and it has also been said here, that he must bear these measures, and not the victims. And that, to do so, it is also necessary to make a number of legal changes. We absolutely agree with the issues: whether it is the aggressors, as I said, who ultimately have to bear these measures and not the victim who is the victim of a second victimization, and whether legislative amendments are necessary. We also agreed with what was referred to in the first and third points in that initiative, on that comprehensive attention and on those cross-cutting coordination tables between the Basque Government, parliaments and municipalities, so that such attention, as I say, would take place from the very beginning. It is requested that a single appointment be made for all proceedings by the bar associations and prosecutors. I think it's been tried once. I think it is complicated; but, well, in any case, it is good that you feel from the Basque Government with the colleges of lawyers and prosecutors and, to the extent that this is feasible and can be done, if you try. In conclusion, I will say that we agreed with the original initiative, and that an amendment has finally been reached through a consensus and we will support that compromise amendment, because consensus on this issue is important. Perhaps one in which the most important is and which, as has been said here, is generally achieved. And a consensus was also reached between the previous government and the autonomous communities and local authorities, which signed the State Pact against Gender Violence, whose goal was precisely that: that women and their children be protected at all times, even since their leading physician identified the slightest sign of abuse. Among the 213 measures established there were the development of protocols for early detection in the field of health, teacher training and improvement of protocols for action between courts and administrations. And there were 26 concrete measures, which, due to lack of time, I am not going to say, for this 2018, that some of those measures have precisely been implemented; others are going to be implemented, and they go in the direction of the original proposal and the transaction that has finally been reached. As has been said here: steps are taken; it is true that all the institutions are involved, that all the agents are involved, the associations, but that much remains to be done and that we hope that initiatives like today, in which we will all reach agreement, will be one more granite, one more step... to try, as I say, that situations like the one we had to condemn here in the plenary last week will not happen again. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u78	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the half-direction signed by the Podemos and the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u79	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting until 1:30 p.m. It was eight o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at thirty-one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u80	Good afternoon. We'll start the whole meeting again. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, introduced together by Jule Bollain Urbieta, a member of the Podemos, as to the preparation for workers. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Bollain, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u81	Good afternoon, everyone, after lunch. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, Mr. President. Well, it's a shame that there aren't many people, but it's a pity the chief of the Artola generouss isn't here, but, well, we'll start. Self-schools giving Spanish class, self-schools giving training on cleaning, self-schools training on store management... And meanwhile, those who really do do these formations, the EPAs, public centers, are empty. Private self-schools are subsidized for language classes and, while public adult education centres are empty. The question is why. And this is the reality of job training in Euskadi. And, no, this isn't a joke. It is part of the picture in the job training in Euskadi, which this government talks about so much but takes so little care of. And she takes so little care that Mrs Artolazabal herself acknowledged that there is neither transparency nor control over employment training from Lanbide. And we are talking about this government subsidizing training institutions to deliver courses, but they do not require the institutions to justify the costs of these training actions. Once again, public money that is not subject to any control. And that's what Mrs. Artolazabal literally recognized in the interpellation we made: public money in subsidies without control. This is very serious, because it is not your responsibility for this Government to monitor the public funds it employs for employment training. Why, I'd ask Mrs. Artolazabal. And I will tell you this: because training for employment has become a business, a business for the enrichment of a few; to be more accurate, a business where the training staff and users are the ones who suffer the consequences. And what about the trainers and the trainers for the job? What is the situation of these people? Despair and invisibility. The collective of trainers has no recognition on the part of the Basque Government, because for this government that collective neither exists nor is interested in it, it is not going to be that this business will be disturbed as well. And although Mrs Artolazabal told us that she was aware of the importance of the quality that the training staff has in relation to the quality of the training provided, almost half a year after the inquiry, you and your Government have not taken any concrete steps to curb this discontrol. Because, Mrs Artolazabal, you cannot say that you, your department and your government have not had time to take letters on this matter. You cannot say that it has not been possible for the Basque Government to take the initiative on this issue. Before summer we asked you about this issue. He's had time to do it: almost six months. Six months since we heard you recognize this miscontrol, six months without news from your department, without measures, six months you've let go. The words are carried away by the wind and the paper endures everything, but if the time of truth is not passed to action, the good words are of no use, Mrs Artolazabal. And in the face of the inoperation and inaction of this Government, we have had to present this motion, in which we urge the Basque Government, once and for all, to act through the recognition of the collective of trainers for employment and to try to offer them solutions. It is time to regulate the situation of those who train for employment, because these people deserve that recognition that is denied them day after day; because this non-recognition is responsible for the fact that the trainers and the trainers for employment are not in a decent employment situation; because this non-recognition is responsible for that waste of public money, and because this non-recognition is responsible for the possible existence of that client network that is so much talked about. And we have made an effort, incorporating in our compromise proposal sent to the groups the different opinions of this House – sent last Friday – and we have done so because we are aware of the need to broaden as much as possible this agreement, necessary and fair, to offer worthy conditions to this collective of trainers for employment. And yet we have found ourselves, on the part of the parties that support the Government, a wall. A real wall, with no will whatsoever to try to reach an agreement. Why, Mrs. Arregi? Perhaps you, as the lady of perpetual inaction, are aware of the importance of those who train for employment, but, at the time of truth, nothing at all. Look, because this isn't a joke either. In the compromise amendment finally signed with Euskal Herria Bildu, we have incorporated that of the PNV and that of the PSE in its entirety; I repeat, in its entirety. PNV response: we don't see it. And today, in the absence of two hours for the point, and seeing another defeat coming for the government, trying to reach agreements, while emptying the points of the negotiated amendment. Mrs Arregi, why did you amend our motion if you have not made any attempt to reach an agreement? You were clear, from the beginning, your negative vote to dignify the conditions of the group of trainers for employment. Whatever happened, his vote was going to be no. Well, don't give him any more laps, and make it clear. They care about the precariousness and non-recognition of trainers for employment. And today it is reaffirming, I think, for the third consecutive point, that within its auzolana But in the face of your inaction and in the face of your inoperation, it is Elkarrekin We can put this injustice and this discontrol back on the table, and we do it with solutions and with a view to a near future, solutions that will initially count on the support of Euskal Herria Bildu and the People's Party, to which I thank you for your willingness to agree from the beginning. Because today we are taking the first step to change this, in the face of the refusal, once again, of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. And today, once this government has again lost a vote in this Parliament, its government has to be honest and say whether it is going to comply with this mandate, which is done by the majority of citizens' representatives, or not. Let's get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Madame Kortha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u83	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, good afternoon to all of you. Well, it's one of those things that touch different branches today, because when we're talking about working, we're talking about the organization of people who are working, and we're just talking about how they're going to offer their cooperation. We're talking about the form that leads to people who are in a state of unemployment, and then they're all the forms of formation that the fun keeps behind, aren't they? The preparation for employment is a very different preparation, and the agents in it are different; There are public agents and there are private agents. And in them the conditions of professionals are very different, and in others the conditions of professionals. The subject, therefore, has its complexity and importance, and is complex and careful, and also because it is a great public money, directed to these actions, because it is very great. And, of course, it's important because the subject has the power, besides that which we all accept. "The actions of the public profession are of the most important services that can be offered to promote their fertility to those who are unemployed. In fact, they serve to improve the classification of the labourers for a particular profession, and the knowledge of a certain profession is suitable to study them, and they are useful in acquiring indirect tools and capacities which may be used in different economics and sectors." This is, for example, in terms of the preparation for the sub-saving system of employment education, which is referred to in the calling of preparation for the benefit of those who are first engaged in unemployment. "Professional training for employment is one of the instruments which make a decisive contribution to the integration of workers into the labour market and to improving the employability of workers". This is reflected in the decree ordering vocational training for employment in Euskadi. "Continuing training is a priority strategic value in the processes of technological, economic and social change. And that is why it is an essential instrument for employment stability and social cohesion." That's what the Hobetuz page says, for example. Stratic, important, crucial. I dare say we all share the importance of preparation, and it is the same importance that makes things necessary. And it must be admitted that there is much to improve in respect to the formation of the work. There are a lot of improvements, and we could talk a long time about the business formation, and we'll probably have a chance, no doubt, because, as I said before, it's a matter of very great importance, because it has a terrible capacity, and it's really a strategic capacity. But today it is time to speak of professionals who act in this formation. And we, with our corrections, wanted to focus on it, because among all these elements so wide and so important, it is a reality that remains hidden. And we were afraid to spread too much focus again, to be dislocated and vanished. And that's why we focused a little on the state of preparations, the origin of the initiative, that is, the origin of the origin, the intention of the initiative. In this sense, logic leads us to think that, taking into account the importance given to it and that we all recognize it to training for employment, we would all aspire to have a body of high-quality trainers, with solid preparation in teaching skills, a body of professionally recognized professionals and able to offer learning results to people who access the training processes. And there are the European recommendations and studies in this area, which also recommend the existence of a new professional profile. However, the reality is that training in the Basque Autonomous Community hides many realities; it hides many realities, but one of them is that of the professionals who are engaged in training for employment, and that of the precariousness of their working conditions. The professionals who work in these works exercise their work under severe conditions of work, some at least. We think it's very important to take care of these professionals who told us about different forums. And Mr. Bollain has mentioned a few instances, and I will not stay long. But it is true that forms can hardly live except in this form. It is very difficult to have a fixed employment, for instance, in the formation. A lot of people who don't hire a lot of people, and many of them, in the organization of lectures, planning, preparing materials, report, and activity memory. And often they are hired only for the hours during which the courses last. Sometimes they hire long-distance professionals as a monitor. And, well, we could also talk about the salary or money that these professionals give us. I think it is a reality to take into account what these professionals in Vocational Training are talking about. Much to be taken into account, because it is truly a strategic sector. Maybe a part, at least a part. –I'm sure it has other edges, but at least a part of this problem – it originates, from our point of view, in the conditions under which the calls for proposals that mark the work of these professionals come out. For example, the 2017 Hobetuz call came out, approximately, in May. The interim resolution came in July, and the final one in October. Many formative actions were launched in this framework in November and ended on 30 June, which was just when we were going to discuss this issue. This year's one is dated June 27. It was published exactly on 5 July, with a correction of errors a few days later. But, well, more or less, when do we figure it'll work out? About October or something, right? With this, we are a little in the same situation as last year, in which we lose about three or four months of opportunity to give that training and that leaves us with calls of seven or eight months. To this we could also add what is currently being paid for these modules, which is also different, as it is logical, right?, if the training is aimed at obtaining certificates of professionalism or not, but what is being paid for at this time is also paid for by modules, by student, and the amounts are not too buoyant either. So, under these conditions, it is difficult for many of those training agents to keep positions fixed for those who provide this training.How can these people be made to have stable jobs? It is the calls themselves that force us to opt for flexibility in recruitment. This in Hobetuz, but the situation is very similar in the case of training actions for unemployed people, and we could break it down, but the situation would be the same, right? And in this it has much to say Lanbide; it is true that responsibility is shared, because it touches many areas as we had said initially, training for employment, but it is true that Lanbide has very important functions assigned in this regard: He takes upon himself the management of his employment for employment, directed to those who are at work in idleness, including the consent and discretion of the appeals which might be accompanied by money, which are equally taken. As to the formation directed to those who work, they are organized by the improvements, but they have also a direct connection and a strict connection with the profession. But, above all, the supervision and control of training actions also largely corresponds to Lanbide. Lanbide is also responsible for certifying those professionals who meet the requirements and then being able to carry out the approvals. But there seems to be a void with what happens next. That is why, for us, the initiative that arises today in the face of this situation, in the face of what is being transferred to us by the professionals who are dedicated to this and in the face of this situation that you yourself were commenting on, is very important what was being raised today, which is nothing more than an in-depth analysis of what is going on, what is happening with these calls, in what context these people are developing that training, those training activities, under what conditions they are contracted... Well, all that package we were marking at the first point, let the necessary actions be put on that path so that those situations that directly influence the quality of the training being offered, because that is undeniable, can be corrected. And from there, we can go further, well, following those recommendations that we make from Europe, to create this new body of professionals who can devote themselves to it and who can also serve as recognition for a task that is being developed, that we are all recognizing that it is strategic, and that it is of vital importance in all the processes of access to employment, social cohesion, the maintenance of quality employment and all these elements. That is why we are going to support the compromise, as Mr Bollain rightly said, because it seems to us that it is an issue to be analysed: that knowing that there is a situation that at least is not desirable, even if it is not possible to speak to the best of irregularities, it is an undesirable situation, that any government that claims that the training it offers is of quality can be accepting that this type of situation is taking place within the framework of the actions it organizes, because it has to face up to this analysis, has to see what is going on, analyzing what solutions can be established and, above all, good, because to see what place, what...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u84	Go and finish it. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u85	... these people can be given so that their work is recognized and, in addition, the conditions under which they perform such work can be of dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u87	Good afternoon. Well, today, in the fifth item on the agenda, we are dealing with the questionable motion which, five months ago, Julen, on behalf of Elkarrekin Podemos, registered in this Parliament. Everything has its times of processing; not only the grant calls. The proposal is justified by the union of two concepts: that of quality employment and training for quality employment, right?, something that the Socialists, of course, share without any doubt. We share the objective, as we have said on many occasions, of creating jobs, but not any jobs, of quality jobs, and we will not tire of repeating it. And, to that end, the Basque Government – and I have said this more often in this rostrum – has, as you all know, incorporated strategic lines aimed precisely at this. This aspect, to bet on the creation of a quality job, is the one that distinguishes the current Strategic Employment Plan from other previous plans. Therefore, I think we have a shared starting point, on the basis of which, I would dare say, we could have reached an agreement. It is also true that to compromise and to reach agreements, not in any way, because the important thing is not to reach an agreement not to lose a vote, which seems to be what worries you... I am interested in reaching agreements with a true, real, effective and logical content, not simply because of the fact of losing a vote or not; don't worry, that in that we will not have problems because we will see a lot of demagogy and a lot of business from here on out. However, to conclude that the current job trainers, those who currently perform these tasks, are not accredited or recognized, I cannot share it. And I tell you this based on the written response that your group, the proposing group, received from the Department of Employment and Social Policy last March. It was informed that there are currently some 6,481 persons authorized to provide vocational training for employment in Euskadi. And the socialists – and I hope you too – we trust that all these people are professionals, good professionals, who meet the legally established conditions to be able to provide training for employment and who do so from the professionalism they have accredited, with commitment, with quality and with the aim of effectively training the unemployed and workers. The conditions that these professionals must meet – and you know it – are properly regulated through either real decrees or in training programs, depending, logically, on whether we talk about training to obtain certificates of professionalism or not. Therefore, we cannot conclude that the requirements that these professionals must meet for them to be trainers are not regulated. Moreover – and you know it – not a year ago that the Government of Spain developed through Royal Decree 694/2017 the Law 30/2015, which regulates the system for vocational training for employment in the field of employment. It lays down the conditions for guaranteeing the right to training of women workers, and regulates aspects such as the calculation of the cost of training which incorporates within it the cost of teaching staff. Now, you don't set any amounts, and why? For, surely, because the setting of working conditions, such as wages or working hours among others, is not the responsibility of the Government of the nation, the Congress of Deputies or this Parliament, but is a matter reserved by law for collective bargaining between the social partners. I imagine they respect this because they told us from their bench on other occasions. And that they do not intend to replace, through parliamentary initiatives, the functions that these agents must and must perform. Surely not. For this reason, I am surprised that, being one of the sectors that currently has an existing sectoral agreement, at least at the state level, which regulates the working conditions that must be met by companies that hire trainers or teachers of unregulated training, it is requested by the groups that the Department of Employment and Social Policy of the Basque Government regulate the situation of the collective, in order to ensure that they have decent working conditions. Well, this is where you started on your initiative – because, of course, then the transactional is deriving where it's coming from, isn't it? – when your working conditions, those affecting this collective, have already been agreed between the workers' representatives and the employer in the sector. Because I don't want to deduce from your proposal. – and you will make it clear to me – that you consider the conditions that have been agreed by the unions to be unworthy – because you have used it now in your first shift, you consider them to be unworthy conditions – that you have made the maximum annual working time of 1,446 hours or that your salary structure according to the basic salary of 14,243 euros per year for the category of teacher, or that the additions of dedication or professional development and training or other matters that are regulated in the agreement, as they are not worthy. Another thing – and there I can be with you – is that if these conditions are not being met by companies, all existing mechanisms for their control and demand will be activated. But not only in this sector, in this and any other sector in which we find ourselves. We have not come to understand the objective of generating a professional body, nor what exactly is proposed under this name, since at present, to be accredited as a trainer, various qualifications are regulated that can be accredited for training, depending on the training family in question, and which establishes a minimum of experience also according to the various certificates, modules or training units. On the way the various groups are going, Mr Bollain, so that we can reach broad agreements and support proposals, because we have not had the success that we would all have hoped for, have we not? We could share with you the realization of a general diagnosis of the situation of training for employment, but they have been obsessed that within that diagnosis the working conditions had to be inserted, and we did not share that. We could share that realization of the diagnosis, because it is true that having a report that gives us elements of judgment aimed essentially at evaluating the training that is now being given for employment and its results in relation to that improvement that we are supposedly concerned about, of capacity for employment and to obtain it, for us it was also an important instrument, but we did not think that it should be focused on issues of working conditions that do not fall to us either Parliament or the Government. In that generic wording, you didn't want to enter and, therefore, we haven't been able to be either, have we? The regulation of working conditions, we think it had a very difficult fit. But the amendment that we have jointly tabled with the Nationalist Group proposes that, within the foresight and in the need to adapt the training needed to the new demands that are generated in the market, this diagnosis should be updated annually and that a quality assessment should be carried out, because if we are really concerned, as Mrs Kortajarena has also said, the issue of how our system is, that is, how our system is, what quality it has, because we evaluate that quality and check the scrupulous compliance by the training companies with the legal requirements established, both as regards the training of trainers and the working conditions that are laid down in the convention that is applicable. I sincerely believed – our group sincerely believed – that it was possible to reach an agreement. We believe that diagnosis is necessary and we believe that evaluation is necessary, but at the moment there has been no luck in reaching that agreement. Either way, we'll keep trying.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. We have the result of an interpology on laborers, introduced by Monsieur Jule Bollain, the representative of Podemos together. As a matter of fact, I'm not quite clear what you're trying to accomplish with this motion. Different requests are made, as well as the Department of Parliament and Society, and other departments. In our humble opinion, totum revolutum. "In view of the fact that we are in the middle of a debate on the proposal for a law on vocational training in the Basque Country and the reform of Lanbide, we have formulated the following question." Hori zen aunt. And the question asked the counsellor was how the Basque Government would ensure the quality of training for employment, through a body of accredited, structured and recognized trainers. I don't understand what it meant by interpelation, when both of them were in the hands of the legislature. The Law of Education received it in June. In the course of the law, which was proposed to you, you pointed out your concern, but you did not receive it by correcting it. Plus, a little detail, too. One thing is the law regulating vocational training, recently adopted by this House, and another, very different, the State Law 30/2015, which is the law regulating the system of vocational training for employment in the workplace, which has been developed in 2017, as Mrs Castelo explained. In view of the change of government in the State, perhaps his colleagues in the Congress of Deputies could present some initiative in this regard, in order to achieve what they are proposing in the competent sphere. On the other hand, the reform project of the profession was introduced by M. M.M., and when it's plino monographic, you'll have time to introduce your ideas as a solution and get the protection of the other teams, even though we know that we don't think it's that way. In addition to this justification, to which, frankly, we do not see too much sense for what has been said, Mr Bollain's speech in the defence of his motion focused, for the most part – and this has also been the case today – on the working conditions of the training staff. And Mrs Castello has also explained to you that, of course, this Parliament is not competent to establish the working conditions of any worker. We can share with the proposing group the importance of good working conditions for the trainers, as well as for the rest of the workers, but we do not believe, of course, that the way to achieve this is by presenting motions or GNP in this plenary every Thursday. It is important to make it clear to them that there are different vocational training centres for employment: public, concerted and private centres. In Euskadi, Lanbide does not have its own training centre for employment, unlike INEM, which had, for example, its day in Sestao. The network of public centres that provide training for employment in Euskadi... are all included in public institutions under the Department of Education. There are a variety of types of centres dedicated to vocational training for employment. As stated in Law 30/2015, which regulates the Vocational Training System for Employment: "Training can be provided by wage-earners and self-employed persons who provide services to the centres themselves, by requiring teachers with a high level of specialization", which, in our view, makes it impossible to speak of a single category and unique working conditions for this very diverse and different group. In addition, the working conditions of women workers have their specific scope to be treated, as you well know, within collective bargaining. It is in the hands of the representation of workers, trade unions and the business side to sit down, negotiate and agree to obtain the best working conditions for workers, each within their sector or scope of work, or within their professional category: there are centres governed by the convention of offices and offices, others by the convention of the ikastolas, others by the public of administration or by that of entities of the third sector. As I said, the situation is very different. So we don't see the meaning of what you're asking for at the second point of the motion, where you're asking the collective to regulate the theme for you to have worthy conditions of work. On the other hand, the 30/2015 Law, which regulates the Professional Education of the Lantal World, is the Law of the Common-wealth; do not confound the profession which is regulated by the Education of Education. The law of the state which regulates the subject combines measures which tend to improve the legislature of persons, as Madame Cortha herself has shown, especially in order to increase the chances of grafting the unemployed into the trade. This law seeks also to adapt the workers and corporations to the needs that are still compertive. We can't even forget that the law is a fundamental law. The basic obligations are laid down in such state legislation, which is also consistent – and as it could not otherwise be – with European legislation. It is important to be meridianly clear that training for employment is regulated. The requirements or qualifications necessary to provide training for employment are regulated by such State and basic legislation. We have no competence in Euskadi to regulate them. The quality of the vocational training system for employment is ensured by means of the following instruments, which were already presented to them in the reply to the inquiry by Mrs Artolazabal, who are indeed within the competence of the Government: Registration of training institutions: it is mandatory for any training institution wishing to access the grants to be registered in advance of the calls in this register; in this way it is ensured that all entities, whose social purpose is training, meet a number of requirements, in terms of facilities, equipment and human resources, marked in the technical specifications of the catalogue of training specialties. Compliance analysis is carried out through the documentary review and personal verification visits of the centres. In addition, the registration is supplemented by a catalogue of training specialties, the purpose of which is to ensure that the training associated with each specialty is homogeneous, guaranteeing quality standards that allow persons who are trained in Lanbide to be entitled to a degree or, in the case of training associated with a registered specialty, a diploma, as also explained by Mrs Castello. It also determines the hours of training to be given by a formative action, which is important for teaching and the award of grants. Lanbide's verification to discharge a training specialty or reform existing ones is related to ensuring that they have meaning for the labour market in terms of employability and are therefore necessary for the qualification of workers. As regards the file of teachers, any centre that wishes to provide vocational training for the job must hire or have a staff of teachers who meet the qualifications or professional experience required in the technical specifications described in the training specialties. They're both allowed. There is also a competition register, including that of certificates of professionality. The vocational training system for employment has a second instrument which affects its quality: the prospecting and detention of training needs. Annually, a situation diagnosis is made, which is agreed and agreed with the social, employers and trade unions involved in the Lanbide council, through a prospective analysis methodology of the labour market, and a diagnosis of training needs that determine the prioritization of the training specialties to be programmed in the year, as a way to achieve the employability of people. This is a joint work of the Basque Labour Market Observatory and the training service. Finally, with regard to working conditions, if there were any complaints from the trainers, or if there were any infringements in the visits made by the technicians in Lanbide to the training centres for employment, they were brought to the attention of the labour inspectorate, the competent authority to deal with them. So, you know, "Muponk" means the basic state legislation, and the diagnosis is made every year, to adapt the formation to the needs of the market. I must repeat, at the end of it, that we have not understood the purpose of the motion. Because we have no right to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, members of the House, good afternoon to you all. Mr Bollain has put a debate on employment training courses on the table. I believe that, within the House, we all have the idea, when we hear about these job training courses, in those classes, in those programs, in those courses... generously financed from the public administration, because the need is great, and that they are imparted to those who want to acquire their first job or those who have already lost their job or want to find another, or curiously, to a group of people who want to improve in the job they have. Some for the pure natural, very human desire to improve their living conditions, and others because they are suffering from precarious conditions in their employment at the time. They suffer from precarious employment, something we have talked about so much recently in this House. And curiously, those who teach them these courses are in the same precarious conditions as those who receive them. That is what I have heard from the first four speeches in the House, and that is what Mr Bollain made clear in the presentation of the initiative; that is what Mrs Kortajarena also made clear in her amendment, and that is what the groups that support or support the Government have made clear in the first of the amendments that have brought us. Because they ask you to look at it, to look at it... if the current labour legislation is effectively complied with. That is, if it is not done, it is because the work is being carried out in conditions of extreme precariousness. Therefore, we have a problem on the table; we have a very serious problem. And in the face of this problem, different solutions are presented by the groups. We have not amended, because we understood that the initial proposal of the Elkarrekin Podemos group was the correct one: It is necessary to draw up a report, it is necessary to know what is really happening in these training centres. It is a very broad amalgamation, and it has already been said here that there are private centres, there are public centres, and that, in fact, some are subject to collective agreements, others are subject to others, others are not subject to anything, others are autonomous and their conditions are very different. But the logical and normal thing is that if the problem is on the table and is recognised by all the groups in this House, a solution will have to be sought. And the solution must go beyond mere compliance with existing labour legislation or with the conditions for group approval, which is what the groups supporting the Government have proposed in their first amendment. We agree that this diagnosis, that analysis, that report... within as short a time as possible. I believe that we are very generous and it seems to you that the Counsellor is well advised to do so within a year and we will deal with it to you, logically; it is the Department of Employment and I understand that this is where most of that public money comes from for these subsidies. those courses and that it must be you who control it. Because it also has in its hands an instrument that I think is very important. I already know that Lanbide is in the midst of reform and restructuring, but Lanbide is precisely an instrument that can help you to do, to elaborate... that diagnosis and become a useful tool again; not what it is now, at this time, that it is a hot potato that has fallen into it within the Department. Maybe it will be again, because when Lanbide was created, it was useful and it served to put a lot of people. It may now also serve as an intermediary in many contracts or to study for the Government, to see the real needs of the sector and to be able to use that data. That is the first point of the diagnosis that we ask, that this diagnosis goes far. It is true – and you will agree with me, Madam Counsellor – that the problem of the working conditions of trainers is not the main problem, possibly, of job training courses. But that is the origin of this initiative and we will have time to discuss, when we talk about Lanbide and talk about these subjects again later, what are other problems and what is the diagnosis or what is the point of view that the different groups have. But, at the moment, we are talking about these working conditions, fundamentally, but since the study is being done, you can also try to expand a little bit more and see what the needs of the students are, see how quality these services are being provided, see, logically, that the law is being complied with. It is important in the area of labour legislation, that they be discharged into social security, that they be on the days that correspond, on the hours that the classes actually give, that they cover for what they are working for, and not for what they are offered in these companies under very precarious conditions – in some, not in all, but on some occasions–. We are in charge of you and, logically, also of the Department of Education, since public employment centres depend on your department. It is true that we could also entrust it to the absent Labour Counsellor, but we better leave it in their hands so that, in fact, we can achieve a more agile and faster goal by using that job that is Lanbide. And I was talking to you about what an employment training course was, in the opinion of what was heard this afternoon in this House, because if you go out on the street and talk and ask people about job training courses, the result is appalling. Most people say they're absolutely useless. A lot of people. Students who have been there, some have good opinions, few expectations, have not been interesting enough for relocation or for the search for the first job, and if you talk to the trainers, we encounter even more serious problems. Apart from the staffing problems they have with the companies on which they depend – which are very large –, apart from that, you encounter another problem and it is that people attend these courses because of the mere fact of attending, which in the end means that the trainers are unable to carry out the work for which they have been hired, because people have no interest or some of those students have no interest, and this makes it impossible to achieve the ends for which these courses have been designed and well endowed by the public arks. That is why we are going to support the agreement by Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu, because we understand that there are many problems between these training courses for employment and that a possible solution is this one that they have reached in the agreement. And we wondered, and for the time being I did not get the answer, why the groups that support the government, seeing that there is a serious problem and that really, they have left it to you, counselor, in very bad place, when they tell you that what you have to do is to check that the approval centres meet the requirements for which they were approved – I thought that was already done. Well, because the groups that support his Government have said in the amendment that we have to check it, and, if anyone asks for it to be checked, it is information from the groups that support the Government. "It's supposed to be inside information," they'll think it's not checked. I therefore urge you to do so before the report is drawn up, and since you are asking that labour legislation be complied with in companies receiving public subsidies, and that the groups supporting the Government do so, it seems to me to be sufficiently serious. Or you improve the conditions of communication with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group to see what they write in the amendments or you really have a problem because you are handing over public money to someone who does not meet the conditions of the subsidies. And that, in addition to a problem for training courses and for those attending such training courses, would be a very serious problem for you and your Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. As soon as you answer it, Mr. Bollain is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u93	Thank you again, Mr. President. Taking back the thread of Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, which referred to point five of the compromise that we have reached and within the amendment made by Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, Mrs Arregi also said that the diagnosis of training needs is updated annually; then, I do not understand why they also put this point into the amendment when it is already being implemented, do they? It's quite paradoxical in this sense. I have been told that it is not appropriate to deal with certain matters of working conditions in this House and that they do not make sense to it. Look, SEPE says textually in an answer to a question we asked: "The determination of the functions and fees of trainers in the different autonomous communities is the responsibility of the competent labour authority in each of them, and it is up to the State Public Employment Service to set a maximum for each training specialty, referring this amount to the full course and not only to the salaries of trainers." We therefore see how these issues deserve to be dealt with in this House, and solutions can be achieved from this House. Mrs Arregi told me that they were not clear what we wanted, that they were not clear what we wanted; therefore, I do not understand that counteroffer of transaction that they sent us, when it captures the whole transaction with which we have reached an agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu and with the support of the People's Party, only by emptying the first point of it. So, I don't know why if they're not clear what we're asking for, they're sending us that same transaction, just emptying the first point. You also have to see if you were clear what you wanted when you amended our first motion, because I see no sense in that amendment when your refusal from the beginning has been blunt. And then Mrs. Castelo said – I'm sorry, Mrs. Castelo, let's...–; you said that you shared the goal, didn't you?, that you shared the goal. It turns out that in 90% of the interventions that you and I have together, you share the objective of the initiative, you share the objective; but with the leash that you have from your partner in government, we never agree. What a coincidence that they are always economic issues, fiscal issues, in that sense of conditions and diagnoses for a particular group, issues on which we are reaching and have reached agreements at state level, but on which, however, in this House we can never reach agreements. Perhaps it is your government partner who fails, and it is not us, Mrs Castelo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the CORAJAY: Yes, thank you. Look, I think this is a story that, as it happens in many other matters, is that people talk about it: that they speak to some who work in these works, and to others, and make a thousand sort of cavilities to the desktop. And therefore, if we all really understand that the formation and the culture formation are merely a strategy, it is only because of the wide stages and cavilisms they are developing that they deserve this profound examination. Because you're the ones that put that in your repentance, that vision of quality. Well, this element is included during the revision of quality. There is no quality in form, if the prepareers who act in this form are not able to work and practice with quality and quality time. So it is one of the other elements of quality. And I believe that, instead of letting things grow worse or worse or otherwise, it deserves to be examined, examined, analysed, analysed, analysed, studied, and analysed, both the conditions of work and the appeals which are the foundation of these conditions, and the relations and all this. It is true that Mrs Castelo told us that it is not the competence of the governments to regulate the working conditions of the professionals or the contractual relations that these professionals, those trainers and trainers have with the entities or companies that hire them. But the framework, the framework in which these tasks are carried out to the entities and to the enterprises is decisive in order to then develop things also in conditions. And in that, this Government does have full functions. It has the capacity to regulate, monitor, efficiently establish its grant calls, for example, to establish conditions that, truly, will ensure that the development of these functions will be in line with the stated objective and that, in addition, it will allow the working conditions of persons working in these courses to be developed in appropriate conditions. Eta horretarako badu Gobernu honek nahikoa eskumen. Eta iruditzen zentzu horretan azterketa hours the Egyptian bear-ose inportantee her. Eta batzuetan horrelako egoeren aurrean eta eztabaidara eramaten denean zenbaitzuek mahai heurean jartzen ditugunean egoeren aurrean azterketa bat Egyptea –ze hori eskatzen du zera honek –hona jaistea eta estaaa dena ètaen dena arautua dagoela eta dena erregulara dagoela, étan lege hau eta marko erregulara sua esta beste marko erregulara hau, ba, niri horrek zer pentsatua emataten said. Ze, egia esan, if everything is established, if everything is very well ordered, if everything is well framed, if everyone is performing well their functions, I do not understand what is happening. But, of course, there is something that does not work, when such situations are frequent and, of course, they draw a precarious situation, which I do not think is appropriate in any relationship that the Administration can have in the performance of its functions. And, on the other hand, I heard Mr. Arbulus on one level, and I agree with what he said. But some things you've received in your repentance aren't they doing? What you're planning here is that the formation will be reviewed every year, according to the tests given by prosceptions, isn't that what you're doing? Does not this government control that the institutions which are employed in it fulfil all the obligations of working under conditions and subsension? That's one of the profession functions. The recognition of quality, the quality of these courses... Isn't this government doing it? That's what you get in your repentance. This is received in your repentance. I think it is plain, then, that there is a great deal of improvement here, and that there is a great deal of improvement in this field, and that there is a study on the table, and the analysis of the parameters which may be marked out of our practice, and that it is not to make too great a demand upon any one who does so; and that a government really aims at such a dispute, or in the other direction of any such demand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u96	I don't know what order to start, but I don't know about Mr. Bollain, do I? I agree with many of your training colleagues; then, if I had to give you an explanation, so do you also have to look at why we can't reach so many agreements. But I will remind you that, some time ago, you have even welcomed the fact that you and I have reached agreements within the areas of your competence; therefore, in the end, we must not have complexes either. We come to the agreement when we're both oriented in the same line. It happens that there are times when it's hard for us to turn around... Anyway, there are times that, of course, when you go out with ten minutes and you bring in little preparation and you have to fill the time, because you say things, right, that's what you say... Because the amendment, tabled by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group – I am going to read it because you haven't read it carefully anyway – I think that either you misinterpreted it, or we are intentionally manipulating it: The amendment says that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to update, annually, the diagnosis of training needs and to adapt the training offer to the needs identified in this regard". And I think, with this, you don't disagree. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to check the quality of the training courses provided, as well as the compliance of the centres with the requirements necessary for the implementation of the courses for which they have been approved, as well as to verify that they comply with the labour regulations in force." You're not saying there's a breach here. It is not being said that it is not being done, it is being said that this is the right direction; the Government is doing so, and Parliament believes that it has to continue doing so and that it does not have to put its guard down on it. Anyway, if that doesn't seem enough to you, then perfect, right? It's all there is. There are certain regulations that can be regulated. One thing is to regulate the framework, and I agree to make a diagnosis of the framework and so we have said, but you have wanted us to put the photo in that framework for the diagnosis. They already wanted a concrete photo and working conditions. And I will repeat to you to the point of satiety: no matter how much you want, it is not up to us to establish working conditions and you were talking about wages, working days... There is some regulation that is our responsibility, but that is already and is the competence of the State and that has it, eh? It is not possible to spend more than eight hours in training, except in exceptional cases which are marked by teletraining, etc., or because of the need of the company itself: the company has to concentrate training in occupational risk prevention within 10 hours and takes a specific course to the company. Of course, we're just thinking... Well, I don't know how many courses you have attended; but, well, sometimes that's the way it is. Therefore, I believe that what is done is done in a good direction and should continue. And the truth is, we don't have to be supervised by the government when we amend. We are parliamentary groups: we have autonomy, we have criteria, we have politics... I don't know if the others can say the same. Because, of course, it is a curious thing that before the summer some group in this House that has not amended but will support from the beginning to the transaction – and you could have fucked whatever you wanted, because you would have supported it for sure.... Because this, Elkarrekin Podemos, which has a certain persistence in his ideas, had already brought him in for the processing of the Basque Law of Vocational Training. I'd already brought it. If Mr Bollain is insisting on something that, by the way, on that date when, in the end, we were not marked by the dictates from other places or other things had happened, there was another group that did not see him and rejected his amendment. And you'll remember as I do. Well, look, today you're going to have more luck, because the stars have come together, not because they share with you on the left any of these positions, but because of the issue of falling down by falling, you're going to have a GNP that they don't believe in. And I, in that kind of deal, don't want to get in. When I enter into an agreement, it's because I trust and believe in what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u98	Yes, thank you again, Madam of the Parliament. Mr. Bollain, today I did not touch an inquiry; that has already happened – you have been referring to the councilwoman, asking her questions, to the government... Yes, yes, of the five minutes he has used in his first speech to defend his position, half have been questions to the government, which already answered him in his day–. I think... he said that what he was worried about was the working conditions of the trainers, that he believed that for quality training to take place, the working conditions of these people were important, which we shared, we told him. But, in reality, he has spent all his time messing with the government, with the inaction, with this parliamentary group, with the Socialist Party, with which if we don't go hand in hand, with which if we have to amend the plan from the government... Mrs Castelo explained this to him: I do not think so, that today there was nothing to tell, and that the fact that no agreements are reached is always two-part; it is, of course, never just one. And I... Don't worry, because Mrs Castelo has also explained it to you, nothing happens if we lose votes, when we believe that what we are defending is the right thing. I knew perfectly well what Mr Ruiz de Arbulo and the People's Party were going to do since yesterday; but when an amendment to the whole is tabled, it is usually because they do not agree with what has been tabled. An amendment is tabled as a whole because the original initiative is not shared; therefore, I do not understand what you have been trying to blame us for. It is true that I knew from yesterday and it is true that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has told me: "It would be nice to try an agreement. I think it could be." And then it was when I said, "Well, I'm going to make an effort." That I also wanted to eat quietly, not have to change the speech, huh? But I said, "I'm going to do it, because I think, if we really agree, we can try." You said no, because, in your opinion, you were distorting your initiative, when what we were taking away from you was the whole subject of relationships. Work, wages, hours, hours... that we believe that they are in no way within the competence of this Parliament. We shared the fact of the diagnosis and told him that in the third of the points the Government of the State was urged to do so, because it was the one with the competence to do so. I think an agreement is a thing of two; then, let's talk about everything as a whole. When I tell you the theme of the totum revolutum As for the issue of perpetual inaction, which I also felt, I will tell you that, in the new call for grants, Lanbide within his competences – which these are – values... It is going to give 20 out of 100 points to those entities that are going to provide training for employment, taking into account the average number of employees who are in the workforce, because, as I have read before, they could also work with self-employed workers. Another thing that will be taken into account is the number of indefinite contracts that they have or that consist of that entity, how many women have indefinite contracts, how many disabled people have in the workforce... All these things are going to be taken into account and are going to be worth 20 points over 100. Therefore, the inaction of the Government is not true, and here I demonstrate it with facts, as you usually like to say. And the subject of the diagnosis, I have already told you that we agreed; we were also contemplating it. Mrs Castelo has also made reference to the same thing, but I think it is important to say it, because I think it has not been well understood: when we were talking "We understand and so it is" that Lanbide is doing his work, and as one of the concerns that you expressed and manifested on the day of the inquiry, because of the issue of working conditions, which seemed so serious to him... For if Lanbide, when it is going to grant a grant or when it is going to commission an entity that is going to give the training for the job, checks that all are in accordance with the regulations, and it is also regulated and it is seen that the working conditions are being fulfilled, as it could not otherwise be; because, if not, they would not be able to give any subsidy to that entity. Therefore, it is not that it is not being done, but rather that it is being asked to go that way and continue to be done. And just to ask for a vote on the point, because, as you say, the last two points are our corrections, and then we'll ask you to do the vote at a point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arboulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u100	Gracias, president. It is necessary to review the schedule of plenary sessions, because in the end the first items on the agenda after eating become discussions, not debates: we do not feel very well to contrast ideas just after eating and the thing gets a little sour. And here we talk about winning or losing votes. No, that's not important, who wins or who loses the votes. The important thing is what everyone has said here: that it is necessary to make a diagnosis, that there is a problem on the table. And that is why, regardless of who votes what, or who uses one argument or another, what needs to be met is the mandate of this House, which asks you, Mrs Artolazabal, not the Education Councillor, who is not, nor the Labour Councillor, so that the issue can be done, we ask you: make that diagnosis, make that study, see what is the origin of those problems, which we all know, which we all know because it has been debated here, because we all agree and because we all go out on the street. All we have to do is talk to the citizens, to those who are attending the courses, to those who deliver the courses, and to those who have the companies that give those courses, and we know that this problem is on the table. Why didn't you want to reach that agreement today? I don't know, I don't know; I don't want to think badly, I don't like it, and since I don't like it, I'm not going down that line. I can assure you that the will of our group is to make the diagnosis, to use it. And if I... I have 3,37 left; of course, Mrs Castelo will say that, since I have not prepared the debate, I have plenty of time and I will have to invent something. I have not invented any, Mrs Castelo: I do not like to have to always end or always exhaust the times provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I have once told the President: remind parliamentarians that they are not compulsory times, that they are maximum times, and sometimes, in two minutes or three, you can say everything, what others use 15, 20, half an hour or two hours to say absolutely nothing. Please review the amendment you have tabled. And there are many other amendments that your group, and the other group that supports the Government, are presenting to a multitude of initiatives, which are always talking about continuing to do, continuing to do, improving what is already being done... And, in this case, it clearly says 'that it is done' (it is an imperative), that quality is checked, and that compliance with the regulations and the conditions of approval is verified. When I tell someone to do something, it's not to keep doing it. 'Cause then I'd say, keep it that way. If I say 'do it', it's because you're not doing it. Either the communication relations between the groups of the Government and you fail, or the Government has a problem, because that public money is not known where it is going, and that is also one of the causes for which no agreement has been reached today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the correction of Podemos and EH Teams. It's asked for points, but they don't seem to admit it, so we vote for it all. No, we don't approve of Podemos together. Well, and I didn't ask EH Collect, but if one doesn't accept... So we can vote together for the middle-term correction that Podemos and EH Collect have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u102	So, since it's equality, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u103	As equality is, we'll leave it for the next round meeting. The seventh point on the theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal Group, about the violent state of Nikacia. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Barrio, the representative of the Basque Popular, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u104	Madam President, good afternoon. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we've all seen, over the past few months, weeks, the news, the media... and we've seen the situation in Nicaragua these months. The Nicaraguan government, like other governments of its characteristics, is very bad for people to manifest themselves and to protest at the terrible situation of poverty, the situation of social deterioration... There are no more traces of democracy in Nicaragua. We recall, at this time, that Nicaragua is one of the poorest countries in the world; it is the second poorest country in Latin America. An interesting visit by Nicaraguan students and teachers last June reminded us and demonstrated in this Parliament the brutal situation of repression, violence and threat that the country is experiencing. These and these young people told us about repression of peasants, students, workers; of repression of women, of repression of LGBTI groups; they told us and detailed a state of terror, of widespread corruption... at the highest levels; regular, constant killings... in protests, demonstrations. They were talking about the 15-year-old child Alvaro Conrado, a student of the Loyola Jesuit school, who was killed by paramilitaries in a demonstration as he passed by. In that country, there was no absolute institutionality in all its orders. Well, different sources speak of detainees, missing persons... To them and to all that told us by these young Nicaraguan students and teachers, the threats to priests, bishops, the Catholic Church, aggressions to priests, priests... The clumsy government actions mainly in relation to such basic aspects as pensions, social security; we must read carefully this year's statement of the European Parliament in relation to the description of these issues... The statements of the European Union, as well as other statements of the Organization of American States, of the media siege that has been set up in the country, were also spoken and spoken and observed and are also made: ban on certain media, certain journalists... to exercise his profession freely. To end these issues too: the expulsion of the high commissioner of the United Nations, to prevent his work for human rights in Nicaragua. The sources also say that 500 Nicaraguans flee every day from that country; we recall that it is a country of about 6 million inhabitants. In addition, in that information we were recently able to see, a few weeks ago, a report by Xl Weekly Well, with this, institutions like the European Parliament, the European Commission, most Latin American countries – let's remember the statement of July 16, 2018 –... They have expressed deep concern about the situation of human rights violations in Nicaragua and the continuing deterioration of democracy, civil and political rights of Nicaraguans. They have condemned all these institutions, and many more, the crimes, and have acknowledged that the demonstrations have highlighted the public's discomfort with respect for the political powers in Nicaragua. The Eurocamera has recalled that, to the first protests against the reform of the social security system, new issues on the functioning of democracy, institutions and the rule of law have been added, and it has pointed out that national dialogue must also include political reforms in the country; in particular, a reform of the electoral system and, possibly, an agreed electoral timetable, among other issues. As I said earlier, the media outside Nicaragua have informed European opinion of the serious human rights violations perpetrated by government action and extremist and paramilitary organizations in support of the ruling regime. However, the Nicaraguan media do not report, they cannot report, what is happening in that country, to their citizens. We said in the explanatory statement of the initiative that the statements, statements or pronouncements of different institutions and governments are innumerable, more than six in the last weeks or months of the European External Action Service. We need to reiterate the statement by the European Union on the decision of the Nicaraguan Government to terminate the presence of the mission of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Recently, the European Parliament's resolution – i.e., an impeccable, harsh, forceful but realistic and descriptive resolution – of 31 May 2018, i.e., almost at the beginning of the demonstrations, which in its considerations describes an extreme situation already then, which has been aggravated, and of maximum tension, with the violent protagonistism of government agents. And that speaks, moreover, in a statement of these characteristics, with names and surnames, absolutely clarifying of those responsible for this whole situation. We must also remember – and we must remember – the special statement on the situation in the Republic of Nicaragua on July 16, 18, of this year, made by the governments of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay. The Organization of American States (OAS) also condemned the violence in Nicaragua, called for participation in the national dialogue and urged the Government to support an electoral calendar in a resolution adopted by the Permanent Council on July 18. This is the situation; it is clear: We have all been able to meet her; we have spoken in this House, many times, of brotherly countries that have complicated situations; we have spoken many times or sometimes of Venezuela; we have spoken here, many times, of Colombia... And, in this case, because we have interests, because there are Basque people working there in non-governmental organizations or in economic, social or commercial interests, so we also have to worry about this situation and the links that, of course, we have, as everyone knows. That is why we are presenting this non-legislative proposal, which we have agreed to take on board, of course, the important and interesting amendments made by the Socialist Group, which were additional amendments made by the Socialist Group, and by the Basque Nationalist Group, in relation to the situation of violence in Nicaragua. I will sum up, in fact, so as not to exhaust time. We are talking about six points, indeed: the first to condemn the acts of violence that have taken place in recent months in Nicaragua; to reiterate the need for the authorities to respect the rights of assembly, demonstration, freedom of expression, etc.; to convey our condolences from this Parliament to the families of the victims and to deplore the excessive use of force by the authorities to put an end to the protests; to demand that all repression and arbitrary detention be stopped; to express concern and rejection by the Government of Nicaragua of the recent decision to end United Nations missions on the ground – that is basic; and also that the Basque Parliament endorse the pronouncements of the institutions of the European Union, such as the resolution of 31 May 2018 and another series of resolutions or communiqués in relation to this situation. Indeed, the two amendments were fully acceptable, because they were of common sense: to transmit support to the Nicaraguan Centre for Human Rights and to recall its work of denouncing, documenting and informing the national and international community. And finally, that the Basque Parliament denounces the anti-democratic drift of President Daniel Ortega and his Government, which augurs certainly hard and difficult times for the people of Nicaragua. This is the initiative that we are putting before the House, and I would like to recall it, because the fact is that following this situation in newspapers, or, in this case, the one that has served me most as a reference for many issues, which has been El País, and some collaboration of some journalist, has been interesting, right?, collecting it and following it and seeing with realism what was going on. Heraldo Muñoz said in an article entitled The Progressives and Nicaragua Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u105	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over the teams who have advanced the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Imérion, is your word. Martínezon, your word is yours. Come on, please... Please! Please, who has that music? You don't...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u106	Thank you, good evening. Well, we wait for it to finish... [[Words]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u107	They're all gone. Enough! I'd love to. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u108	I'm coming. Well, good afternoon. The moment of dancing will come later. Now, seriously. Nicaragua hurts us. Nicaragua hurts us in a somewhat special way. Much of the Basque, Spanish, European and American left grew up with the longings that at the time represented the Sandinista Revolution. Thousands and thousands of internationalists were in Nicaragua, supporting the people of Nicaragua against the dictatorship. Against also the empire; among them, sitting there, my companion Juan Luis Uria. Nikaraguak, age Latinoamerikak ere bai, Iraultza Sandinistarekin bat, beer historians garai gloriatsuenetarikoak bizi izan zituen. Urte horietan herria altxatu zen, Fronte Sandinistaren eskutik, beraien historiaren jabe bilakatuz. Toppling Somoza, fighting against the U.S. empire trying to crush a small country, a Central American country, yearning for dreams of justice and building a hopeful country for the rest of the region. A country with social justice, a country that showed that it was possible to reverse decades of domination. But the elections were lost and, democratically, the Sandinista Front accepted it, and returned 16 years later. Again hope, again hope after 16 years of liberal governments, again hope for the people of Nicaragua. Hopes renewed. In the years of the setting of Neoliberalism, the result of this model was obvious in Nikaragua. Decorations were lost on the continent of Latin America, where differences and poverty increased. Nevertheless, the government, the people, and the progress of progress, succeeded in advancing. And we are in a geopolitical context, because, if not, we would not know what we are talking about, about a decade gained in the last democratic, progressive and advanced governments that Latin America has had, outside the designs of its elites and the designs of the IMF. A context that is going backwards, but they are also knowing how to resist, and I am saying that it is going backwards by parliamentary coups of state in Brazil and Paraguay – I believe that the Basque Parliament has not spoken about it –, coup d'état in Honduras, permanent coup in Venezuela, turning back on social progress in Ecuador, farce trials of presidents like Lula or vice presidents like Jorge in Ecuador, destabilization orchestrated in Central America and with AMLO; that is, they have not dared for the third time. Or going to Nicaragua, a Nica Act, drawn up by Obama and approved by Trump, which establishes economic sanctions for Nicaragua. And we say it again: not to their rulers, but to the people. And I don't know why until 2017 these sanctions were not imposed on Nicaragua; perhaps it has to do with a questionable channel – then I'll talk about it – that it has decided to do along with a Chinese company and that it slightly upsets the plans of the United States there. Questionable channel. But what do we play with these sanctions? Geopolitically, the government that matches progressic sectors of Nicaragua. In recent years, although it has been a complicated context, it has been a government that has acquired social progress, and these steps have also been derived from the aid of this regional organisation in the ALBA integration. Nevertheless, Nikarica has many social, economic, political, democratic, and institutional problems, which we accept. And our voice does not shake – in case anyone expected it – for being critical. But we are critical from the left eta herriarekin leialak. Leialak herriarekin. And perhaps the criticisms we make are not –some, at least – the same ones you do. The criticisms that we can make of the Government, of the management of recent years of the Government of Nicaragua, for it is precisely these privileged relations with the Catholic Church, which now seems to be not so many, or with that great entrepreneur of Nicaragua, which has made it impossible to change Nicaragua's economic matrix. Either that non-legalization of abortion, or the increase in economic extractivism, or we also question the management of the interoceanic channel that has generated criticism, conflicts with indigenous groups, environmentalists and peasant communities. On April 17th, the government was reforming the Social Act, raising corporations and workers' settlements and dropping pensions to 5%. Two days later, the legitimate mobilization against the reform of the law was celebrated in Managua. A reform that we do not share from the left. I haven't heard you say anything about it, Mr. Barrio, because it's the same thing you guys were doing here. In that case imposed by the IMF; here they were dictated by Europe. There are riots that raise tension in Nicaragua and there is a totally disproportionate use of force by the police of the Government of Daniel Ortega. A situation of repression, of demonstrations with real fire... That is not that we do not share it, but that we reject and strongly condemn it. Not a single death is justifiable in a democracy, but also – and I think they have forgotten – there is a sector of opposition – which I am not talking about the entire opposition – that has used violence to attack mayors, radio stations – like Nueva Radio, houses of the Sandinista Front – and militants of the Sandinista Front, who are dead in more than a hundred, adding that horrific figure of 400 deaths that is estimated since the beginning of the Nicaraguan crisis. We strongly condemn these deaths, and we regret that there is no reference to these deaths in the transaction that has been presented today. We're critical, but we're responsible. We are critical of each and every death. We are responsible for Nicaragua's future. There are no first-time dead or second-time dead, whether opponents or pro-government people or people passing by. That is why we tabled this amendment, an amendment that deeply regrets the loss of life in Nicaragua, which condemns all acts of violence that the country has experienced and those that it can live in, in which we urge the parties, the Government and the opposition not to resort to violence, that the legitimate right to protest is respected and that order is maintained in a normal manner. Besides, we ask the authorities of Nicaragua to reject and investigate all the abuse of force, and even the violence used by the antient sector in the context of the freedom and defence of the democratic rights of the people of Nicaragua. We are responsible and we demand and accompany the national dialogue and the peaceful resolution of disputes, because we think – in Nicaragua, here and everywhere – that they are the best way out to solve situations and crises like Nicaragua is currently suffering. We believe that Nicaragua is a free country, that it is a sovereign country, and that is why we defend the freedom of the people of Nicaragua to resolve their problems peacefully, in national dialogue and without any external interference. And I thought I'd end up here, but I think quoting organizations like the OAS, I think it's doing Nicaragua and any of the crises that may be going on in Latin America a little bit. The OAS, with Luis Almagro at the head, I believe that you, Mr. Barrio, will agree with me that a president of the OAS who calls a former president of the Spanish state government an idiot for trying to mediate and bridge the crisis in Venezuela, I believe that he is discredited on his own, as a person, president of the institution, and the institution is discredited, as an institution, if he keeps a pyromaniac like Luis Almagro at the head. I therefore repeat the meaning of our amendment: calling for dialogue, respect for dialogue, respect for the settlement of disputes by peaceful methods, and also respect for the sovereignty of Nicaragua and for what Nicaraguans and Nicaraguans decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u110	Thank you, good evening. Writing about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. Reading about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. Hearing about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. Talking about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. And today, unfortunately, I think we've come here without time to read a few written accounts. I don't know how long we've spent writing what we've been going to say because I'm convinced that the need for integration is indispensable. And I read, I read less than I wanted to, and I wrote, probably worse than I wanted to. But I also said that we must listen and talk, and are we ready to hear what we are about to come down to-day? Are you ready to listen to those who sit on the benches? We need to talk. From the attitude of one's mind, from the freedom of saying what one wants to say, and I don't think this, this space today, this time of today... he will give us a chance to listen to one another, to talk to one another, and give us a general, profound, and steep discussion that Nikagua requires. That is why, in my opinion, what we need, what Nicaragua needs, is rather an invitation to question us, to analyse and to build on some questions that we have on the table and others that will be born after this debate. It is not enough for the descriptive recovery of the facts; a characterization of the events that have occurred is indispensable to deepen a critical analysis, allowing a better understanding of the tensions and challenges that open up to the scenarios of dispute for changes or continuities in the correlations of force. We want for Nicaragua what its people are calling for: social justice, peace and equity. And in the voice of the people, I speak of Nausar. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I want to focus on it now. Because we can say what we want here, but their country, their policy, their government, and the people of Nicaragua have all the authority to discuss and make decisions. To place the wager for peace in the centre requires an ethical and political position in which we must assume the division of nations and subjects in the centre; they are the heros who have the right and duty to decide over their reality, democracy, and political, economic, culture, and social life. And ours ought to be of the business, of the support, of the possibility of conversation, of throwing a hand at points where there is difficulty. And he who's planning here today is out of the way. The conflict in Nicaragua must be resolved in Nicaragua through social dialogue and peace. Nicaragua is no one's territory, but a free State, which has its own legitimate, questionable but legitimate institutions; it is not a country with limited sovereignty and, therefore, the problems that exist, are solved in the country. I repeat again, that the difficult state of the country of so many right governments and politics, the difficult state of the country, is taking advantage of the difficult policy of the country, and, disguised as a supposed democratist, they are merely intended to promote specific economic and political interests. Now, the restorative attempt comes from the hand of a much more aggressive international right, aware that the demands for the gain of big capital occur in a more competitive world, with other global actors strengthened and determined to occupy the spaces they claim as their own, and in circumstances where their main center of power, the United States, is operating in a dangerous, unilateral and irresponsible way, because it knows that its global power is declining. As demonstrated during the coup against Zelaya in Honduras and more recently in Guatemala, the United States treats small Central American countries as second-class colonies. He does not accept the slightest indiscipline of these nations. By the way, as I said, Honduras, I mean 21,000 students have been murdered in the last seven years. A PNL about it? And as we know that imperialism and its conspiracy exist, when you are not at the teorum, as I said at first, we must hear a great deal, read a great deal, write a great deal, and talk a great deal. And we don't come here to do that. And because I have confidence in the city of Nicaragua, because we have learned a great deal from the people of Nicaragua, and because we want to continue learning, we want to stand by them at these difficult moments. The victory of the Sandinist revolution had a terrible effect throughout the world, and even in the Basque Country, it was not a small part of their participation as an internationalant Militante to Nicaragua, and of the lives of the people who went to offer it. History shows us that the Sandinista Revolution meant the third defeat of the United States to Nicaragua: the first in the mid-19th century, when Mercenary Walker tried to create an extension of the United States to Central America; in the early 20th century, when General Sandino and his army of free men made them bite the dust of defeat and expelled them from national territory. And in '79, when they made Anastasio Somoza run away, 'our son of a bitch', as Franklin Roosevelt called him. And we are sure that those who knew how to fight against the empire will give fruit to those who are advancing the state of their country, and to bring them back to normal. We wish them that with all our heart. And therefore the idea of the correction of our whole body: I'm sorry for all the victims, I'm sorry for all the violence initiatives, I'm sorry to dislike every one of them. The non-governmental Nicaraguan Association for Human Rights claims that 448 people have died since the protests began, while the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights estimates that there are 295. President Ortega, on the other hand, claims that the balance sheet is 195 dead. We're not going in this data game. Any loss that's dead is terrible. Anyway, we don't want first and second victims. All the truncated lives in Nicaragua are regrettable. Hegemonic opinionators also invisibled the cruelty and savagery of some protests: they burned officials alive; they shot government headquarters; they torched schools; they harassed militants... Meanwhile, on the other hand, the harsh and brutal repression of the Government was obviated. We're asking the government for an investigation. We insist that the national conversation table be set on again, and, to finish it, no intervention, we repeat it again. But the mistakes that have been made, the deviations from the revolutionary and popular path, will have to be overcome by the Nicaraguan people themselves, without interference coming from Washington, via Luis Almagro and the Organization of American States, or from their Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. The negotiations would prevent the transformation of the current revolt into a greater confrontation, and we do not want that, with a terrible sequel of victims and harmful consequences at the geopolitical and national levels. A peaceful solution in Nicaragua is the best way to avoid the dangerous imperial use of the conflict. The only solution is to turn to the left, to embark on a new revolutionary cycle, through radical political reforms that empower the working class, the peasantry..., that recognize the full rights of women and original peoples, and that restore a secular, democratic, socialist and popular state. 'Free fatherland or death', the Sandinistas said. 'Free fatherland', we scream today. Gold, Nikaragua!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u112	President, ladies and gentlemen. The history of the Nicaraguans of the last century is really a harsh and cruel story. It is a story in which they first faced the occupation of the United States; then they had to endure for several decades a dictatorship and, finally, at the end of that dictatorship, when Somoza was overthrown, it seemed that a scenario was opened in Nicaragua, which could be prolonged in time, freedom, progress, progress, social cohesion and the things that we all long for for free societies and democratic societies. In the year 79, the Sandinista Front for National Liberation had enormous sympathy on the international left, and practically on all progressives and on all people who loved freedom. They were seen as a hope for Nicaragua to be another country, a country of citizens, and not a country of corruption, dictatorship and murder. And it must be said that there was a first period of that government, led by Daniel Ortega, in which Nicaragua advanced; it advanced in health, in education, in agrarian reform, in gender equality. There was an important period of economic growth and social distribution of resources in that country. I believe that this is undeniable, and it is undeniable that precisely because of what Nicaragua has experienced, because it has had to take the occupation of the United States off, because it has to overthrow a dictator, and because it has then made a democratic period in which it has made great progress..., it is undeniable that Nicaraguans are capable and sufficient to solve their problems. And they must also be the ones to solve them. Nicaraguans and citizens of any country must be the ones who try to solve their problems. However, when a demonstration held a few months ago ended up with 84 dead, 860 wounded, 400 detained, I believe that there is no longer a national problem in Nicaragua and only a problem for Nicaraguans, I believe there is an international problem. Because, in the world in which we live and to which we belong and want to belong, there is what is called the universal defence of human rights, there is international solidarity, there is widespread commitment, and that is why we participate in a number of places, platforms, agencies... in which we try to ensure this kind of behaviour at the general level. That is why we are participating in the United Nations; that is why we want to mediate from Europe, many times, in the face of situations of these characteristics that occur in different parts of the world, and that is why this Parliament often speaks internationally in places where we could say that the Basque Parliament does not say anything, because they are enough to solve these problems. But we believe that there can also be international aid, that there can be solidarity aid, and this Parliament wants to speak because it has the capacity to do so, because it does so many times and because it has to do so here too. In Nicaragua, at the moment, there is an international coincidence of all platforms and of all those responsible for information, that is, of information professionals, of those who bring to light what is happening, and that is that there is no freedom of information. In Nicaragua, it is evidence that there has been a constitutional violation, because there is a limitation of mandates that has been transferred, to perpetuate itself in power. In Nicaragua there are many things that are being done wrong and that we can criticize it in a spirit that is absolutely in solidarity with Nicaraguans. And also, of course, by giving them the support to solve the problems. Now, when in a demonstration by an opposition to social security reform there is that balance of victims and there is that situation that goes out to the world and that takes it out everyone else, that is that it is not something that is directed by opportunists or people of dubious proceeding that get up to the cart, that there are also them, but that everyone has positioned themselves in it. The European Union has a very clear position, a unitary position, a position in which they have been appreciated and investigated, above all, the aspects that are currently taking place in Nicaragua, and has a statement or a resolution in which he quotes and says everything that has been seen and everything that has been consulted, and finally makes a pronouncement. And it takes a position in favour of defending human rights, in favour of a situation of democracy and, above all, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of information and much more. As has been said here, Nicaragua is a country that is now extremely impoverished and that also affects us, because we are part of that liberation that took place in Nicaragua in its day, because Nicaraguans received enormous solidarity from our country and many people in our country. And, obviously, we all want that to continue to evolve, but right now there are problems that are very difficult to deal with and solve from Nicaragua itself, because there is a huge inequality between those who have the armies, those who have the weapons, those who act in such a brutal way as was done in that demonstration and those who are raising open political positions. We, in the compromise amendment, begin by saying that we condemn absolutely all deaths, because, in fact, there are neither first nor second deaths and violence is neither advisable nor an absolute solution for anyone and it is not a recourse to which from a deeply democratic conception can be appealed. Although it is true that, well, some only appeal to that when they are interested and other times they are much softer, lighter and more benevolent with such acts. But, well, it is not our case, and that is why we can defend, with all normality and vehemence, that in Nicaragua there is an express solidarity with the Nicaraguan population, but there is also a complaint about the situation of violence that has been created there and of lack of respect for human rights. In Nicaragua, educational centers, university centers... because the students gather to defend their proposals, their demands, their political vision of Nicaragua, which have the perfect right to do so, but, at the moment, there are no democratic guarantees to be able to do so. And that is what has come to this Parliament, with the proposal of the People's Party, from Carmel. The initiative has been his, but it is a timely initiative and leads this Parliament to position itself and that this Parliament stands in favour of an international mediation, that a number of observers and bodies can try to help, to mediate... for the situation to be resolved, this is something we do constantly in other places, unfortunately, and I think it has to be done perfectly in Nicaragua. Therefore, there is neither an approach of hostility nor an approach of going against anyone in Nicaragua, but an approach of going in favour of it being resolved. And sometimes it hurts to do these kinds of interventions, because there is indeed enormous sympathy accumulated over a long time. Here came many citizens, also to Vitoria, who were then part of the Sandinista Front for National Liberation, to whom we received, with whom we were, to whom we also transferred solidarity there, when they were already in those times before the fall of Somoza. Well, there's a lot of sympathy, there's a lot of affection, there's a lot of admiration even for the things that Nicaraguans have done in such adverse circumstances. But all that can't cover up or can't lead us to make soft, almost contentless statements about what's going on. It is very serious what is happening, and therefore the international community, the international democratic community, the community that defends the defence of freedom and that defends the universalization of human rights and that expresses international solidarity has to be communicated, has to be pronounced, and we make that pronouncement. We do so, we do so with that amendment, and I believe that that is where all the groups in this House belong. But, well, let each one do as he sees fit. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u113	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good afternoons. As those who have spoken before me have said, it is the case of Nicaragua or of Nicaragua. Vice can never be justified, even when it is the answer of another violence, and nothing to say when the original of this violence is in authority, when it comes from the power. The state of the country in Nicaragua, or the affair of it, takes us far; but, thanks to communications, what happens in it, where they live, or at least we can see a part, and we can feel a little nearer. Every day, on the media, on the writing, on TV, on the radio... We see different violences, alas, in essays, and above all news; and it is my fear that we shall be accustomed to general violence, or more serious, we shall not be used by now. There, on the media, the media, the media... We hear news about us, and we see what happens around the world. But it's one thing to see, and it's another thing to live directly. It is not easy to see or hear such news, as I have said; but, perhaps, as natural reaction or defence, we leave them aside to be able to go forward in our daily life and shake them off their heads. And it is a responsibility to all of us to accuse them and to work against them, to accuse them as we are here to-day. When the children are involved, it is proper to give an explanation to all violence, not to accustom them, and not to take what is not normal. Children are often told that they are lucky for the location they are born, or for the material they have. But all children have their right from birth to be able to live in peace. In Nicaragua, children and adults are subject to violent violence, and, as has been said, we cannot here look on the other side. The dead and the prisoners have been arrested, the violence of power has been exposed for the past few months, and we make an accusation against Europe. About 400 people died, about 2,000 injured, over 200 people imprisoned, families destroyed. To this painful reality, we must add, according to those responsible for the tourism sector of the country, the loss of about 70,000 jobs. This sector generates some 120,000 jobs; therefore, more than half of them have been destroyed. Material losses to which must be added the most serious, human losses, among which there are many and many young people. These protests, which began last April with attempts to reform social security, have created Nicaragua's most serious social and political crisis since 1980, also with Daniel Ortega as president. Among the dead are also minors. All this violence, its origin, is in the government's repression of the protests led by the students. Although the reform was only in one attempt, the protests have continued in the last few months. Most of the deceased are demonstrators; among them, young students. International appeals are numerous in the face of violations and violations of rights in Managua and elsewhere in Nicaragua. Violence and human rights violations by law enforcement agencies and armed groups related to the Government. The people demand freedom and demand rights and new elections. In 2006, Daniel Ortega began to announce freedom and peace in the campaign for president. Justice, liberty, and resentment were the only fools used. He rebelled against injustice, and defended the liberty of all the people. He said he would respect private property and the liberties of society, too. Nevertheless, the committee of the human rights of Nicaragua had at that time accused them of it. On the day of the vote he got 37%,99, and when they first made President of 2007, he said: "Sta es una sera señal de la muy craunta que tenemos los iaragüens de labore de la interjon del país y tumbilade, por encima de nuntras difecias pollias, pesa, en primera lugar, el compromos tenemos de sacar a mariça de la mariçaa, mariça de maria, maridodondo credo creendos de pofes de profes de quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quee quea." Or Daniel Ortega has a very weak memory, or did not believe the words he spoke at his own time-they were mere words. In 2008, there was a public transport strike in Nicaragua, two dead, wounded, and arrested by the protests. The abortion, as has been said here, is illegal in all cases of Nicaragua, even when the life of my mother is in danger. These measures were formed by the President, who had preceded him, and he in some cases applied them. He proclaimed freedom at his moment, and after seeing at least some actions, we may say that, though he had at first advanced, now both he and his government have gone a little further. "The independent journalism of Nicaragua rewarded for denouncing the Ortega regime"; "The European Union suspends police cooperation with Nicaragua, for repression"; "Ortega expels a UN mission from Nicaragua"; "Massual dismissal in Nicaragua's rebel classrooms"; "Ortega demands Costa Rica to have a list of Nicaraguans seeking asylum"; "Ortega intensifys the arrests of its opponents"; "Ortega increases the siege of journalists in Nicaragua"; "The Nicaragua of Daniel Ortega, a democracy that turns into a farce". These Banners give us a photo of the reality of this American people. Where is Daniel Ortegae's freedom? Where is Daniel Ortega's justice for you? What about respect, peace and recognition? We demand responsibility. We're asking for an end to the repression. We're asking for an end to arrests. And we demand an investigation of the facts. We stress the importance of the restoration of the so-called National Dialogue with the Civic Alliance and the mediation of the Nicaraguan Episcopal Conference to resolve the police and social crisis. There is a need to initiate a phase of reconciliation and coexistence in the country. All this is exactly what Daniel Ortega used to defend for the first time when he was appointed president. But, as often happens, it is one thing that is said and another thing done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Passing the answer to the popular Basque Group, Mr Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u116	Thank you, President. Briefly, for some hint. Indeed, Mr. Martínez Zatón spoke of hopes, hopes when Ortega won again, and today they are broken hopes, right? They're broken hopes. That's been proven. And sometimes, I mean, how much does it cost, right?. We must divert attention to issues such as this, which we all know and which we have all seen and tried to see with balance and objectivity. How hard it is to recognize that there are governments that systematically violate human rights, that are harsh dictatorships, that are authentic dictatorships, even though they were revolutionaries or..., but that today they are dictatorships and that attention must be diverted. Attention must be diverted, because we must talk about the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church, which today is with the poor in Nicaragua, which is with the poor and is suffering precisely the threat, repression and aggression. And we have to talk about the United States, of course, and we have to talk about the international right, without any doubt. Look, today there is structural poverty and there are many countries in Latin America and Central America, but these problems have worsened with the presence of the dictator today Ortega. They've gotten worse. And I believe that, in relation to one of the allusions that you made to the non-law proposition and to our disbarment, you have not read well the non-law proposition, so you can see. I mean, read the word 'all', right? For us, the first point is clear: "The Basque Parliament condemns all the acts of violence that have taken place in recent months in Nicaragua". In other words, we said that we reiterated the need for respect for human rights (of demonstration, of assembly, of freedom of expression), as well as for the investigation and prosecution of all deaths in the crisis of 18 April. We were saying more things, I'm not going to repeat them, but in this you have to give reason, that we were talking about everyone, but we were accenting where violence has been and where it is becoming violence and structural repression in that country. It also sought, with a long change, to disqualify statements by international agencies or organizations. Listen, international organisations or bodies – the OAS, the European Union – about what they are talking about, first of all in their statements, is condemning crimes and murders, and condemning the actions of Mr Ortega's regime; but, in a straight line, they are all talking about national dialogue and restoring it, and that there may be elections and changes in behaviour. They also talk about those issues. And we have also taken this initiative, because we were also asked by young Nicaraguan students, who objectively explained this reality to us; we have contrasted it, together with other bodies, with the European Union, the Organization of American States. That the Organization of American States is not an entelequia or presides over it by a gentleman with whom I do not agree with the things I can say, preside over it and lead it and compose it countries with important democratic trajectories that are there and which, of course, analyse its environment in a clear and realistic way. Mrs Etxebarrieta has spoken of listening. He has used several verbs about Nicaragua. Listening to Nicaragua; he said more, it is painful and sad, and that is, of course, what the students who came to the House told us in June. That is what they told us, that it is sad and painful what is happening in Nicaragua and, of course, starting with the regime and institutional repression. The international right, the United States... That's not Nicaragua's problem. Wasn't there a revolution? There was a revolution that triumphed. It was also then the international right and also the United States. Now, it's not like that... Do not speak, in that diverting attention, of the Catholic Church, the international right, of the United States... No, no, no. There has now been a process of involution, led by someone who could not manage the supposed success of the revolution and became the shadow of the oppressor he defeated. Mr Martinez Zatón, I would have liked you to have had a little more waist in a debate like this, but I think you still have some ideological and political considerations that it will be good to get rid of, if you can.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u117	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u118	Thank you for the advice, Mr. Barrio. My hair is falling off; I hope that when I continue to move forward, I will remain as communist as when I began to fall off my head. Let us focus on what we have come to discuss, but I did want to make a request to the judge and Mr Barrio, and we are not talking about the current government, but it is that, when we talk about history, I think we need to be a little rigorous. I mean, he won the Sandinista Revolution and then he lost some elections, there was a democracy and nothing happened. Fuck... Just as the Contra, as thousands, that is, millions of dollars of funding, financing the Contra, against the elected government and the triumphant Nicaraguan Revolution..., just as it has something to do with Nicaragua having a situation of poverty, with the war being in a rather dantastic situation and with the end of a pact to make an election, which in the end the Sandinista Front lost and accepted defeat. Perhaps the Contra and the role of the United States had something to do, perhaps. I don't know... History will judge. The situation of structural poverty – in Nicaragua, of course, and throughout Central America and throughout Latin America – is called capitalism; it is called unequal trade; it is called unequal relations between countries; it is called trade flows that we have between the North and the South, which oppress the countries of the South; it is called corrupt elites in Latin America and the South, who administer these kinds of situations, that capitalism does what it does is to drown the economies and drown the dreams of social justice of the peoples, in this case, of Latin America. And he talks about the Church, that the Church is with the poor in Latin America. The Catholic hierarchy is light years away from the poor in Latin America. Another thing is the basic people of the Catholic Church, because I believe that being against the right to abortion is being far away from the people. And the same thing I have criticized that the government does not legalize abortion, I criticise that the Church is campaigning militantly against abortion in all the countries of Latin America; the Catholic Church and all the churches. And yes, it is critical and I will continue to criticise that it is mentioned in your transaction to the OAS as a valid element for resolving conflicts. The OAS, President Luis Almagro for Venezuela, has said that they are also doing well with a military intervention. I believe that with these mediators, there is no need for commanders-in-chief of any army. And I say again, in its literal text, there is no explicit condemnation of the violence of an opposition sector; it is very generic. In what we have presented, which is very similar to that presented by EH Bildu, because it also comes from the debate that took place in the European Parliament and from the contribution of the European United Left and the Nordic Green Left in that debate, we condemn all the violence that has been suffered in the Nicaraguan crisis. All of it. To which has occurred by the police and also to the opposition sectors, I don't know, it seems to me, I haven't heard... at any time, refer to burnt houses or schools, burnt Sandinista militants in the street, etc., etc. Repression and violence are always condemnable and all deaths are condemnable. And we all have to investigate them, and we have to end that violence. And the only thing, and from the greatest respect – Oihana Etxebarrieta explained it very well –..., from the greatest respect for the maturity of the people of Nicaragua, the only thing we recommend and put ourselves at their service is to promote dialogue, national dialogue and peace and, above all, non-interference. I insist, making appeals to international organizations such as the OAS is an appeal that is intrusive and that we will never sign; therefore, we will not vote for your initiative. – as the transaction has, probably ours is not voted on – but we continue to defend that condemnation of all violence, that all deaths are investigated, that there is a national dialogue and that there is peace in Nicaragua, that is what all Nicaraguans want, and that there is no interference in Nicaragua's internal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u119	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The representative of EHG, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u120	Yes, thank you. Well, Mr. Barrio just told us about this conviction, right? , they wanted to spread that spectrum. It is true that we see it in our reading, and it is plain that it is legitimate to make a remark on the violence made by the Government, and over the force it uses; and, as we say, when the distribution of power is present, they must be remarked. And it's legitimate to put that point where you want it. And you're the ones who've drawn the themes of the sentence on different points, but we haven't seen the conversation underlined in a moment, and this was very important for us. And even in the correction of your work, it did not make any remark on it. Yes, I repeat to the Government a critique, legitimate, and Centro Nicaragüense de Deréchos Humanos, a special allusion to harbindo absolutely legitimate, which also is François, but the appeal to conversation is not done at any time. And we, too, had the opportunity of meeting with the students of Nicaragua who came to this legislature because we wanted to participate in it; we heard them, we thanked them... We have therefore derived from what they have said, and from what they have said that we have made a proposition of correction. It is also evident that we have considered the motive which we presented in Europe as a foundation, but in this it became very manifest to me, and that one of the ideas which made it evident was the necessity of the conversation, and that this conversation must be in Nikaragua. And they didn't want to be outlawed. It's the students who've been here. Therefore we have put it under consideration in the right to decide them, in the view of their self-destruction, and in this appeal to the conversation. And one of the things that worry us... And again, it is lawful that disputes should be carried away as they please: the whole meeting, a committee, or an institutional expression... As a rule, when we've worked on things like this, we've worked on a new stop at a committee, or an institutional expression, i.e., we've all tried to agree with each other. It's funny that when I came down here to talk about the international themes, about Venezuela and about Nicaragua, and I repeat, it's legitimate that anyone who wants to bring him back to this, but, well, it's legitimate to notice that. Why do we have to talk about Nicaragua and Venezuela like this? I repeat, in my opinion, that this does not contribute to that paused argument which Venezuela and Nicaragua deserve. That's my opinion. But I repeat: It's legitimate to bring him back as he pleases. Eta agian gaizki ulertu dut, Prieto jauna, baina esan that his proposal is soft and let go; I do not know if he referred to the amendment that we had made, but I would like to know in a gentle way what he has: if there is no criticism of the violence that the Government also exerts, if there is no criticism of the participation that he has had, and if there is no criticism of the participation that he has had, and he is again asking for the negotiation and he is again asking that the negotiating table be set up, where the Government has to be, he has to make his decisions, he has to take his steps and civil society should also be represented there, because of the different and legitimate proposals that he has been carrying out on the street so far. We, then, again insist on the call for conversation, not the appeal to engineering, and we know that Nicaragua is the master of age, and we insist that we shall be present again. And we insist: with all the policies which have hitherto been made, perhaps we shall not agree, and I, in personal life, cannot admit many and many, but this does not prevent us from saying where the discussion is intended to go, and of which we must speak, and of what we wish to use and talk about. And what's the purpose? : peace and social justice, a Nicaraguan or a combination of blocks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u122	Yes, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Martínez Zatón said that his proposal was inspired by the European Union, by the declaration of the European Union. In addition, he proposed that there were a number of things we did not say about, in the same way that Mrs Etxebarrieta also said. Well, I think that, sometimes, reading the initiatives carefully is good. The fourth point of the compromise amendment says exactly: "Finally, Parliament endorses the pronouncements of the institutions of the European Union, such as the resolution of 31 May 2018." We could have copied the resolution of 31 May 2018, but by reference to it we are already taking all the political approaches that are being taken. And the European Union resolution of 18 May calls for "the Nicaraguan authorities to put an end to acts of violence", and also calls for "the protesters and civil society organisations that are at the forefront of protests to refrain from resorting to violence through the exercise of their rights", etc. In the same way as in this statement, "the Nicaraguan authorities are urged to lend to the agents of society, including opposition forces, journalists and human rights defenders, including environmental and civil society activists, sufficient space to act freely". That is to say, this is what is being proposed; to these concrete elements..., which gathers them all, that is, that we talk about condemning all kinds of violence; when we talk about dialogue, we talk about recovering democratic rights, of defending all human rights. All this is in this statement; however, in your proposal and in yours – since you have asked me – absolutely none of this is said. I mean, you go from point to point for all these things. You do not talk about freedom of information, which currently does not exist there, and which is internationally recognized. It does not speak of perpetuation in power, violating the provisions of the Nicaraguan Constitution, in terms of the mandates that are assessed and cannot be prolonged. He does not talk about corruption, which is currently quite vox populi in relation to some of the families in power. It does not speak of the vetoes to the observers who are posing themselves, when then here we want to be observers in the middle of the world; that is, this goes from small dots, so soft little, it is very soft little, and that is why I said it was soft little... But, of course, we have spoken out on all the aspects that you raise, on all and on many more that are in this declaration of the European Union, which is a unitary statement, very measured, investigated, very documented and that it would be good for you to read it, because you were probably going to find another Nicaragua different from that which comes to you is not known by what kind of information agencies. Now, of course I do agree – I said all this – with Nicaragua, in addition to these problems that right now There are, of course, a situation of imperialism, of occupation, of intervention by the financial powers, of the international right and of everything that has been raised here. Of course. Yeah. That is, Nicaragua and other countries in Central America and other countries in other continents too. And there is the misfortune of inequality. So, obviously, the inequality that exists in the world is related to all that, and Nicaragua is one of the sufferers, and not the only one. However, if that is the case and it can be considered, it cannot be avoided, it must not be avoided and it cannot hide that there is an emergency situation in Nicaragua at the moment. A situation of human rights violations, a demonstration against social security reform that ends in 84 deaths, 860 wounded and 400 imprisoned, is an international emergency problem. And the international community must speak and must do so without lukewarmness. And I have appreciated lukewarmness in you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u123	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u124	There were only two things to explain: We have condemned everything. We didn't just stop part of it. I think, at least in my involvement, and even in the past, that it has become clear. And what we three have signed is the one that's accepted in Europe, complete. And I recommend you, too, to examine it carefully and read it carefully. Yes, as Mr. Barrio said, and as Mr Price said, it's very wide, and I think you've stopped on the cover. I just wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Now that the discussion is over, I'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Euzia Abertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-10-04.u126	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
