ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the fifth point in the subject will be discussed in the former place, and the first in the place of the fifth. Quiet, please. All of them. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentarian Society as made by the Parlamentary People, concerning the political rule which the Board of Education determines the practice of the specialists for educational aid. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. He has Mrs. Bengoche representing the population team to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We believe that the issue that my group brings here is an issue that, even though there have been different points of view in the end, enjoys the general consensus. Why? Because we're talking about educational support specialists. Educational support specialists are, and I think they will be more in the future, a key piece in education. Why? We have data – of course the government may have more accurate data – of about 8,000 students of the three hundred and a thousand peaks. "We are always talking about compulsory education," some 8,000 students with some kind of difficulty, three hundred and a thousand peaks, as I said. At the same time, I believe that all groups are convinced that equity in education is fundamental. And what does that equity consist of? For that equity consists in giving each person what he needs so that then we can achieve full equality. Logically, these eight thousand and peak boys and girls, students in compulsory education, have special needs, and they must be cared for, and therefore, in order to truly achieve a quality educational system, educational support specialists become key tools in our society. Last May, two educational support specialists, with many years – 14-15 years – of experience behind their backs and representing a group of 1,700 educational support specialists, approached the Education Commission and explained their problems, explained to us the ways of work and those things that we could improve among all. The first thing they told us was that, like everything that is being innovated, they began with a merely auxiliary consideration. And if they were merely auxiliary, their function was simply to pick up those children at home, take them to the centers, be with them at the centers throughout the day and return them to their homes, but, of course, the profession of educational support specialist goes far beyond and, above all, has requirements, much deeper requirements than that mere auxiliary ability: they are people who have to speak deaf language; they are people who have to master Braille language; they are people who have to have knowledge of ASD – What is ASD? The disorder in the autistic spectrum, which is what is currently called all these creatures because the problem is very wide, so they are disorders of the autistic spectrum–; they are people who, of course, have to meet the requirements of bilingualism, at least, and they are people on whom the progress of both pedagogical and teaching as well as the social well-being of these children in their groups falls. Meeting with associations of parents who have creatures in these groups – especially those of Down's syndrome – one of the most painful things for them was that those children who have, of course, their emotional abilities not only perfectly developed, but even sometimes more developed, because they are not compensated for by other types of malice or by other strategies to survive in the group, who have those emotions, as I say, so developed, they saw how those children were being changed from class, lost their group, lost their partners, and for them that was so painful. This is an example where educational support specialists are vital. They are vital because they can accompany that creature and help him not to remain isolated and to progress with the group, of course not with the same requirements of progress, but to feel included and accompanied. This is an example, simply, of the importance of their work. And what difficulties did they see in the performance of their function? Well, let's see: By being considered or treated, because already the decree of 2004 corrected that consideration of auxiliary and gave them a somewhat greater empowerment, but by not having reached that empowerment so much to the Berritzeguns Berritzeguns I mean, by professionalism it was almost a struggle in solitary and a struggle in solitary, as I say, of a key collective to achieve equity in education. Following that appearance that our group requested in the committee, we developed this non-legislative proposal that we bring here today. It is true, and it must be recognized, that the council has not been in a cross-arms position and has recently issued a decree, but it is a decree that deals above all with their working conditions, which is very good because, of course, they are a collective that must be greatly valued, but the complaint brought by the educational support specialists was not a labour complaint, it was not an economic complaint, it was not a complaint of timetables; it was a professional, professional complaint. That is why we, in this non-legislative proposal that we brought, called for a new protocol of action that would empower them. That is, when an educational support specialist intervenes, he feels empowered enough to speak of the person, the child he or she guards and to be able to cooperate in the further development, both pedagogical and social, of this creature. That's what we asked. We have come to a compromise with the groups that support the Government, because, of course, the groups that support the Government were calling for the work that the Education Council has done to improve the conditions of educational support specialists to be made relevant – and it is fair that it is done. That was his amendment, but we could not accept that amendment as, unless we added a part to which there was a request to the Government for such professional empowerment, of that relationship with the Berritzeguns. We also wanted them to be empowered in front of their parents, which depended heavily on the center. There were some centers that allowed it, but there were other centers that did not allow it. They said, "No, parents only talk to guardians." Of course, you have to think, and it's not a reproach to teachers, at all, but you have to think that a teacher who has, let's put, 22 children, 21 children in the classroom and has three children who need that special help, because logically, having a special help specialist, will download part of the knowledge of the progress and socialization of those children who need extra help and will tend to focus on the other 18-19s who can progress statistically normally, statistically normally – I'm not trying to establish a criterion of what is normal or not, but what is statistically normal. And of course, when dealing with the parents of those children who have special needs, because, logically, the educational support specialist is the one who knows the creature most, the one who knows most. There are even many times, that centers ask these specialists to develop a parallel curriculum that is accessible to these creatures. Or, in other cases, when they are children who come from different cultures, who develop a work plan so that these children can eventually end up integrated into the class. And to do this, what do specialists need? They need to be empowered. They need to be empowered, be able to act with authority, with responsibility and in communication with all adults who have to do with the creature. We have come to this compromise because it takes both things together; first, of course, we recognize the work of the Department of Education in what it has done with regard to educational support specialists, but which, above all, deals with working conditions, which is very welcome; and second, in which we call for such empowerment for these professionals. Having reached this consensus, we have signed the compromise and will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today we begin this plenary debate on a collective that, as we have already said from Elkarrekin Podemos on other occasions, is being a key and fundamental piece for the development of a truly equitable and truly inclusive Basque educational system. We talk about the group of educational support specialists, a group of educators who with their daily work, an essential work, work to ensure a truly inclusive Basque public school. Because paper endures everything, but it is not enough for the word "inclusive" to be reflected in our laws or repeated over and over again. That's not enough for us. Real inclusion requires support, support, resources and also recognition from the Education Administration. The work carried out by the educational support specialists and the group of professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u4	Quiet, please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u5	...is essential for the development of an equitable education system. Just as it is essential that this Government support both the teaching community and the educational staff of the centres in their day-to-day and daily realities. This group works with the student who has special educational needs and with the student who needs educational support, both inside and outside the classroom. Its objective is to ensure that this student has a healthy integral development, facilitate access to the school curriculum, help him to develop the maximum possible autonomy in different fields, to promote and develop his social relations, to transmit and interpret the contents of the subjects... In short, their work is essential in order to be able to offer public and quality education for all and to leave no one behind. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that this collective deserves this Parliament to recognize its daily work as professionals, and therefore, the first point of our amendment to the whole, has focused on this aspect, in urging the Basque Government to recognize the essential work of educational support specialists and professionals as educators to ensure a school... [[Berber]] I'll keep it up when the rest of you, please, respect. Already? Eskerrik asko. That is why, as I said – they were all very attentive – from Elkarrekin We believe that this collective deserves this Parliament to recognize its daily work as professionals. Therefore, the first point of our amendment to the whole has focused on this aspect, urging the Basque Government to recognize the essential work of educational support specialists and professionals as educators to ensure a truly inclusive Basque school. But we also believe that not only do educational support specialists deserve recognition, a specific group that concerns us in this initiative, but it is also necessary to recognize the work of the group of professionals that make up the group of special education educators. That is: physiotherapists, sign language interpreters, occupational therapists and transcribers. That is why we use this intervention to also recognize the work of these educators: among all special education educators, they make it possible to walk towards a truly equitable educational system, that is, they make it possible for every child to receive the support he or she needs specifically and exactly. Likewise, we believe that this collective deserves explicit recognition, because it is often an invisible collective, invisible within the whole educational community and invisible in the classrooms, since it does not even have the right to vote in the cloisters in most centers, spaces where decisions are made that directly affect them. A group that, although today and in general terms already recognized as educators and educators, is still commonly referred to as "caregivers" or "caregivers", "auxiliaries" or "helpers". Let us turn to the data and to what the current legislation contains. According to the data collected in the The chapter of the last report of the Euskadi School Council is faced with a problem of conceptualization and resource management. The Strategic Diversity Care Plan within the framework of an Inclusive School during the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 courses is the reference for conceptualization and resource management to meet students with special educational needs. In this plan, students with special educational needs are considered to be those with disabilities and/or serious behavioural disorders. However, as is known, pupils with special educational needs constitute only part of pupils with specific educational support needs. This concept is broader and also accommodates students with learning difficulties, those with high intellectual abilities, those with late entry into the education system, those with specific needs due to personal conditions or school history, and students in situations of social inequality. What's going on? Possible resources, where all ordinary measures are insufficient, include curricular adaptations regulated in the order of 24 July 1998 for special educational needs students, and subsequently, in 2012, by instructions from the Deputy Education Adviser, which already includes the new concept of the special need student for educational support. It is the student with special educational needs who, as a matter of priority, is eligible for specific resources. However, and as reflected in the report, not all of this student requires the same resources in relation to the type and time of care he needs. Hence the difficulty of establishing comparative analyses between the quantitative data of the student and those referring to the allocated resources, since these resources vary. According to the report, there are a total of 6,960 pupils with special educational needs in all stages of the 2014-2015 course, accounting for 2.19 per cent of pupils from the two-year level to the baccalaureate, an increase of 0.5 per cent over the previous course. If the evolution of data exclusively on the type of disability is analysed, the most significant increases occur in students with motor disabilities (16%) and in those with general developmental disorders (15.7%), with the average total increase of 9% in the course 2014-2015 compared to 2013-2014. However, if we refer to the group of students with specific educational support needs, it is observed that there are a group of students who do not determine – between 532 and 585 – enrolled at initial levels that do not have a definitive diagnosis. The data shows that the overall growth in specific educational support needs is almost 15% between the two courses. For this reason, the Euskadi School Council, despite the effort made in the recording and management of the data received, calls for their adaptation to the concepts proposed in the Strategic Plan for the Care of Diversity within the framework of an Inclusive School, and, in particular, calls for a clear differentiation between "student with special educational needs" and "student with specific educational support needs". In the same vein, both in the new decree establishing the curriculum for basic education and in the aforementioned strategic plan, the concepts of "alumnus with a specific need for educational support" and "inclusive school" are introduced. However, both basic concepts are not defined in the current legislation, Decree 118/1998 of 23 June, on the management of the educational response to pupils with special educational needs, within the framework of a comprehensive and inclusive school. The council therefore requests the department to update the current legislation to align the conceptualization and management of specific educational support needs within an inclusive school. It also draws attention to the need to regulate in this new standard, the conditions and consequences of application, curriculum adaptation, given the difficulties arising from its interpretation in two different frameworks: the 1998 order and the 2012 instructions. Let's go with the functions, the central objective of the initiative presented. Educational support specialists are governed by the current Collective Agreement for Teaching and Educational Labour Personnel of the Department of Education, University and Research of the Basque Government, an agreement dating from 2004 and which already contains on page 36 the functions of educational support specialists. Therefore, we do not believe that it is necessary to draw up a regulation defining the activity of educational support specialists. It is true, and almost certainly 100%, that these functions must be reviewed, but from Elkarrekin We believe that not only the functions, but also the working conditions, must be reviewed. In other words, what needs to be revised is the whole convention, a convention that has not been revised for 14 years. 14 years. In our amendment on 27 February, in paragraph 4, we urged the Basque Government to convene as soon as possible special education education staff at a sectoral negotiating table to discuss the renewal of the collective agreement, which, as we have said, has not been reviewed since 2004. And fortunately, on April 13, the STEILAS, LAB and Workers' Commissions unions reached an agreement that has taken an important step in improving the working conditions of the collective. That is to say, we can say that this point four of our initial amendment has largely been complied with. However, we believe that this is only one more step and, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that what is really necessary is to continue taking steps, because at the end of the day the proposal put forward is directly related to the signing of a new agreement, which is what this collective needs. In the same vein, in point five of our initial amendment, we urged the Basque Government to call for opposition in this educational sector, which, in the case of specialist educational support staff, have not been called since 2007. – 11 years ago – and, fortunately, we have found that the proposal agreed on 13 April also sets out an OPE in 2019. We therefore hope that the next budgets will contain this investment. In short, we all educate. Everyone from their place and through their daily behaviors and practices, but it is important that the Basque educational system not only educates teachers, but all members of the educational community. That includes the families, the teachers, the addresses of the centers, the staff of the dining room...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u6	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u7	... as well as educational support specialists and the whole group of special education educators. I'm done. We all agree that diversity enriches, but we all also know that, in order to meet diversity, we must have a motivated, careful staff who work in decent working conditions. For this reason, and with the aim of achieving quality and inclusive public education, it is our duty to support the teaching and educational community from this Parliament, recognizing their work, analysing their reality, adapting existing legislation and improving their working conditions. We can't go on like this, since the new social paradigm...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u8	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u9	...and educational, it forces us to make changes, changes at the structural, normative and labor level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u11	Mr. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Well, I miss the head of the Board of Education in the discussion today, in a matter of this kind of importance. I miss him. I miss it because today we're talking about the collective assistants of education, a new forgotten collective. I don't know what we're talking about. They come into this collective, sign encryption interpreters, physiothepeuts, terapute oupationals, transscriptors, social assistants and specialists of education. Important people, important professionals, to answer that variety we often speak of, to give them this personal attention, but we forget them once more. All of us here say that education is an important one, that education is one of the principal columns of our society, but often, unfortunately, it remains in words and then in daily practice is not to be seen. And with this collective, that's what happens. This collective is one of the most forgotten. It's true there are two debates here today. One of them, Mrs. Juana de Bengochea brought up the discussion with these specialists on a public financed web and the proposal that she brought to solve the situation with these professionals. And another one is what's left on the public net too. And it is like a situation in both of them, financed with public money, but without any continuity, without any attention, and which has been neglected for years. Times have changed, necessity has changed, but we continue to answer an past society, to answer a multiplicity without any change or correspondence. A public network agreement, Covenant, that is in force, is 2004. Look how many years have passed: It's 2004. There was an attempt in 2011. An advance was signed, but two months later the government said, "I can't do it," and dropped the advance. And from that time on, we have a contract that hasn't been renovated. Another question is, what happens in a net financed with public funds, what Mrs. de Bengoche was trying to discuss and discuss today, but then I don't know what happened; in the middle of the term you signed, that theme disappears, it disappears. Then I don't know what you really meant today. And if we really wish to give proper answers to the special wants of the students, if we wish to give them a solution, we must give them a solution, so that they may develop their work as they ought to be, and we must pay attention to everything that is financed by the public money. We have to pay attention to him and, above all, we have to give him answers. Answers that are not today. So, what's going on? Well, in the public network, at least on April 13, unions signed a partial agreement, a basis, a starting-point with the purpose of renewing the combination of 2004. Yeah? That's the goal. But no negotiations have yet been made. We have only a starting-point, a basis, with important matters, with matters which have hitherto been denied to us. It is a good start for negotiation, and whether we really succeed in renewing this agreement from 2004 without renewing it, in order to update the functions of this collective community, and supply the conditions which they require, to give proper answers to those students who need them in their daily life. And the starting point is important. For instance, there are fisiotheopeuts, terapeut ovational and social co-operative equipments. And I'll give you an example: physiotherapeuts, ocupnational therapists, and social pals have the same form as the master-mayors, but they have different contributions. For the first time, at least, they have accepted and confessed to them, whether it is now accomplished, and whether the conviction is considered in the news. The practice of the week will also be determined, though the week still has not been specified! It seems as if the foundations should be placed in some way and the functions are really determined. But what is your concern with the educators on the other side of the net? There's no such thing. And the patriarchal is also this government because he finances almost 100 percent and this government has a responsibility. He must encourage the conversation, he must encourage the negotiations and the functions of these men, the conditions of work must be specified, Mrs. Bengochea, and you have left them in the discussion for today. So, what's the point of arguing? We don't understand. So I think it's important to have the whole picture. Look, these men have not even received the law of the Public School in '93, and have no right to make decisions, but the intervention is easier, but there is no explanation at all. So that another domestic work may be considered in the case of the fundamental agreement, and also in the case of the possible law. It seems to me that our domestic productions in this area are really great, because especially in particular needs, the wants which have hitherto been diagnosed and determined are taken; but the times vary, and are found in the everyday with a number of unidentified and unidentified professors. And the system doesn't count. Should we leave them behind? Or are we really going to make a thorough examination on this subject and be at the size of the times? It seems to us, indeed, that the subject we have in hand is very serious; partly labor conditions, partly functions... All this is signed in a contract, not in regulations. In the word. And then we'll need a Normative development, we'll need them to take the law, make sure that they're in the highest organs, that they're also in the cloisters, voice and voice and so on. for here it seems that we have degrees, don't we? In the whole system, as they are in all society, there are degrees in education, and this is one of the greatest forgotten collective that we think is really worth attention. And that it is worth while, and that is why we have attempted to make our proposal in these two plans, and to make the half-way one in this two plans. One, considering this starting-point of April 13, considering this partial agreement, is to encourage negotiation to promote the settlement of 2004, and, on the other hand, to identify and give proper answers to the necessary needs of a thorough study, and then to give what may be followed by the amount of precise development; and on the other hand, we must also remember this other web, which is financed by public funds, or we give back to a reality of ours, and it seems to us that no one ought to turn his back here when there is less public money at stake, when there is general interest and his fellow-citizens and their future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u13	Gracias, president. In today's plenary, the People's Parliamentary Group brings us a non-legislative proposal for a regulation defining the activity of educational support specialists. We had the opportunity to appear at the Education Commission on 30 May, where representatives of the Platform of Educational Support Specialists appeared to inform us and explain their situation firsthand. This is a platform that brings together educational support specialists from all over Euskadi, from the two educational networks, the public and the concerted. This platform mainly demands that it be defined its functions because, in theory, they are mere assistants of the students of special educational needs, called "educational support specialists", but in practice its task is another. They are not regarded as teachers and also have difficulties in carrying out their work, such as not having non-learning hours or not being able to attend meetings with teachers, Berritzeguns The truth is that the explanations they offered us served us all to have a knowledge of the situation far beyond what they merely put on the paper and to have a certain vision of their work development. The first thing we want to do here, from the Socialist Group, is a recognition of the work and work that these educational support specialists do, develop and carry out day-to-day with many students from various educational centres in Euskadi, because, of course, it does not seem to be an easy task when the work and the relationship between the specialist and the student is aimed at children with so many different and different needs, and that is a reality in which they have to face up to each other day. The reality is that the educational landscape is moving forward and is changing over time. Students who used to demand this support or help are not the same. We can not only think that this modality is demanded by children with autism or Down syndrome, deaf, blind or children with cerebral palsy. Today's reality goes much further; we have a high percentage of foreign students and, above all, this situation occurs in public schools, especially where there is a higher rate of emigration. Those students with a different culture and language, come to the classrooms without knowing anything about Spanish and even less about the second official language we have in the country. They are placed in classrooms where three languages are spoken and almost completely sure that none of them is their mother tongue, and they need that support from specialists, to have someone to help them and teach them in that period of transition and adaptation to their new reality. Even so, it is true that there is a difference between the public network and the concerted network. They are also not recognized as teachers in the public network, although they are entitled to non-formal hours in which the material can be organized and prepared. Educational support specialists do not have the information or file of any student, so their task becomes even more complex by not knowing even the educational level at which they are; they have the difficulty of not knowing the personal reality of each student because it is not facilitated – and this is another of the demands that we made, a claim that the Socialist Group shares and that we understand as logical. They are hired by the Basque Government, even if it is actually the berritzegune berritzegune There are schools that hire staff beyond what is stipulated and that do not enter the grant, and other centres that decide not to hire any more staff and stay with the one they are assigned. And this, in the end, creates an inequality between students with special needs. It is not the same for a specialist to take care of four pupils or for those same pupils to take care of two specialists. The functions and working conditions of the specialist staff are regulated by the collective agreement for teaching and educational staff under the staff of the Department of Education of the Basque Government and, in addition, a joint commission is set up for their interpretation, study and monitoring. It is up to the management of the centre to set the timetables and the control of them, the attendance, the licenses, etc. And, as I have already mentioned, it is the competence of the Berritzeguns. All this is reflected in the instructions of the Innovation Directorate and the Director of Personnel Management for the specialist educational support staff for the 2017-2018 school year. In addition, it reflects that, with regard to the relationship with families, these staff, in collaboration with the teaching team, will inform, within their competence, the legal representatives of the student with the periodicity that is established. Socialists believe that this staff should be given greater value within the educational networks and within the centres to which it belongs, because the truth is that most of its demands are perfectly achievable. And you must also work as a team for the sake of our students. The aim cannot be other than to give priority to the educational quality of children with various disabilities, giving priority to their attention, and above all because we understand that it is our duty to make an inclusive school, not just an integral school. And with this task began, for example, the socialist councillor José Ramón Recalde, who proposed ending the specific special education centers that were then in place and taking them out to schools, thus making an inclusive school. Obviously, this has been everyone's task and merit, to develop this measure and to allow the school to advance in the inclusiveness of the student, and it is our duty to continue with this task. We also know that, fortunately, an agreement has been reached at the sectoral table with the Department of Education: the amendment of the decree establishing the employment relationship of non-teaching workers in support of pupils with special educational needs in the educational centres of Euskadi. This amendment creates 50 new posts, all of which are in the category of educational support specialists who are responsible for the provision of special educational needs to pupils. The 50 new places created are added to the 122 places approved in the 2017 employment report and respond to the path of agreements reached with the trade union representation at the special education negotiating table. These new positions, already structural in nature in the workforce, which is important, can be offered in future public job offers of the Department of Education. I therefore believe that, even if it is not the whole of what is being demanded, the amendment we are going to adopt today is good agreement and good news for this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief of departments, members of the legislature. First of all, I would like to say that this point was received as the fifth point of the subject order, and that it was at the last minute or last week that it was changed to the first point. So I know the chief physician would be here, and I know that if that change hadn't been there, and I know he's committed to the subject. Don't doubt it, Mrs. Ubera. We're working on the practice of the specialists for education aid today, and when we talk about this subject, I can't stress the agreement that the Board of Education and the majority of the unions on the table of special education can guarantee deep improvements in the conditions of laborers. It was signed on April 13th, as I have said, three weeks ago; this agreement will certainly work on the improvement of the quality of the service. Lastly, the unions of LAB, STEKS and Comissions Oblations, all of them having 70% of their delegation, have signed an agreement with the Board of Education. This arrangement, in other words, leads us to improve the conditions of labour with students working with special education needs. Mrs. García problemombe has mentioned some of the improvements of the agreement, some of which were also received in the corrections introduced by her party, and some of these corrections, at least, have been given an answer by this agreement. As well as Mrs. Ubera has said that the government forgets the collective members of the professionals during her participation, but the others are to be distinguished in the improvements of the week's work, by the offer of public employment, by lowering the list of jobs, by adapting the social profession, and by confessing the categories of occult physiotype and physiotheraputututian. So he doesn't forget those collectives, always improving them, he's always taking steps. As I have said, these vicissitudes, and the rest, are immediately applied, as soon as the agreement is published in the Basque Country Authority. This agreement of the negotiations with special education was made in March, the Child Schools are added to those which had been obtained in parts and kitchens at the tables of the laundresses. Again, it will be remarked that the importance of making deals with negotiation and unions is indispensable. The negotiations thus made, and the negotiations which had been made, have enabled them to approach their position at a distance from the beginning. This is a union table conversation and negotiation with tools that make possible improvement in the conditions of work, so that at the same time the quality of the service which is offered to society is increased. It seemed to be a couple of months ago that there was no solution and the settlements were out, but there was an agreement between the different unions and the unions, and we believe this agreement is a very good one. As I said in Basque, the work done and the negotiations carried out have allowed us to bring some positions initially far apart. Dialogue and negotiation at the various trade union tables are the tools that make it possible to agree on job improvements, which in turn result in a higher quality of service that is provided to society. And between different compounds, it improves exactly the conditions and conditions of educational aid. This agreement is good for improving the working conditions of educational support professionals, as he said in Basque, and it benefits the quality of the education system. This is the way in which we have to continue working, "through dialogue," said Councilwoman Uriarte in relation to the agreement. We must highlight the importance of negotiating and reaching agreements with the trade union side. Dialogue and negotiation at the various trade union tables are the tools that make it possible to agree on job improvements that in turn lead to a higher quality of service to society. And so the representative of the Popula team, Mrs De Bengochea, has spoken of the work of specialists for education aid and of necessity, and I shall never repeat them again. I'd like to show out the work of these professionals and thank you for taking advantage of this moment too. As he said, the possibility of these professionals has been sought, and by this like proposition. In this way you understand that our teams were the same as the proposed party, and that in the arrangement mentioned, and in the other roles of specialists for educational aid, we believe that the admission to-day is entirely compatible with the spirit of the application. The proposal went to a particular subject. At least our team tried to concentrate on it, even the Socialist Group and the Popular Group. We believe that Mrs. Ubera has gone so far from the direction, that they and the Podemos are both admitted or agreed in the intermediate proposition. It seems like it's never enough for EH Collect. What you asked for in the corrections, the first point, is done with April's agreement. The first point of this agreement has been completed, and the second point which you entered in your middle has disappeared in the agreement signed with Podemos. That request doesn't show. So what are you looking for? No, no, no; I don't mean to say that it's something to congratulate you on, but at least it's a good mark, don't you? And today's day is perfect for that. And instead of going to that, you've changed your course. It's never enough! So we can't take the half-way between the Podemos and the Basque People in the United States together, and we defend the half-way agreed by Populars and Socialist groups, although there's always a margage to improve the conditions of all the professionals in all education camps, and there's a lot of collective, but today we're going around the educational specialists and we're going to focus on it and focus on it, and that's why we'll protect it because it's the center of today. Thou hast changed direction, but wholly, and we think that our middle course unites the demands and needs of these professionals better. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u17	Well, let's see. Our group is going to try, especially on this subject, I think in general, not to make cross reproaches, because you put, because you take away, because you don't know what, because you don't know how much... It seems to us that this is the right thing to do, and more so on this subject in which I believe that there is a common purpose at heart. I will try to explain some of the criticisms that have been made to us. We are told that we have not talked about other specialists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, etc. Let's see, why is this? Because at the moment it seems to us that putting too many situations in the same bag can harm the treatment, but, of course, our group is offering, as it can be no less, to study the case studies of these other groups and not to leave them aside. Now, in our opinion, today he was playing educational support specialists and we do not want to dilute his case in many other problems that exist and that we will have to solve one by one. We have also been criticized for not having dealt with the more serious situation of educational support specialists in the concerted centres, which is true. We did not put this situation in the resolutive part, we put it in the explanatory part as another example, but what is certain is that in the discussions that are under way it is very difficult that in this case, when dealing with employment situations within the framework of the new convention, differences can be made. Why can't differences be made? Because it's not like the teachers. Educational support specialists are all hired by the Basque Government and I really have enough esteem for trade unions to know that in these negotiations they are not going to negotiate a double path, they are going to negotiate with a single employer for a single collective. It would be sad, I would draw much attention, for the unions to sit down and negotiate about workers who are hired directly by the Basque Government, go to the public network or go to the concerted network, and for those unions to be able to make two groups, these better and these worse... No, no, Of course, we give you all the reason. In other words, a 2004 convention is still in force, as it is, at least, shocking, for not putting a stronger adjective. It's shocking. Let's hope he's in the middle of negotiations. It seems that the April agreement opens the way for a joint table at which these issues are to be discussed. But I do not want to apologize for not having dealt with the subject of the convention. I don't want to because we in our non-law proposal pick up the professional demands that the collective presented. They did not present in their appearance neither labor demands nor demands of technical conditions, working conditions in part. No, no, they were much more generous. What they asked us to do is to attend to the professional difficulties they had in order to do their job better. And our non-law proposal meets that expectation that we were raised. And of course, welcome, not welcome, well found at last after so many years is the agreement when it is signed. An agreement that I do not believe discriminates against the same group of workers hired by the same employer. I don't think so. But here, our group is dealing with professional conditions. We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation and monitor the budgets for the coming year so that it will truly be provided with the sufficient amount in the budget line to make the professional conditions better. And then in chapter I, of course, whatever comes out of the convention, let us hope that it will arrive soon and that it will be satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u18	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Together represent Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u19	It is quite clear that there is a consensus on the need to recognize educators and support educators, educational support specialists, and I understand that this is an issue where all parliamentary groups come to a consensus. However, Mrs De Bengoechea, I am curious that you have spent in your initial GNP asking for recognition for educational support specialists and you have ended up signing a compromise amendment with the parties that support the Government, recognizing the role of the Administration, which is taking steps, as we have already said in our initial speech, but it is your responsibility. And that change from its initial GNP to the amendment that it has finally signed we do not understand and we do not understand how it has changed in such a short time. In addition, you are constantly talking about the demands that a group presented at a hearing on 30 May in the Committee on Education, a number of professional conditions. We do not know that from the public network that platform exists, that it is neither real nor constituted... So we do not understand or recognize... even though we can share some of the issues that were clearly said in that Commission. I think it is very clear that for us it is very important that the objective – and this is also reflected in the compromise amendment that we have signed with EH Bildu, and we are also grateful for it – because we are starting out that there is a consensus, there is a need and there is an attempt to agree on the part of all the groups, it is clear that what we do not understand is that in the end, Mrs De Bengoechea, you ended up signing with the Government something that has nothing to do with what you presented. That's why we focused a lot on the first point, which had to do with the recognition of the essential work of educational support professionals, as educators, to ensure a truly inclusive Basque school – we made it very clear in our previous speech that we talked about "include", not "encrusting", because it seems that we don't need to change a model, and we understand that we do." And above all, we had an impact on the second point of the amendment that we have had, which talked about continuing to work on improving the quality of service of educational support specialists and their working conditions with the aim, with the aim, and here the crux of the question, of renewing the 2004 convention within the framework of the agreement of the negotiating table of the collective agreement of the teaching and educational workers of the Department of Education, dated 13 April 2018. It is clear that steps have been taken, but we understand that more steps need to be taken, and that we need to go and that we need to set out as a concrete objective. Not going on, not going on. That is, of course, we have recognized from the outset that steps have been taken, but we believe that concrete steps must be taken, and that in order for us to have reached an agreement and to have signed the proposals that you had made, you had to specify that the objective is the renewal of the 2004 Convention. We believe that that is the fundamental question. That is why we, as I have already explained quite well, have signed this proposal. We think it's the right one. We are also very, very sorry, because in my case I personally know the reality of these people and believe that their work is indisputable, I believe that their work is essential; I believe that, moreover, it is a collective that is completely invisible and that is very necessary for all people with specific needs. We therefore regret that you did not wish to sign this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u21	I really don't know whether it's a matter of not knowing or not not to know, or if it's really a consensus, that's an excuse for not looking for an agreement, because we're referring to the basis signed on April 13th, a partial agreement, but that's not an agreement, it's not an agreement, it's just an agreement from a starting-point, because it's due to the negotiation of the professors struggle. After all, I don't know if we realize that the government is moving if it has a pressure and the teachers are moving. I don't know how we're all going to warn you, and we're supposed to reflect on it without pressure that we can't defend our interests. I think we should think about it. And we make this basis of reference, and we don't spread the territory, and we don't even include any more collective ones. I have mentioned the collectives which are introduced into the agreement which you speak of, and those which enter not more or less. And I thought, really, we'd get together on this one thing today, we'd get a unanimous deal. And the point, even if it wasn't mine, I really did move, I've made a suggestion, and, well, there'll be some people here who'll know what's happened or what interests they are. But what we have clearly is that we must defend the interests of the people, and above all those which are most required, and which are for different reasons in a different degree, do we not? And here we have a special responsibility, and that's why the public system has to guarantee rights, it has to offer a protection, and that's why we have a public education system. What's going on? Besides public money... Well, we still have the network we have, but what we fund with public money, which we fund with public money, we can't look the other way. And this government wanted to look the other way, she said it was no responsibility. And whatever is financed by public funds is his responsibility. And here, if there are students in the centre, if the citizens are what we have in the centre, there are those who are educated in the centre, we must all answer them. And we can't fund the public money and look the other way. We can't do that. We must make a step, there must be a control, and we must certainly guarantee that the rights of these workers are guaranteed, and we must guarantee that the functions are well defined, and that the needs of the students are satisfied, and that an answer is given, because it is made with public money. And you can't play with public money. You can't play it, don't you? So, now, with the reality we've got, with all the networks we have, so long as we don't arrange it... And we should sort it out, fix the conflicts we have, release the knots, sort them. We'd win a lot, we'd win a lot, we'd be even more efficient in management. And it seems to me, too, that we should be more effective in giving answers, and I think we ought to do this pretended arrangement even at that time: to a single network, to a single public network, to keep what he wants out of doors, all the world the same rights, the same duties; But to answer the responsibilities we're going to be responsible for, knowing the responsibility of each one, the privilege of which in the middle, no doubt, the public system must be public, because our response is direct and our responsibility is direct, but without avoiding other responsibilities and without playing with the public money. And we think there's a debt to this collective that's historical. And not only because of collective, but because at this moment the weakest eye of society is somewhere, because we're leaving it behind, and we're not actually giving the answers that we ought to give. Then I'd take a reflection, and I'd certainly bet and make sure to renew the 2004 contract on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, from there, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u23	Yes, from the seat, if I may. Man, I think I have to say that there were, and I still think, enough limbs to have been able to forge a big deal on this issue today, right? And we deeply regret that this has not been possible, because beyond the cross of criticism from one group to another, I believe that there is a common fund in the initiative, because here we have not come to talk about all the problems of education, but about a specific problem, and I believe that, in this regard, in the recognition and improvement of the working conditions of educational specialists, there was a virtually unanimous consensus. And, therefore, I regret that it was not possible, but, in any case, it seems to us that the agreement that is expected to be adopted here today is an agreement that in any case is beneficial to this collective and objectively improves its situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u25	Thank you, ma'am, for once again, very briefly. Mrs García Larrimbe, of course we must continue to take steps. That is the end of the Government. Always. But one step after another, now you just give one and the next will be the one you are preparing, in which you are working. Now he's going for the next one, but where? At the negotiating table, that's the forum, that's what it is for, and that's why we have to sit down and talk, and unfortunately, there are some and some who are not ready for it yet. We share Mrs Bengoechea's and Mr Pastor's reflections on the fact that today we are dealing with a specific and specific issue because, indeed, if we open the debate in the whole field of education, it is actually diluted, and we do not come to anything effective or concrete. I therefore say again that we believe that today's agreement is good. Mrs. Ubera, I really wouldn't want to come in. You worked. You moved. We worked and moved! But what it is not worth to say is that the contributions will be made, and then to express them as a contribution, coloquialmente. And I really miss something else, Mrs. Ubera. What about the deal? All the teams who participated have said that the agreement is a good one, that the 13th of April has been distinguished by the Basque People, not the United States. What about the deal? You guys don't like this deal? [[Berber]] Yes, but it's all over again and it's agreed to 70% of the education union unions. Doesn't it look good in the Basque Country? Or is he having a problem with a union? At least let's make a difference! I didn't say "happiness"; at least make a difference! We've all done it. It's a good deal, but it looks like the Basque People don't like them. I don't know what you're looking for with all this, but at least we're relaxed. We think it's a good deal, both April 13 and today, and, as I said, we're still working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-class correction that the Eunciists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u27	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary teams made, to cancel the 9/2012 Decret of January 31. Discipline and final resolution. We're next to the proposed team, representing the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u28	Good morning again. First, I want to welcome the members of the Jumping Teachers' Association, who have come near their own home today, and who have come near them, there are some people outside, and others are coming in, agreeing to welcome the members of the community, and to thank them for the work they are doing in defence of their temporal rights, because they are defending their rights in the middle of politics, because they are defending the rights of the community, and all of them defending the policy. And they're being exemplary because they're showing that they're fighting, that they have to defend their rights by work, without staying at home, with constancy... And it's easy to say, but they're working from 2012 to ask for what's related to 2012 to protect their rights. And it seems to me today that the values in society are really grateful to the work they're doing. So we who are here are doing something wrong, only when we move, when we are pressed, or when the proclamations go out into the street, are we not? I'm not going to notice the status of the responsibility. We do not wish to banish ours, because we have all our cares, but we feel that it is a matter of deliberation. Are we not able to place individuals in the centre of politics without pressure? Well, if we move when we're pressed, it's not bad, but it's our duty to defend people's rights. That's what we think. And it appears to us that our duty is to defend and execute the public system, which is also the guarantee of the rights of citizens, and the rights of public workmen, who build it in their own time. For the Right is one thing, and the Right is another; and to-day we are speaking of Rights, and not Priviledges. In 2012, by a decree, we are referring to the rights of compensations which had been paid by the retired teachers under the pretext of the preventive, deficit limitation, and expense control. In order to be more specific, we speak of a member who is already about to disappear. It is true that there have also been several other restrictions (which belong to the faculty ofromen, which belongs to the bajei, to the opposition of the Relebo), but we have discussed it in the foregoing meetings, so that when the professors are present, I shall refer to the rights of compensation which they are voluntarily rewarded. We've never understood the Chinese and we still don't understand why, in the name of the budget, the reduced, the rights of workers, and the public system. And the others, the public workers who support the public system. Why don't you put down cuts on the budget, for instance, on high-speed train, in gigantic infrastructure? ...and protect people's rights? Why not? It's another option. It's a possibility. It's a matter of priorities, it's a matter of political will. Because the workers are the weakest eyes in the chain eye? Because the management of public functions has no cost in public opinion for the bad reputation of the workers of the public function? How many times have we heard that the officials are vain, that they are privileged... therefore it seems to some that the object of public service may be easy to aim at. It appears also that there are degrees in the public function, that there are gradations, and the collective we are speaking of is one of the greatest forgotten. We've spoken of another collective, and, by chance, it's another collective one that's still in education. Why do we say this? They're slowly putting things down on the table so that they can turn so much down on the table, and others have also been burnt up, for instance, a special fee. Other things, for instance, have been restored to the question. But I don't know why this subject is hiding and not sitting on the general table. We don't really know what's going on here. Then we shall see in the general table what is going on with other matters, but what happens with this subject is truly surprising. We know that among the members of the professors there are different methods of jubilation, and we think that they ought to be equalized, and that we have asked more than once and then we will continue to demand. And even in education class, it seems, it's a matter of negotiation. But all this does not take away the rights due to the retired scholars, to return to them by right, and to determine a way for that purpose, and agree with those who have been injured. That's what they're asking for. What they're asking is a negotiation, agreeing, paying what they owe, keeping a right. That's all. We know that this member, damaged by the subject we are talking about today, is about to disappear, we know, but is that why he won't be paid to those who are already retired? Because he's a collective on the verge of destruction? I don't know, I don't know what the problem is really deep down here. Then what happens here? Even the data that the Public Functions and the Education Department gives us are not the same, they don't count. The Board of Education says we're speaking of a teacher 2.873, the Erkoe section says we're talking about teacher 3.200. I don't know that even in a very serious government it's not the same data. Is that the reference to a good manager, that he is not able to give precise and combined data too? This also shows how, at the present moment, it is necessary to produce a change of generation in the public and in teaching, when there is to be a preparation, even when there is to be a prerogative. This also shows the circumstances in which this government is placed in making predictions or plannings. Then we don't know exactly what they are, or whether we don't want to know how many they are, or how it can be done by a changing and planned generation. Or to make a real change of generation, which is interested in this government, in the public system which guarantees the rights to maintain conditions as required. When we brought in our proposal, it was our purpose, and it's our goal and it keeps going, and that's what we're going to work for, opening the gates to the negotiation. With members of the member who are injured, this government will negotiate a negotiation and open a road on the way up on the way up, they are ready to pay you the hardest dues and pay for the damages. It seems possible, or we thought it might be possible, and today it would be easy to find the consent of a mouth, from what we heard. For, on the one hand, we argued at the conference in front of us, and heard from the representatives of the spokes of the Government, that the decrees already applied are about to overcome, and that negotiations are also being granted to overcome... Thus, to overcome one more reason, to pay and fulfil it, though we see what we doubt. And on the other hand, when the members of the community were at the Board of Education, we even thought it possible to find an agreement. And so, when we made our proposal, we were at the minimum of minimum heard, because we all wanted to suspend this decree, and we said, "Bueno, let's go and ask for it, it's like there's a meeting here, and from that point we're going to provoke the negotiation." But then we started to see the corrections, to listen to the excuses, and to demand suspension is not enough for us to be able to raise the suspense. Another man, I don't know why it's possible. Then we don't really know what's going on. I mean, there's no will, no excuses or if there's a will, and it's a negotiation that wants to be carried on. We want to think it's the second one. Besides, all this is in the case of non-masters who have been paid for voluntary indemnizations in councils, farms, and other places, even in college. That's what's happening. So why shouldn't we do the same thing with these people, or why should not this government do the same thing? So, we don't know what kind of trouble that's about being turned over by the decree, or going back to some restrictions, because, as I said, it looks like it's willing to agree to a calendar when this collective group is ready, to make it progressively, study and direct it. So what's the problem? I want to ask. What's the problem? What's the problem when the chief member who supports the government in 2012 had the same discussion in the 2012, in this conference on March 15th, 2012, and the principal side that supports the government agreed. He agreed to pay real compensations for what we're discussing today, to guarantee the rights. So now, when he was in opposition, he had the will, and now when he is in the government, has he no will?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u30	Egun where we're supposed to be. Welcome, also to the group of retired teachers, also on behalf of our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos. The compromise that we have reached, which is presumably to be adopted by this Parliament this morning, aims to repeal the decree that Mrs Ubera has spoken of. A decree that involved a series of cuts in the labour rights of public workers. In addition, we proposed, through our amendment, to urge the Government to submit a plan so that the non-university teachers who have already retired, after that decree of cuts, can recover the financial amounts they have ceased to receive with that cut. That Decree 9/2012 was a decree approved by the then socialist government of Patxi López, a decree of cuts that was framed in a series of policies that were implementing different governments, both in Basquedi and in the whole state, as well as in different countries, with justification or with the excuse of the economic crisis. An economic crisis of the capitalist system, which of course we had not generated the workers, but which was faced by governments with a series of policies dictated precisely by those working in international organizations in the service of the interests of capital and also in the service of those who had generated the crisis itself. This cut, through Decree 9/2012, was reflected in a number of loss of rights, including the loss of the complements to temporary incapacity, a historical claim of the working class and that for the case of this group had already been conquered; it meant the loss of compensation for early retirement, for retirement at the age of 60, a measure that allows the public system to guarantee a renewal of the public workforce and better working conditions, because also a timely retirement is an improvement of the conditions of the workers, and it was also charged with one thing that seems very important to me to be the partial retirement with a relief contract, which was also a historic achievement at the time and which for our parliamentary group is very important because it is one of those measures that come to divide the employment of which we usually talk. These cuts through that decree were made with the famous justification of these policies, which theoretically sought to reduce the public deficit by fundamentally cutting social rights, by cutting public services and by cutting the rights of workers, both in the private and public sectors. Policies that have been implemented by different governments, by the Socialist Government of Zapatero, then by the People's Government, throughout the State, but also here have been implemented, first, by the Government of Patxi López and, then, by the Government of Mr Iñigo Urkullu. To such an extent these policies which, as you all know, have reformed our Constitution overnight, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in the middle of the summer, precisely in order to be able to push forward these kinds of policies. And that is within the framework of the adoption of that decree which this Parliament is going to urge to repeal again today, because this Parliament, in 2012 itself, called for its repeal. A decree, moreover, that involved the breaking of the agreements with the unions that had already been signed in 2010 and that was done behind the back of the unions, without negotiating with the unions, and, also, against the majority opinion, as said, of this Parliament, which approved the repeal of that decree. He approved it with the votes among others of Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, of comrade Mikel Arana, who was then in this Parliament, and therefore our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos, will continue to maintain the same position that we held then, by repealing that decree, which involves cuts in the rights of the workers. And I will draw attention to the position of the Basque Nationalist Party because it seems to us a hypocritical position, because at that time, as Mrs Ubera has already explained, they were in the opposition and voted to urge the Government to repeal that decree; then they have acceded to the Government, they have maintained the cuts of that decree and today, ruling in coalition with the Basque Socialist Party, they continue to keep those cuts. And, therefore, that seems to us a hypocritical attitude. We think that if they really believed what they voted for, they should have already repealed that decree and also negotiated the return of the amounts not charged by the teachers. We think, of course, that if we had arguments in 2012 to say that this decree should not be put into effect and that it should be repealed, we think that today, if we can, we have many more arguments, because one of the excuses for which the Government, then of the Socialist Party, adopted that decree was precisely that it was a temporary measure, a result of the economic problems of the crisis, that there was not enough budget and that we all had to tighten our belts and, in this case, that these public workers had to tighten their belts. And today we know, and they tell us, that we are emerging from the crisis; we know that gross domestic product is growing; they tell us that public revenue has increased, and they tell us that we are on the right track, economically speaking. So, what is the justification for maintaining a measure that was already presented to us as a temporary measure because of the crisis? In our view, there is no possible justification. We believe that the joint amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party is not the initiative that this Parliament needs to adopt, first of all, because it practically refers only to one of the parts of those cuts to which that decree came into play and we think that, out of dignity, we must repeal that decree which involved a series of general cuts. Secondly, because they call for a future budget availability and that leaves the Government free to tell us in the future, in the forthcoming budgets, that there is no budget availability because the priorities for the Government can be others and, therefore, even if that initiative proposed today by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi is approved, it could be absolutely wet and it would not be worth it at all. And in addition and above all, also because it does not include retroactivity. That is to say, the majority of teachers who have retired in these years would surely not receive the amounts that were a right that was cut unilaterally by a government with the excuse of the crisis that we have supposedly already overcome. That is why we do not think it is a timely amendment. It seems to us that the compromise that we have reached from the opposition groups, with all our ideological diversity, is the initiative that this Parliament has to adopt and that is what it is today. And I will also draw attention to one last issue that concerns us. Although this GNP is approved, we have sufficient background to suspect the government's willingness to comply with Parliament's agreement because, as we have already said, this Parliament has already approved that the decree should be repealed and different governments – first of the Socialist Party, after the Basque Nationalist Party and now the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party with the Socialist Party – have been deaf to that parliamentary mandate. And, therefore, we have no guarantee that, although we approve this today, the Basque Government will listen to us, and that is why we use it to tell the Basque Government, to ask the Basque Government in this sitting to listen to what the parliamentary majority of this Parliament approves today, that it does not deny the will of a majority of a Parliament representing the Basque voters. We ask you to attend to what is approved today and to put an end to these cuts that we think should never be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greetings to those affected by the matter that brings us here today. I think we have to make some history, why we're here. And it should be remembered that being a socialist government, Law 6/2011, on Budgets for the year 2012, in article 19.11, established by amendment in the process of those budgets that "the rights of officials will be suspended", theoretically for that year. And this would develop through a decree. This decree, which was adopted by the socialist government of the time on 31 January, is Decree 9/2012, which is one of the things that is intended to be deleted at once. Why was this done at the time? At that time – it was 2011, 2012 – tax revenues were falling, we were in the middle of an economic crisis, and this was one of the many measures the government proposed to try to square the budgets. We are not going to defend or say whether the Basque Government's agreements with trade unions are good, bad or mid-pensionist. We have never been in the government, we have never negotiated those conventions that have been negotiated by the governments, basically the Basque Nationalist Party, and the Socialist Party. So, when someone once said, "well, but it's that those rights that were being put on were too many..." Hey, the ones who signed the ones who signed them. That same year, in 2012, there was a motion by Aralar, which was approved, calling for the repeal of that decree. And I want to remind the Basque Nationalist Party that the approach he said was that "it was barbaric that article that was brought into the Budgets Act because, since 1982, the Basque Government had never failed to comply with agreements with the trade unions representing the officials and employees of the Basque Government itself." He even raised an incident, I remember, saying that that was an amendment to the entire budget because that allowed the Basque Government to save money and that money was left out of the budgets. Some of us did not understand that this was the case because, of course, it depended on the decree that the Basque Government then adopted, which was the one that was going to modulate, in some way, let's say, what has been called social cuts. Then came the PNV government, which has maintained it every year; now we are in the PNV-PSE government, which continues to maintain it – the last law is the Budget Law 5/2017 for 2018, in article 19.13. And we do have to say that, in the end, things have changed. And they've changed substantially. We're not in 2011, we're not in 2012; we're in 2018. It is clear that the economy is not the same, it is clear that the Basque Government no longer has the problems it had, which began in 2009 with a 20% drop in collection, we are not in that situation, but we are on the contrary. And we here want to say a couple of things to make it clear, at least from the position of our group. This is not a cut right, as someone has said. These are suspended rights. Suspended is not cancelled, repealed or revoked, nor cut, is suspended, as the one-year overtime was suspended and then recovered during the following years. And therefore, this is a debt that the Basque Government owes to those who have been officials of this Basque Government. It owes, by the way, not accounted for as debt anywhere, but after all it is a right that was suspended for some reasons, these reasons no longer exist, therefore, it is appropriate to return it. This is a debt of the Basque Government, of the Basque Government is governing the one that is governing, but it is that those who are responsible for this situation are governing. And in the proposal we have made, what we have put forward and what we are putting forward, what is it? Let the Basque Government be urged to negotiate with the affected – and the affected are not the unions because the affected are no longer unionised; well, I don't know if they will be unionised, they are retired. That is, the unions obviously do not represent them. You can represent Adostuz or the association they want or ask for. What do we say to the Basque Government? "Listen, sit down and negotiate with them – and, moreover, from what we have talked to them, they are open to making a multi-annual calendar to review the figures and everything that comes up – to reach an agreement and solve this issue." This is what the Government is urged to do in this non-legislative proposal, which feels like negotiating a multi-annual timetable to return those suspended rights, which I think is quite simple and which is quite well understood and which, by the way, affects more than 2,500 people who are already affected, which also seems to us to forget what we are talking about. And if the Government is unable to reach an agreement or to sit down and negotiate, what we urge the Government itself to do is to provide us with a timetable for how it will cancel this debt, because this is a government responsibility, it is not a Parliament's responsibility. Sooner or later, the government will have to return that money. And when we go to the government's amendment it says that "before the end of this legislature and after negotiation with the trade union representation – I have already said that it is not precisely those who represent those affected who are here – and provided that budgetary availability and financial stability allow this." Hey, budget availability. In 2017 we have hit the collection record. Just as in 2009 it was the collection disaster, in 2017 an increase of 11.7% of the planned collection, more than 700 million, without counting the liquidations of the quota. Over 700 million. Data from January to March that the government has sent us, from this year 2018: we have an increase on 2017 of 9.6% increase in collection. It is clear that we are not in 2011 or 2012 and it is clear that budgetary and financial availability, if the Government wishes, exists, because it is even having more revenue than expected to pay expenditure in the budget. Therefore, there is such a financial availability. And what is missing here is whether there really is the political will of the partners of the Basque Government to solve or begin to solve this issue, which is an issue that is getting fat every year. Because, of course, at first it was 200, then 400, then 600, right?, and every year, until it reached the more than 2,500 that are today and the ball grows. There will come a time when it will be over, we know it will be over, and it is possible that even some will die along the way and not be able to collect, but, of course, it is not about that or we understand that it is not about that. And what we're asking the Basque Government is something very simple: listen, don't keep increasing the ball and start putting solutions when you're ready enough to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u34	Good morning. Well, we had the opportunity for all the groups in this House to listen, both in private meetings and in the Committee on Education, to the representatives of Adostuz, whom I take the opportunity to welcome to this plenary, the Association of Non-university Teachers Retired from Euskadi, who told us their concern and denounced the cuts and who, despite everything, at all times have shown their willingness to agree and reach a satisfactory agreement, which I believe is worth highlighting. This begins – a little has already been said, but I want to extend a little on this subject – in 2010, when on 6 July that same year a convention regulating the working conditions of non-university teaching staff was signed, which ended on 31 December 2012. This agreement allowed teachers who were 60 years of age or older, belonging to Muface, to retire and receive compensation which, among other things, had the fundamental objective of favouring generational relief and also to provide compensation for services provided at that time under not exactly easy conditions. To this end, there were a number of requirements that had to be met, such as a certain number of years worked or having been working in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the past ten years. Law 6/2011 of 23 December 2012 on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi contains in its article 19 and in its additional provisions, forecasts with the aim of reducing public expenditure. Most of the measures are the consolidation in 2012 of the wage reduction measures approved by Law 5/2010 of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for 2011, where it reflects that they are suspended in its application for 2012, all agreements, agreements or pacts whose implementation results in a pay increase for the financial year 2012. And it is true, that this measure was taken in the Patxi López government, and we assume the responsibility that belongs to us. At that time, the regulatory agreements or collective agreements on working conditions were amended for staff employed in the general public administration of the Autonomous Community, self-employed bodies and public bodies governed by private law, as well as for public companies and public sector foundations dependent on the latter and also on public sector consortia. Among other things, retirement premiums were suspended, among other suspension measures that were adopted. It is true that this measure struck the non-university teacher who was going to take up voluntary retirement. In addition, this suspension was planned for the year 2012, but it is true that, without apparent justification, it has been extended over the years for a collective which, as was recalled, is a kind of collective to be extinguished, since it was highly valued to which people it refers and those who are still awaiting this premium are already a group of much less importance than the one currently in force, which is two thousand and six hundred and ten. Following this came Royal Decree 20/2012 of 13 July, which abolished during the year 2012 the extraordinary payment of the month of December and the additional payment of the specific supplement or equivalent additional payments of the month of December. With this measure, it is true, that a lot of money was raised, but the problem continued to persist, until it has been extended over time and there are more retirees who claim those rights. On 30 May 2013, the Basque Government regulated the bases for the implementation of partial retirement and the replacement contract in the teaching group, which had previously been suspended and affected the group we are dealing with today. This group is the one that has been most affected and harmed by that decree of 2012. They have been seen in a kind of "nobody's land", because the former were able to collect and those who came after that suspension will be able to receive it, because other collectives have been able to collect retirement benefits and have been recovering some of these rights on a mandatory basis. My group wants to show here my complete willingness to give a solution to this problem, and we understand that it can be given because that right is not suppressed, it has been stressed here too, it is simply suspended. And that suspension should be lifted by collecting the essence of the motion that the Aralar parliamentary group tabled, as has already been recalled in this House, in 2012. It would therefore be appropriate and I would like to stress that they need to sit down and agree at the negotiating table on an approach or a timetable for payments based on the provisions of the current budgetary appropriations or on other factors that may influence it. That was our commitment when these people came to appear on the Education Committee and we want to keep it: lifting that suspension, which is currently in force in the current budgets, and negotiating a payment plan with the duration that is deemed viable. I don't know exactly how much or what procedure and timetables we'd be talking about. – that should correspond to the negotiation process, because we understand the complexity and the difficulties they face from a technical and budgetary point of view – but it seems to us that it would be an important step to start unravelling a situation that has been dragging on since 2012. And I would like to end by thanking the Adostuz partnership for its availability, the work it has done and the courtesy and kindness with which it has treated all the partners, despite the circumstances, and I believe that this spirit of reaching agreements must also have its correspondence on the part of the Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, agree to the members of the association, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today we are discussing, in particular, one of the measures contained in the aforementioned Decree 9/2012 and in the Budget Act that it develops. In particular, the measure relating to voluntary retirement benefits. Our group wants to express in advance, as we did when we met with them and them, the recognition and respect towards the group of non-university public education teachers who retired voluntarily, with particular regard to the members of Adostuz, who are here today. We understand that, like other groups that provide essential public services, their work deserves all social recognition. We cannot question whether they have been discriminated against, discriminated against, as have other collectives who have seen their working conditions changed. Its claim is therefore legitimate, but equally legitimate is the action of the Government, an action presided over by an overall vision of the Basque public service and framed in an economic scenario of budgetary adjustment and necessary prioritization, in which economic resources are finite. And so, our proposals we make, we have made and we make, always from realism and responsibility, and within the legal and budgetary framework, which is not alien to any administration, nor to the administrations that other parties govern or have governed. And therefore, we understand that the realistic, what can be done with rigour, is what we take up in our amendment, which is what we now believe is acceptable. He said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, before the end of this parliamentary term and after negotiations with the trade union representation, to abolish the ban on the receipt of financial benefits on the basis of voluntary retirement, provided that budgetary availability and financial stability permit it". That is to say, we call for the abolition of the prohibition of the receipt of financial benefits on the occasion of voluntary retirement, and under conditions that are feasible, but, first, we set a deadline, a temporary deadline, "before the end of the legislature". It is a maximum of two years and it is important to set a deadline because any major disbursement requires planning. Secondly, we establish as a requirement the prior negotiation, collective bargaining, because it is in the area of collective bargaining where resources are prioritized and, moreover, these compensations derive from an agreement trade union adopted at negotiating tables, with which its recovery must come within it. Thirdly, and as a third condition, we do establish budgetary availability and financial stability, which, as I said, the entire public sector is subject to it, which governs the public sector governed by all parties. We therefore understand that our proposal is a step forward. A step forward in a possible and realistic framework at the moment, which does not effectively close other avenues, as you all know, but, of course, the solution does not come by a non-law proposal and neither does it come through of the compromise amendment that you have signed. Of course we're open to dialogue. We listened. The Government is listening. But we have to move within the budgetary framework which this Parliament approves or which this Parliament has at this time been endowed with or which it is subsequently endowed with. So, indeed, this is one of the unrecovered measures, but many others have been restored thanks to the Government's efforts and commitment, prioritizing and planning, with economic availability and within the legal framework. And when measures have been recovered, measures that have affected as many people as possible, the 70,000 employees and public employees of the Basque Public Administration, have been chosen primarily. Some examples of these measures: contributions to Itzarri have been taken back, remuneration increases that had previously been banned have been taken back, the 2012 Christmas extra pay has been recovered... In particular, in the measures contained in Decree 9/2012, the situation is not that of 2012, the situation has improved substantially. In particular, the relief contract has been recovered. You, Mr Hernandez, have stayed where you were suspended, because the relief contract has recovered. It was recovered thanks to a trade union agreement adopted at the general table, by the way, adopted unanimously, which establishes a partial retirement plan. Time permits have also been recovered due to age and the regulation of IT supplements has been improved, increasing the assumptions in which it becomes up to 100% from day one. And improvements are still being proposed. The initial status of the decree has therefore been improved. It's improveable, of course, but it's improved. A decree to which, as they have expressed, and we do not deny, we opposed, and opposed, the Budgets Act for 2012, which it develops, because we understood that it meant an unprecedented social cut, and we opposed in terms of form and substance, and that is indeed stated in the minutes. When there was economic availability it was banned and, however, then its recovery requires economic availability and a lot of planning. And we understand that the solution also does not come through the repeal of this decree. Firstly, because the situation is not that of 2012 and, secondly, and above all, because this decree develops the budget law mentioned above and, moreover, this prohibition has been successively reflected in the following budget laws, which means that the repeal of this decree has no legal effect, because the obligation derives from the law and not from the decree. As you all know, the only current way to change this situation, the only real way to change this situation, is through a law passed by this Parliament and, in particular, through a budget law or an amendment to it. And of course, not through a non-legislative proposal, and this is known by all the signatories of the transactional amendment and, so far, they have not presented any initiative in the proper form. It is legitimate, of course, to propose the repeal of that decree, of course it is lawful to propose what you have in the amendment, but the truth, the reality, is that it has a very limited course because practical materialisation carries an unaffordable economic cost with the current budgetary framework. With this, we believe that the realistic, the possible, is what is reflected in our amendment and we invite you to adhere to it. That's why we're all gonna protect our own protection. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing in response turn, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u38	Miss Laruri, look, the planning that is done is highly realistic. And that these budgets of seeing would allow a very realistic manner: The fact that these payments are paid would only assume the value of $1,2 of a budget. So it's a matter of political will. And it depends on the government's decision, because here, no matter what we're describing, the opposition teams, the government always seeks an excuse to place a ball in another place. If we propose the negotiation, not the "negation," a law is necessary, if we propose another thing, "no, it's the budget." The problem here is not technical. The problem isn't technical and you've confessed. The question here is the question of political will and of preference, and it seems as if it had no priority for this government, and had no political will to remedy it. Because as he did with other things, he'd fix it. He didn't need a law to recover those rights that have been on the reduction or suspension you've mentioned. There was no need for a law or negotiations. For in the general table the negotiation has not yet been given, and the government has put it on the table is the same as that of Spain. So, few excuses and no traps. "Do not deceive anyone, but be righteous; but above all do not be zealous for yours. We'll do ours and use our tools. It could be appropriate or not. We'll try to make it fit, but what we want is to fix this situation. For, as you have mentioned, it is a matter of preference, and we thank you at least for being honest in it. And the consequence of this privilege is, that, owing to this will, a gradation has been made, and here are the citizens of the first rank, and there are some of the secondary classes, whose rights are denied, and others are allowed privileges. And that's what this government's doing, and then she's using excuses to wear it and make it look better. So please don't deceive anyone! Aren't we all the same? Have we not the same rights and duties? I'm asking. I don't like to run comparisons around different communities, e.g. EH. If this Board of Education comes in first, how is he going to retire? How's he gonna retire? Or in the councils where you rule, or in the farms, what have you done? What did you do to pay for the settlements? What have you done? Why not some people? What's the difference? What's the problem or what's the problem not to comply with the 2012 March deal? What was the problem? Not a technique. It seems, then, to be a matter of will. Let's talk. They have the will and they are ready, a very realistic way of conducting and repairing the matter with the budgets that are in force and all the tools we have, just as other issues have been solved. Look, the argument used to obtain a special fee was that from 2007 to 2016 the liquid cup and financial compensations were afforded by the results of the final settlement. If they gave the chance to do so, why not? Why not? Well, it's a matter of preference, and it's a matter of political will. That's what's in the lobby and deep. So let's be clear, huh? And what we're asking here is to fulfill, to comply with the agreements, to respect this parliament. Respect! It seems to me that if the Government were to maintain this legislature and the laws and the agreements here and there, this government would win by legitimate means, and that we should all win by legitimateness and credit, euscal institutions. And this is what we demand: I'm just filling it up. And then, look, I, the shades that are there-and so on. If it's at the end of suspense, and that doesn't come back, it's a cut. It's just a constraint. And here we can use words and use shades, but in the end we know what are injured: the eternal, the people. And here it is clear that there are gradations, primary and secondary. And you mention, I've heard over and over again that the Decret of 9/2012 was suspended for some time. Well, if it was suspended for some time, it's time to get it back. And if we were to act here methodically, we would gain more, because some of us are judged for consistency, and we all are tried there to improve in consistency, but we think it's time and time to take a step, because it's a chance, because technically there's no problem with budgets. So let's change the priorities and go to build a different society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u40	No, I do not like to argue about language and everyone will use theirs, but when rights are suspended and, beyond that, when the lifting of the suspension of those rights is not done retroactively in respect of economic quantities that a working group has lost, it is a cut. But beyond this, well, I'm worried to hear that the solution is not going to come from a non-law proposition. Okay, the solution is not going to come from a non-legislative proposal, nor from ours or its amendment, because the solution, indeed, has to be given by the Government, but the Government will have to give a solution to this matter. Yes, the government will have to resolve this issue, it is its responsibility, but it will have to do so by listening to Parliament, I say. And non-legislative proposals have that function, among other things, to urge the Basque Government to do a number of things. It seems to me to say in Parliament that the solutions to the problems that arise or that the parliamentary groups bring to the House are not going to come from Parliament's parliamentary initiatives, because it is absolutely devaluing Parliament's work and turning it into a theatre, where we come to stage certain positions and it is already there. And it seems to me that Parliament should be something other than a simple theatre. It seems to me that when the groups, in this case the proposing group, bring or bring initiatives urging the Government, they are to pressure the Government to do things that we believe are the ones that have to be done. And at the moment there is a parliamentary majority that has agreed on a compromise, a parliamentary majority, in addition, quite heterogeneous. We have the People's Party, EH Bildu and the parties of my Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, indeed. But we have agreed on a compromise with a number of demands, which also come from the affected group and which are fair. And if the problem is of economic quantities, as has been said here, and, above all, of paying those economic amounts lost over time, there is no problem, Mrs Larrauri, there is no problem, because precisely those concerned have said that they are willing to negotiate, and in the initiative, in the compromise that is being presented, we are talking about time plans. And, therefore, that amount of money that has been cut to them, that has been cut to them, and that we intend to put an end to that cut and that it is returned, that can be negotiated and that it can be returned in time, if that is the problem. And, therefore, we say that the amendment you are proposing is not appropriate and that is not what we have to adopt today. Firstly, because, as I said before, it is not going to have retroactive effects and therefore there is no guarantee that these amounts will be recovered. Secondly, because it seems to us that they leave their hands absolutely open to the Government to tell us in the budgets that there are other priorities and that there is no budget available. And there is a contradiction, because I have heard here today that we are no longer in the situation of 2012, that we are in a better situation, but at the same time I have heard that we are, in his mouth, in a framework, I think he has said, "economic adjustment" – I do not know exactly the expression he has used. So, we do not agree: if the collection has increased, if the GDP increases, that is, the wealth of the country increases, why do we have to keep this cut to a working collective? The compromise that has been reached from the opposition is the initiative that this Parliament should adopt today and which is going to approve and, therefore, what we now have to do, at least from my group, is to repeat what I said earlier: to ask the Basque Government not to devalue the role of the Parliament, which is a representative House and therefore not to ignore what the majority of the citizens' representatives are going to decide today in this House, to pay attention to what is going to be approved, to put the pile in place and to seek the solution, which is being proposed. And yes, with the negotiation. Our initiative also talks about negotiations, with those concerned and also with trade union agents, with whom this government does not have the very best of relations at the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u42	The truth is that I hear Mr Pastor and it seems that we agree, with which I do not understand how we are going to vote for different things. And I hear Mrs. Larrauri and... We already know that a non-law proposal is not going to fix anything and more if the government does not want to. We also know that it is not enough to repeal the decree, which is why we also call for the amendment of the law that gives protection to that decree in the proposal that we have tabled and that we have negotiated. I will also remind you that from the outset we have proposed to you to negotiate and agree on something to the Government, and it seems that it is not very possible. But, according to Mrs Larrauri, your amendment calls for the suspension to be abolished. Listen, if your amendment says that, although I do not read it, we stop right now and come to an agreement and a compromise, because I read your amendment and I do not see that, but if you meant that the suspension should be lifted and when there is budgetary availability, I have understood you that everything is paid at once, everything that is due from before, right? We stop right now, ask for a recess and sign a transaction, if that's what I've understood from you in your speech that you're willing to do... What happens is that someone used to say that words are such... Words have their importance, and more on a subject like this. Why? Because, curiously, the Government's amendment does not say that "the suspension is abolished"; it says that "the prohibition on the collection of compensation is abolished". And since when was there a ban? Where's that ban? Why does it say "ban" instead of "suspension"? With word games you can play to say one thing, to say another or to say the opposite. I had not seen during these years in this area that no one spoke of prohibition, except in this amendment by the groups supporting the Government. And what I have to understand is that they're saying that in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 and 2018 there's been a ban on collecting those compensations, when it's not true. It is because I read your amendment and I understand the opposite of what you have said to me, so I tell you that I remain with what you have said to us, we stop right now, we come to an agreement, because in addition the people concerned are the biggest interested in the government reaching an agreement to solve their problem. And we can all do so by unanimity. I listened to both of you carefully and it seemed to me that we agreed, because let's stop and fix it, and come to an agreement. Let's come to an agreement, if the government's approach is to lift the suspension, not the ban, and pay all at once... Man, we were proposing that an agreement be reached on a multi-annual timetable, that the government reach that agreement because better than the government no one will know what the timetable is to do it in the best possible way, but if his approach is to pay all at once... Hey, I'm not going to be the one to object. Although I do not deduce it from your amendment, but if what you have both told us here is really what you are proposing, what I propose is that we reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u44	Okay. I think we've all started a similar analysis here, haven't we? And I would say that a window of opportunity to open negotiations with the Government has been opened today, which did not exist so far. And I think it is the most important part of what has been discussed here today. Because, on the other hand, each and every one of the political representatives we are in Parliament, all of them have expressed their compression and their support for the demands of this group of pensioners now, not workers. Therefore, if there is a shared political will from the PNV to Bildu, passing through Podemos, the PP and the Socialist Party, to give a solution to this problem, since today the opportunity has been opened to open a negotiation, for let us put ourselves to it, but let us not wait at the end of the legislature to put ourselves to it. Since these meetings and negotiations with the trade unions, as well as with representatives, are to be initiated or should be initiated, let us now begin to establish the channels to enable an agreement to resolve this problem. That is to say, I want to understand that what we have done here by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group has been done with good will, to try to provide a way of solving the problem and, well, since I believe that is so, we will use that way to give it content and make it come true. And I think that we should all, the Government too, start that negotiating ground with this collective.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u46	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Dialogue and negotiation, of course, within the budgetary framework that this Parliament is endowed with. And you say you respect Parliament, you respect Parliament, because there are many kinds of parliamentary initiatives, non-legislative proposals and legislative proposals. Indeed, to ask for this which you want today, to modify this, it takes a proposal of law and not a proposal of law. We absolutely respect all Parliament's initiatives, and so does the Government, but things require their proper form. And you were talking about minimums and maximums. The least we're all at is lifting the suspension. And the maximum is your compromise amendment. You didn't give in to that maximum. How is an agreement possible if there is no assignment in those ceilings? It's impossible to make a deal. And you say that the only possible solution, that it is absolutely clear that here there must be retroactivity, that there is no other. Curiously enough, in October 2017, the High Court of Justice handed down a judgment giving the Government the reason for an appeal by one of the parties concerned, in which it said, "the competent legislator – the competent legislator, this Parliament –, where appropriate, when deciding to lift the suspension, will decide whether it will be only in the future or with retroactive effect". Therefore, it is not so clear or it is not the only option that is with retroactive effects. And collective bargaining; you say, "Of course, it is not in collective bargaining", "general meals, no, because they are not"; others, "no, of course"... The reality is that they have not included collective bargaining in their amendment. Sometimes you are shown as leaders of collective bargaining and, however, when you are not interested do not name it. And, once again, we believe that they have brought this initiative to launch another collective into the government for partisan interests. It weighs me that there is a collective behind it, but, of course, so far, they have not brought any initiative in the way, at the time and in the way in which it is due and that is to generate false expectations. The only instrument that can change this, as I have told you, is a law and a budget law, and you when the draft budget law was brought here, EH Bildu and the People's Party did not submit amendments. They'd have other priorities. You said, Mrs Ubera, "it will be a matter of priority." You would have other priorities because you did not take it as an amendment. The only one who picked it up as an amendment, it's true, you have to recognize it, it was Elkarrekin Podemos. However, he made an amendment to the article which, without establishing the mode of implementation, without saying where to put it here, with which the truth is that it was without much rigour. And with the compromise amendment, they say "that a payment plan be collected from future budgets." In future budgets... From the People's Party, well, but are you going to approve a future budget for this government? Are you going to approve this part alone? What would they do, partial budget approval? Are you going to approve a budget for this government? The truth is, it's a surprise. Or is that going to be the only condition? Or isn't that going to be the condition? We don't know. And as far as lifting the suspension is concerned, it must also be done in a budget law. What are you going to do, too? Are you going to pass the budget law? Or are they just going to approve budget changes to budget laws? That, of course, is showing very little courage. And you on the first shift said, Mr. Hernández, "hypocritical." Hypocritical is that, that position, yours is hypocritical. And the People's Party comes today as a savior of this collective, but well, as you said, you approved this ban, you were the necessary collaborators to remove this, you would know why you decided to remove it from here; I don't know if it didn't seem like a lot of money at that time, it seemed to you that it wasn't fair, I don't know, but you were the necessary collaborators. And year after year you have been approving or supporting the budgets that have continued to collect this, so don't throw balls out, and also, recently, four months ago, you have approved a budget that collected this. And as for the retroactive effects, that, of course, is the position that most draws attention to the PP. The other day, two weeks ago, we had a debate here about the 5% recovery, and a fellow member of your group said, "It's barbarity," said Bildu, "because it's impossible, it's absolutely bad to come to protect workers' rights and ask for something that's materially impossible." That is the position of the People's Party two weeks ago, that is, when it is for 100% of the Basque public service, but if it is only for a collective, yes, even if it costs the same: 200 million euros. 200 million euros only in education from 2012 to 2017, not counting the following exercises, and that is an estimate that the government technicians have made; not like you two weeks ago, a pen ball calculation from the seat. Therefore, be responsible all of you and propose it, in your case, through the appropriate instrument, of the budget law for Euskadi, because so far, some, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, have had no courage to pass any budget law, and the others, the People's Party, will have had other priorities...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u47	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u48	, andreak: We and we, as always, will act responsibly. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. End of discussion, we'll vote for EHG, together with the middle-direction that the Podemos and Euscal Populars have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u50	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. [[Applause]] Third point in theme list: "Information of the Common-wealth against the Force of Genero. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u51	Yes, good morning, everyone. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From Elkarrekin We can drive this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u52	Please, all silence, please. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u53	Thank you. From Elkarrekin We can promote this initiative with the aim of helping to expand the protection of the rights of women victims and survivors of machist violence. This initiative was registered a few weeks ago, but my defense and my reflections, they will allow me, are obviously going through what has happened in the last few days. I'm going to try to sort myself out, but first I'd like to say loud and clear that if I believe you, I believe you, and if you play one, we all do. In 2017, Congress agreed on a state pact against gender-based violence, which contains a battery of more than 200 measures to strengthen and improve intervention aimed at preventing and eradicating violence against women. Everyone knows the abstention of United We can to this pact. Through this vote it was intended to state that policies that mean progress, at least, in protecting the rights of women in situations of sexist violence will never be impeded, but it was also intended to show that this pact was insufficient and was not up to the point of this time. It was wanted to show that there was an opportunity to broaden the look and protection of rights; there was an opportunity to update policies of gender equality and violence, but it was not intended to take advantage of the moment. The justification for the abstention can be found in four points. The first, the measures did not contain temporary or legislative economic guarantees for implementation. The subcommission agreed to call for a minimum financial commitment of 1 billion to be allocated among all State administrations to five financial years, but the compromise was not achieved. In fact, 217 days have passed since the adoption of the pact and it has not yet been launched. Secondly, this pact does not incorporate equality policies that guarantee prevention in order to change the macho society in which we live. Thirdly, women and feminist groups were also not allowed to participate as they do in other bodies, such as the UN or the Council of Europe. Finally, this pact does not incorporate a feminist approach that goes beyond the conceptual and legislative framework of the Organic Law 1/2004 on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. On this last point, I share with you a reflection to open the exchange on this occasion or in future instances in which we deal with the violence of the Machist. These days we have witnessed a case and a court ruling that deserves deep reflection, and calm and responsible debates in the legislative sphere. In our view, the development and outcome of this case might have been different if from the very beginning, from all the institutions that intervened, it would have been covered as a case of macho violence. And we think that not all institutions have intervened from that point of view. Because the following is the case: at present, only cases of partner or ex-partner violence are considered to be gender-based violence in Organic Law 1/2004. Only these cases have access to specialized courts, with trained professionals in the field. Although there is still a great deal of work to be done, as we were able to see in our visit to the specialized courts in Bilbao from this Parliament's Committee on Labour and Justice, they can nevertheless be more guarantors for women than other multi-matter courts, which may lack due specialisation, because they are not required. Exceeding the conceptual and legislative framework of Organic Law 1/2004 would have meant that the pact recognizes all manifestations of macho violence, in addition to that exercised by couples or ex-partners; it would have been an opportunity to develop new measures and prevent the recurrence of failures that have struck the recognized rights and freedoms of all women. As in the case of Nagore Laffage, which was not considered to be gender-based violence in a very restrictive regulatory framework, it was therefore not analysed with due specialisation in this area. Or as the recent case known as the herd's trial The extension of the conceptual framework involves recognizing that these were cases of gender-based violence and would have required specialized coverage in this area at all institutional levels and, of course, in the judicial sphere. Because there is much to analyze in a calm way in the recent second case, but what we have no doubt is that the arguments of the ruling are completely devoid of a gender perspective. They are far from the recommendations of the Istanbul Protocol, and in light of the reflections and contributions of the feminist academy in this area. Lack of training and specialization. Of course, it is a reflection out loud, but, in addition to the necessary declarations and accessions, we believe that it deserves and corresponds to a responsible reflection and exchange of views to all and to all who are entrusted with the task in the legislative sphere. Returning to the state pact, he told them that abstention was a way of expressing disagreement with the missed opportunity. However, even with the aforementioned limitations, we see the pact as another tool that can be useful in expanding the protection of rights and freedoms. In addition to lighting up new tools, we need to spark out what already exists and is in force, and everything that is identified as positive contributions to extend rights protection is welcome. In December, the Sectoral Conference on Equality was convened, and the State Pact for all Autonomous Communities was approved. The 26 measures to start implementing in 2018 were identified. Among the battery of measures proposed in the state pact may be some that are already being implemented in Euskadi, others that can be adapted to the particularities of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and also those that give us the opportunity to open new lines of action in this field. The notable increase in complaints registered in 2017, the latest feminicides, the judge of Vitoria –the one who asked whether she closed her legs properly or closed the whole part of the female organs – or the judgment of the herd We believe that we are at a critical and transitional moment, we are facing a window of opportunity, both because of what has been proposed by the Basque feminist movement, which is consolidated, strong and leading a new political agenda that covers all sectors, and because of the fact that a bill on sexist violence is being drafted, along with the updating of the Equality Act. Therefore, we believe that in order to spark this pact, it is necessary to start by making a study of the contrast between the state pact and measures against the machista violence existing in Euskadi and then to design an implementation plan within the autonomous, foral and local competition framework, especially in all those measures that contribute to the expansion, improvement or strengthening of policies for prevention, early detection, care, protection and reparation in situations of machista violence. Let us spark this pact and all the tools in force, but above all let us learn from the mistakes. We must not lose opportunities, because reality demands it and because we are at a time when there are many conditions for a calm and responsible debate in this Parliament. We have shared concerns, we have commitment, we have will, pioneering proposals from the Basque feminist movement, open process of drafting a bill, of a reform of the RGI... Let's make the most of it and get sparks out of it. From Elkarrekin We can continue to work for the open debate between all of us, and in all sectors, from a feminist conceptual framework, because it is the only one that highlights the depth and complexity of this systematic violation of human rights. We will continue to work hard and with a strong hand to unite wills, so that absolutely no opportunity is lost to extend the protection of women's rights. The initiative we are bringing today and the agreement we have reached is another example. We welcome it and recognize the efforts of all for having reached this agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u54	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, she has the word of House Barriet, the representative of the EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u55	Good noon, everyone. Today, I could make a good text. I tried to prepare a few words for yesterday in front of my computer, and while I was doing that, my mind was quite moved, because in two weeks we had been robbed of four women from the Basque Country. "Got it, fourth woman! "I don't know. Yesterday he killed another woman and killed himself after his husband had shot him. And in front of that I could make a fine text, one more time when I could bring in the data today, we could talk about how hard the violence against women is, because they're on the line... But it didn't work out, it didn't come out. I have come to you with a scheme, on the one hand, because we have a deal, and that makes us so happy, but from great anger, from a point of despair, I assure you, that four women have been murdered for two weeks, because last week some judges have told us that they can do what they want with us. And in front of that, what can I say? Yeah, we got a good deal, we're working, we're fighting machista violence, and today's deal is so obvious, but we're still dying! I know it'll be repeated a thousand times, but I don't know if we realize, I know that we understand, because at these times we're in front of each other. And this is not my normal style, this is my usual way of talking, but I can't talk differently. Four fewer women in the Basque Country within two weeks! The feminist movement, at least, is showing itself, and the company of euscals shows that he has an awful ability to answer all these wrongs: We have been in the street before the Unjust Sentences; we have been in the street on the 1st of May, in the calling of the majority of Basques, about the murdered woman; we have been in the street, and we shall have to remain in the streets unhappily. And they're showing us that we're showing a whole movement of preparedness and response, and that we have to work with them. We have to hit the police, we can't go on like this. Tremenda Jauriak absten du "that we are the herd because we fight, we are the herd because we have each other and we are the herd because we care." And I want to be the institution that's going to take care of, that's going to be next door and held by the hand of that whole movement. And we have good laws in our hands, and we have protocols that are not in our hands, but which have already produced some results; but we are often unfortunately not able to fill all that we have on paper. Maybe we should stop thinking and start talking for a moment. We need budgets to develop all that, we need budgets to place women's lives in the centre of life. How much does a woman's life cost? We can't put a price on it and we're setting it up. We must place the development of all this violence on the first step. I'll finish because I can't say much more. I'm glad we're still working together, and we're going to have to work together because we don't need Diabola radical policies, because we need radical changes and, even with agreements and disorders, we're going to keep working. But I want to finish today telling you I'm gonna defend my sister. Against wolves, against attacks, against violence, I will defend my sister against justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Even today, in the name of the Popula Party, we wish to express our commitment with all victims and all of our memory. We have discussed the violence of women several times during the whole meeting, even at the committee, and we must say that we have generally made a great deal of agreement between them all. There have sometimes been some differences, but in general we must say that we have obtained extensive agreements. And today it has been possible to get the deal back on this important subject. We have discussed on many occasions on gender-based violence, and today again we are discussing an initiative brought to this House by the Elkarrekin Podemos group. We can say that in all the initiatives, in which we have also reached agreements almost unanimously, progress has been made. Advances to ensure that public resources are managed more efficiently, the resources allocated to equality policies; to also strengthen victim support programmes; and, also, today, it is true that as the agreement and the original initiative made more reference to the state pact reached in relation to policies to be implemented in successive years in relation to the eradication of gender violence, we have not introduced a forecast in this regard, but as there is an agreement in this House, I would like to remind you, and above all I would like to remind you that this Government, we hope this time, will fulfil the commitments made, no longer just in the legislative timetable, but the commitment to the transmission of a bill for the eradication of gender violence in the first quarter of 2018. That is to say, let us hope that this time the Basque Government will be able to fulfil its commitments, the agreements of Parliament and, above all, the most important thing, which it respects to this Parliament. And let us not see any distasteful trifles, of the last moment, which, of course, show a lack of respect for this House and for the groups we are represented in this House. That is why my first appeal to the Basque Government to refer to the Basque Parliament the bill it has undertaken to refer to and to which the Lehendakari has so often referred. And as the lehendakari also reminded us the other day that it differs very well and that one of its constant intentions is to differentiate between what is party, government and Parliament, because the story of this government really applies and it really sends back the initiatives that it has committed itself to forward. With regard to the State Pact signed by virtually all groups in the Congress of Deputies, all actions related to assistance, protection and support for victims of gender-based violence are reinforced at three levels: state, autonomous and local. Priority areas for action include awareness-raising, prevention, improvement of institutional response, improvement of assistance, assistance, protection of victims, as well as children, promotion of training of actors involved in the whole process of caring for victims of gender-based violence, statistical follow-up and recommendations to different public administrations. We all know, and as Mrs Arana has rightly said and reminded us, that this pact links different administrations. Not only the State Administration, but also the Autonomous Administration and the Local Administration. And in this regard, we also need to highlight the contribution that the autonomous communities are going to have, which is going to be greater the funding they are going to get compared to 2017 and, in particular, they are going to have an additional funding of 4,248 million euros. The difference with previous years, in relation to the preparation of these 2018 budgets, is obviously that we have a more favourable economic scenario, a growth rate that allows us to consolidate a social cut budget, with accumulated or repeated growth over the last 17 months. The budget for combating gender-based violence is being increased, as a result of this commitment of the State Pact, which, as I said earlier, links not only the State Administration, but also other administrations. The budget of the Government Delegation for Gender Violence is increased by 24.61 per cent, more than the initial forecast of the state pact, which was 20 per cent. More than half of the protection policies go to the Ministry of the Interior, with 38.1 million euros, matching police spaces, where victims are treated. And also in Justice we have specific items for women's violence courts, assessment units and free legal aid. In the Department of Employment there is also another important amount; and it also goes into action programmes for the comprehensive prevention of gender-based violence, which increase the allocations to reach 40 million euros, 24% more than 2017; also including credits for transfers to the autonomous communities amounting to 10 million euros; and for families and non-profit institutions. Another important issue is that there is funding for electronic devices, compliance with removal measures, awareness-raising campaigns to prevent different forms of violence, and the online platform for training professionals, which was another point in the State Pact against Gender Violence. Finally, two things. We are glad that despite the fact that the Podemos group at the end abstained in the vote on the state pact in the Congress of Deputies, because, well, it considered it opportune, and I believe that it has finally welcomed the broad consensus reached and the possibility of analysing this state pact against gender-based violence. within the competencies that we have autonomous, foral and local. And that a plan of implementation can be drawn up and that this analysis also leads to points that can be incorporated, in specific aspects such as the prevention, care, protection, reparation and eradication of these violences, violence against women, and violence against women, in the next bill, that we hope will arrive when it has to arrive and that the Basque Government will fulfil its commitments. And also, and I conclude, let us hope that the Basque Government will also be in a hurry to fulfil the commitments that it is in non-compliance to date, Mrs Arrizabalaga. Mrs Arrizabalaga, the Government had two specific commitments: the adequacy of the areas of justice and the empowerment of specific spaces for machinery, food and drink. The adequacy of public spaces is intended for victims and minors. These budget items, which have not been approved by the People's Party, in which it has abstained, are still unfulfilled; therefore, the Basque Government has specific powers to allocate resources, to reinforce all the measures that are being implemented and that some, of course, need to be strengthened. In that connection, we once again urge the Basque Government to comply with the budgetary arrangements and to see the implementation of those two headings soon. And that if we really make a commitment to the eradication of violence against women, we have competences and we also want to deepen our self-government, because a very clear and very effective way of deepening that self-government is, of course, by exercising the competences that we have and by implementing the budgetary allocations intended for it. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours. ROJO SOLANA andreak: Yes, thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Garrido, although she has appointed only the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, as the Basque Socialist Party knows, she is also part of the government. And you've got a quilt! Can the People's Party begin its intervention on the State Pact against Gender Violence by saying, "Let us hope that this government will meet the commitments it has made this time; let us hope that this time it will do well to comply with the agreements of this Parliament" and that "tricks are used to fail to comply with them"? I mean, the game says... By the way, that Podemos abstained, at least defended his abstention; you threatened with abstention until the last speech of the spokesman of the People's Party, the day this was discussed, on 24 July, to end up voting in favour – that I am glad, believing that you were voting in favour because you were going to comply with it. They stopped doing it the day after they voted it. You have told us here a film that, like everything else, the film is based on the eyes that see it and the words that count in the summary. And you haven't told the truth about what happened to the state pact. This state pact is backed by 278 votes in favour, a historic result in what has to do with a state pact. With this agreement, one of the country's greatest scourges was expected to become a thing of the past. It was a social, political and institutional cry that, of course, involved all institutions in society. Although some people like to forget, it was the first government of Rodríguez Zapatero that passed the Comprehensive Organic Law against Gender Violence. It was a milestone, one before and one after in terms of legal and public instruments to deal with macho violence. It is an undeniable fact that today there have been laws, initiatives, public or private actions, mobilizations and pressures in all areas. All in all, all helps and pushes forward, but it is also true that we continue to be a sad reference in the numbers of women assaulted and murdered by sexist violence. You could probably conclude with me that gender-based violence is but the most violent and chilling expression of the situation of inequality and discrimination that women still experience because of the mere fact that they are. The state pact, which Mrs Arana brought us here today, despite being born after a lot of work, with much optimism, the one that was that day in the Congress of Deputies, from different political parties, with great intentions, without any negative, in less than a year we find ourselves with a good headline, Mrs Garrido, but empty of budgetary content. With the General Budgets of the State, the expectations of victims, rather than political parties, are frustrated. EUR 120 million is to be committed. You can tell us that, in fact, this affects the state, the autonomy and the municipalities, some putting their money to make initiatives that the Government of Spain said it was going to finance, as is the case, for example, of the Irun City Council. Hence the amendment to the Budgets of the Government of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Congress and the request of the minister of the branch to appear to deal with the issue of non-compliance – application registered on 27 April. By the way, today is the first day that the committee has met since 24 July that this pact was adopted. A clear and unquestionably non-compliance. EUR 1 billion was committed over the first five years, 500 for self-government, 400 for the Government and 100 for municipalities. This agreement was adopted when the approval of the budgets had not yet been closed, but Minister Montserrat said, "The will of the government is that there will be budgets in the coming months of this year, but if there were not, we commit ourselves to changing those of 2017 to include the 200 million item." Sounding words, when the time comes to move from saying to fact, fade. They have an agreement to take out the budgets, but out of the 200 million nothing. Unfortunately, it has not taken many months to reach a negative assessment of compliance with the pact. And in December, just three months later, the People's Party Government still failed to concretely implement the measures that were adopted, and budgetaryly no funds have been increased to combat this scourge. The dimension of sexist violence is overwhelming, and if we expand the concept to what is understood by gender-based violence, extrapolation is shocking. The issue that Mrs Arana has brought us here today is one of freedoms, rights and dignity and democracy. Gender-based violence is the most brutal sign of inequality, because it is directed, as we have said, at women because of the mere fact that they are. And I'm finishing up. We are talking about a state pact that took too long to arrive and too little time to stop being a priority for the Spanish Government. The facts should be other; budget items, in addition to being announced, should appear in the bill. The current situation frustrations, first of all, the victims, their families, and also the majority of society that claims, every day higher, that gender-based violence, sexist terrorism, should be at the forefront of any government's political agenda because politics, in this case too, should be the exercise we should all defend in order to achieve what we say we want to achieve. This pact is political, inter-institutional and, of course, social, because let us not forget that we should listen to the voice of the street to bring the social cry to the institutions. We talk about rights and freedoms, we denounce the violation of human rights, because it is true, as I said, that this pact came late, because this pact was proposed in April 2004, but we cannot allow the vacuum of economic resources under any excuse. Rodríguez Zapatero created an infrastructure based on four axes: prevention, security, justice and reparation. The People's Party government arrived, and the first axis was cut short by the budget. If there is no prevention, how will there be security, justice or reparation? Today we have a state agreement. We must ensure that they are complied with, given their resources, to dignify what we are working on, for society as a whole, but, above all, we should do so for the victims, to whom we should not pay with frustration, mistrust and lies. I belong to a party that is in the Basque government. I too demand that the Basque Government comply with the commitments, but, man, Mrs Garrido, you know perfectly well that this pact was born of a lot of work, of a lot of need for dialogue, but you will have to acknowledge that there is a breach, and I think that policy is worthy of telling the truth. Explain the reasons why there is no budget line, why autonomy is being left without a budget, why there are no concrete measures; because it is very good to make great speeches, to put ourselves in the front row of the banner, but it is that this kind of policy, as it is all, either we have budgets or it will never be a reality. Worst of all, I don't think anything's gonna change. They got what they wanted: there will be general state budgets and although the minister said that what happened to that 200 million was going to happen, I don't know why it gives me that none of this. And by the way, yesterday a news story appeared in the newspaper in which the Government itself recognizes that there is a lack of such a relationship of recidivist aggressors, and that is why there is a lack of security in the face of macho violence. This news comes out after the murder in Burgos. It must be acknowledged by Mr Rajoy's own Government, to a question from the Socialist spokesman, who obviously could not say anything else. The numbers speak, what we have on the streets is not just women, but a society that is sick of what is happening, and it is very good that governments support the demonstrations, let us make great declarations, let us sign institutional declarations, let us sign non-law proposals, but politics is carried out mainly with budgets. So I too hope that the Government will comply, but the first is the Government of Spain, because we are talking about a state pact. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u59	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u60	Thank you, ma'am, again. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all again. Violence is now related to the state agreement in Spain against the Matxist. I want to be the victims left behind by the maxist violence, and I want to confess to this situation our pain and inability, but unfortunately this confession is not enough. No doubt we want to emphasise the importance of the state's state to resist violence against women, because we meet with another step. There will be one more tool of state, as Mrs. Arana said, but unfortunately there are no magic formulas here. The institutions have to keep pushing violence against the machista, but the implication of society is absolutely necessary. Each of us can do a lot of violence on his own field, and we can never forget that. I'm trying to post this message over and over every time I take part in this subject, because I really believe in it, because this is a mutual work, because it's a problem and a responsibility. So it's everybody's need, like I said. Men's as well. The greater explanation of men is necessary, and in this, though there has been a change, and though there is a real complication of more men, yet we still have a long way to do it. The State Pact against Gender Violence, adopted last September in the Courts, and subsequently ratified by the Autonomous Communities and different municipalities, brings together more than 200 measures aimed at eradicating a scourge that has claimed the lives of 918 women and boys since 2003. Without reproaching who voted yes or who abstained in the adoption of this pact, our group in the Congress of Deputies voted affirmatively because we feel strongly committed to any adaptation that serves to take another step in the eradication of macho violence. The director of Emakunde, Izaskun Landaida, participated in the Sectoral Conference on Equality held at the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality in Madrid. The meeting complied with the non-legislative proposal of the Congress of Deputies, which had already adopted the 214 measures contained in the plan and which had to be approved by the Equality Sector. In Euskadi, as in other autonomous communities, structured work has already been carried out, resulting from which various programmes, services and measures have been implemented, so many of the measures proposed by the State Pact are already under way. Although we understand it important to note the coincidence in the analysis of the problem, as well as the identification of future challenges and challenges between the intervening parties. The pact is a tool for further progress in the eradication of macho violence and the construction of a society free of violence against women. We stress the pact that refers to focusing on the control of abusers, from the judicial, police and social point of view, for example. Bilbon, advidez dada existen dira horrelako neuroriak, orentsu martxan jarritakak, bigilantzia hori erasozzailearen gain jartzen den Heuan eta ez biktimaren gain. As I said, these are 214 integrated measures after listening to experts who have appeared in the subcommission on equality. In Euskadi, he said, we have been carrying out a previous, deep and structured work, a result of which different programs, services, measures and actions aimed at addressing violence against women have been implemented. Some of the measures proposed in the compact are already under way, as a result of the work of regular evaluations carried out and organized in different working groups, and the main challenges for the future are also identified. This pact, however, offers Basque a qualitative advance towards the eradication of violence against women, as legislation under Law 1/2004 will be improved; it will guarantee the right of minors, children and daughters of mothers who have suffered this violence to be recognized as victims; it will ensure the training of professionals in reparation, prevention and victim care; it will expand legal resources, comprehensive forensic assessment units, psychosocial teams and meeting points. We understand that there are complex measures to implement and that they will require feasibility studies, new organisational coordination. Territorial differences are a reality, we cannot ignore that, and in this case our group believes that the division of competences is fundamental. This reality must be respected. In Euskadi we have also been working for a long time to coordinate the departments of Security, Justice, Labour, Health, Education, departments all involved in responding to violence against women, with the reference being the collaborative work on standards of quality of care. And the challenges and issues to be addressed in order to further improve, which is the end of these actions, have been identified, the challenge of continuous improvement in care and prevention, always. It is necessary to ensure that the children of victims of violence are also recognized as such. It is one of the measures that we have been most gratefully drawn to our attention. It is an issue that seems to us to be of paramount importance, as well as collecting the different forms of violence and overcoming what the comprehensive law already collected. Our Equality Act of 2005 does have a broader concept, not only of partner or ex-partner violence, and we mean all those contained in the Istanbul Convention as a concept of sexist violence. That's our frame of reference. With regard to the measures contained in that compact, there were some 26 that were identified as urgent. For example, those related to the care and protection of minors, studies on their situation, suspending the visiting regime when children present acts of gender-based violence... Other measures will have to wait a little longer. For example, those related to prevention and awareness at school, teacher training... Well, guk esan beharra daukagu Euskadin 2013. Urtetik aurrera, martxan dugula hezkuntza-systeman Hezkidetza eta Genero Indarkeriaren Prebentzioa Lantzeko Gida Plana, sektore guztietatik heziketa-systema premiaduna baitzen werettzun integral bataea esparru honetatatik, genero indarkeriaren aurrean, aitzindari izana zela giga-plan hau, eta hori ére azpimarratzakoa da gure ustetan. In relation to other measures that must be implemented urgently, for example, that shared custody cannot be imposed on abusive parents or those who are in criminal proceedings or have a restraining order... Well, so egoera hau, adibidez, Legebiltzar honek 2015. Urtean onartutako Zaintza Partekatuko Legean jasota dago. "En cuanto a los protolos de derecion precoz en los centos sanitaris, se pondra en marcha una clave de seguimiento en las clínicas..." The member of the health department has been keeping an eye on him for a long time, the profononal health of Genero Force, which, for instance, has been enabled through the protocol of the program during the year 2016, has been detected in cases of violence. Or, for example, with regard to establishing police units with specific training in gender-based violence that pay attention every day of the year. Well, honetan ere bai, aspaldidinnik Ertzaintzako agentek eta udaltzainek genero-indarkerian formation jasotzen due, prebentzio, aberta eta babesean oinarrituta. Honen inguruan has met with a safe-drinking beret dugu Legebiltzarrean Honen heureko the information ematen. And when you say all this, it's not enough. All this is not enough, and on all these steps, no further steps. We can't afford it. Actually, I was touched by Mrs. Houseboy's involvement. That's not even my speech style. I'm pretty cold, and I always try to give myself straight to the subject, but really it's not enough and it's absolutely unnecessary that I have to share them all. Therefore, the importance of the agreement today, the importance of nobility, and my gratitude. Thank you, mostly, for the representative of Podemos, Mrs. Arana, how easy this arrangement has been this day, I wanted to thank you very much for that. Denbora bukatuko met ez had to bukatu nahi... Nahiz eta hartutako akordioren inguruan nabarmendu nahi nituen puntu batzuk, bainsa Garrido andreari gauza pare batan nahi nizkion. Ez dakit doesn't dagoen Garrido andrea. The government's doing it. The government's doing it. Don't use it as a smokescreen for me. He's the fuck with you! I'm sorry about the term, but... That "the story should be applied by the government," you tell us, and Mrs Red has perfectly explained to you: it is you who should apply the story. The Government of Spain has committed 200 million euros for 2018. "Although there is no agreement in the State's General Budgets," said the minister, and yet no action has been taken since March that was approved. The biggest surprise of all is that the accounts presented by Mr Montoro only cover items amounting to EUR 80 million. And the remaining 120 million, who puts them? And that's what we assume Euskadi doesn't fit into this funding system, because the resources are their own. So don't come to me with smoke curtains! With regard to the commitments entered into, which have been budgeted, by the way, the councilwoman already explained that works have already begun in the courts of Vitoria-Gasteiz. I therefore do not want the Basque Government to comply with its agreements and powers, because of course it does. And skills, the more they transfer us, the better, because the more we fulfill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u62	Good noon again, all of you. Indeed, Mrs Etxebarrieta, four less women. Unfortunately, we are four fewer women, but we will not stop fighting against all these injustices and human rights violations that we suffer from women just because we are. And we must, from the role that occupies us here, live up to what society demands, what the feminist movement demands, what women are demanding of us. What has happened in recent days, in addition to indignation, leaves us with learning. Yesterday Wednesday, without going any further, a debate was held in the Eurocamera on the application in Spain of international standards on sexual violence, a debate that can help to analyze what happened in justice and above all to think about possible solutions. The executive coordinator of the UN organization to promote gender equality, UN Women, made statements. In his view, the ruling amounted to a breach of the clear obligations of States to protect women's rights. The truth is that there seems to be no legislation in the European Union offering a definition of rape or sexual abuse. However, this is done by the Istanbul Convention, ratified by a large part of the member states, which defines it as "any sexual act without consent". If there is no "yes", there is no consent. Only nine countries, however, have criminalized non-consensual sex, and this seems to be one of the problems. Another of the problems identified has to do with the interpretation of laws. Despite being modified, there must be operators and operators of justice prepared to incorporate the gender perspective and make a correct interpretation of it. We have, I repeat, a great opportunity to continue to work, to demand from governments, also from the Basque Government, that they put the necessary resources to eradicate the inequalities and violence that we women suffer, and that we never again have to cry a loss, so that we never again have to repent in the face of an unjust sentence. We also need to be consistent when we support governments that do little or nothing for sexist violence. And also, Mrs Red, when we support budgets in Euskadi that are not enough. We made a proposal – I don't know if it was agreed – for the 2018 budgets and the PSE voted against an extension of the budget. I would like, we would like all of us, for everything that is being said here in these speeches to be really translated into concrete measures, to be really translated into concrete budgets and sufficient to eradicate Machist violence. Listening to the streets is up to all of us here. It is up to us not to support budgets that do not have a gender perspective, and here they are being supported, or that do not have the resources, I repeat, necessary to eradicate this structural problem, which is inequality and violence suffered by women. Let us be serious, that there are also insufficient budgets here. They're called 0.11%. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u63	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Mrs. Houseboy doesn't have to talk. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Basque Potula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u64	Well, I, of course, and this group, will be left with the positive and the progress that this agreement represents in relation to specific policies and in being able to incorporate the measures that can be positive and that can have a fit within our inter-institutional framework, which will undoubtedly be many. But I'd like to say a few things. Of course, Mrs Red, when it was absolutely impossible, it was to increase public resources for social policies, it was when the People's Party government found the unemployment that was found, when it found the deficit that was found, when it was found that for each new social security contributor three jobs were destroyed – now six are created – when pensions were frozen or when civil servants' salaries were lowered. So, of course, social spending was not increasing. Otherwise, it was shrinking. And even the Socialist Party had the sad honor of being the first party to freeze pensions to pensioners for the first time and also on that salary reduction to civil servants. Look, there is no doubt that greater efforts could be made. Man, I am also surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party and Mrs Arrizabalaga are talking about criticism, in this case, of the Government of Spain when you have had the opportunity in a budgetary negotiation also to incorporate those amendments to increase those items that seemed to you insufficient. He could have brought some related to the victims of gender-based violence. They have not been so, they have focused on another group, that of pensioners, which is very well, but, of course, the victims of gender-based violence in the State General Budgets have not been given the slightest attention. So, everyone's theirs and things in their place. I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party must also be told what it is like. I would like to recall that since 2011 protection of victims has been increased; administrative and jurisdictional instruments have been strengthened; new offences have been established in the Criminal Code; the Victims of Crime Statute has been adopted, with new rights for all victims; minors have been made visible for the first time as victims, with access to care services; the competence of the courts of violence against women has been expanded, and new coordination instruments have been established. More measures: a call for aid has been set up for companies and entities between 30 and 250 people to finance equality plans because, in the end, gender-based violence and machista violence are also closely related to equality issues; a badge of equality has been established in the company, recognition of companies that stand out for their equality policies, the web-based equality company.es; the paternity permit has been increased; the supplement of maternity pensions for women with two or more children has been increased; a comprehensive plan to combat trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation has been approved; a plan for equal opportunities and gender-based violence 2014-2016, which, by the way, Mrs. Rojo, carries the largest budget allocation in history: EUR 127 million with 124 measures. Of course, Zapatero did not approve any plans with these budgetary appropriations. And also the adoption of the National Strategy for the Eradication of Violence against Women. And look, yes it is true, it has been a small lapse not to quote you in the first intervention, because the Basque Socialist Party is part of the Basque Government, but it is no longer that it is part of the Basque Government, that the Labour Councillor, because I will leave it in with the Labour Councillor, because of course it has to do with budgetary commitments in the area of justice because it has met very little. I have given you the example of two specific items aimed at combating violence against women: the adequacy – by the way, Mrs Arrizabalaga, it was not of the Vitoria courts, it was of the Bilbao courts – has not yet been executed any euro of that item. The same applies to the provision of sourcing machines for people, especially children and family members, who are accompanying victims of gender-based violence in these areas. Therefore, of course, here is an effort on the part of the Basque Government and the adviser to the branch, who is, by the way, of the Socialist Party, nothing; in any case, to highlight the effort, sensitivity and work of all public workers. That must be highlighted. And look at the commitments of the Basque Nationalist Party, because given the shameful spectacle – and I am glad that the lehendakari is here at the moment because I did not have the opportunity to tell him; I do not know if he has seen the recording – last Friday, where this government had the political defeat, because we have to describe it this way, to fail to fulfil the commitment to forward a bill that was committed in the legislative calendar, which on several occasions the lehendakari has committed himself in this forum and in certain forums to forward it to this House, we witness the shameful spectacle that two groups, which support the government, by the way, present an initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u65	Well, Mrs Garrido, it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u66	Yeah, I'm gonna finish. It does have to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u67	No, your time is up. Look, either you're out of time or you don't go that way. Whatever you want. It has nothing to do with the subject. Look, it has nothing to do with the subject. That's what you said that you didn't tell him last week, because now you're not supposed to tell him. Or you want to go on with the subject...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u68	Let us hope that this Government will comply. And in this case, since there is a commitment to a bill to forward it at this session, this time a bill is referred, and no bill is referred, which by the way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u69	Yes, your time is up. Mrs Garrido, your time is up. Your time is up. All right, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u70	Yes, Madam President. It seems to me to be an absolutely partisan exercise that you have just done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u71	Your time is up. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u72	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Garrido, it's just that in the end I would seem much smarter and more honest, when someone does something wrong or stops doing something to recognize it, which is also nothing, but reality is not invented. And I'm going to tell you: you wanted to attack the Socialist Party by messing with the councilwoman who bears the responsibility for Justice. You, the People's Party. And it says all the bad things that this justice adviser has done, the same party as when Mr Zapatero brought the first law, voted against having tried specialized gender violence, which, by the way, is the same party that now asks one more in Bizkaia for specialized trial. All coherence. And I'm going to tell you more: it's that on November 15, 2017, that is, before yesterday, the People's Party in the Senate blocks victims of gender-based violence from having free legal aid. Man, Mrs. Garrido! I just want to say: reality is one and the votes we each give in institutions are who they are. So, check out what your party does before you pretend to mess with a counselor, who I think is doing what you have to do. And besides, you applaud when you say the subject of specialized courts. Then don't be brave! I've told you before, "Wood," now I think it's "value." And then, you, who are very amateurs, for everything worth Mr Zapatero, for everything – one day I told Mr Barrio that if he had not existed, you would have invented it – and, then, for this it is also Mr Zapatero's fault. And it seems to me that you've made an equalization, man, unrighteous. Talking about the subject of male-based violence, or male-based terrorism, or gender-based violence, linking this to social policies... It's just that women are not social politics. We are talking about rights, freedoms and citizenship. It is the difference between what we understand from a left-wing and progressive party, and what a conservative party, such as the People's Party, understands. They don't believe it, Mrs. Garrido, and they sign pacts not to keep them. And I don't know who with this budget, when you knew you weren't going to put a hard on. And I'm going to tell you more – because of these gestures that you're doing to me when I look at you – and I'm going to tell you, the Socialist Party has made many mistakes, and this MP on more than one occasion has recognized my party's mistakes – the difference between you and me – because I belong to a party that doesn't do everything right. I'd miss more! And less bad that we were wrong. And I'll tell you, when the Socialist Party puts on the table a right for women, the People's Party will be arriving to take 10 steps back: you presented the recourse to Mr. Zapatero's Equality Act of 2007; you put on a recourse to the Homosexual Marriage Act, which talked about freedoms and rights in 2012; and you, in this very good labor reform, which you said had so great results, with such sleek data that Mr. Zapatero left, you know perfectly well that you reduced the conciliation measures to women; and there was a train, which was called the freedom train, in 2014, that thanks to him Mr. Gallardon had to withdraw a bill for the reform of the Abortion Law, which was also a right for women. So, look, the story is one, Mrs. Garrido, one. And the People's Party will have done things, which I don't say no, because whoever rules and manages also does things, but what I won't allow him to do is meddle with my party in what has to do with equality policy towards women. I'm sorry to tell you, because Mr. Zapatero would probably do wrong, but I think that in what it has to do with rights, freedoms and equality policies, come on, you don't get it, I don't say it on the ankle anymore, or below! And as someone says I have a lot of respect for, the one who comes from behind that tie. But, of course, the minister, who said that although the PNV will not approve the State's General Budgets, would already modify what she had to make those 200 million a reality, was lying, because they do not believe it, because they believe that the policy of equality is second, because they still believe that it is a Mary. And it's very easy to come to the rostrum and tell us here a series of lies and try to disguise reality, but it's much easier to talk behind you and lay down every single thing you've said as a lie. And finally, I'll tell you, that law, which was a milestone of Mr Zapatero – which by the way, you also voted in favour, which came out unanimously – said it was a marketing operation. Well, to be a marketing operation, it goes that you didn't take note of the subject. Look, Mrs Garrido, and to conclude, in the first round the issue of the herd's sentence has been discussed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u73	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Finally, Eucariats. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, the issue of pensioners is a prior agreement, we will see what the negotiation remains, if any. Anyway I wanted to repeat it again, if it has not become clear to you at the first point or if I did not know it – it is not attending to me, but well, I tell you, the financing system does not affect us here in Euskadi, we do not enter into the distribution, because the financing is own. Okay? Therefore, we understand that such issues should not be dealt with. In relation to what the Councillor for Labour and Justice commented on in the previous plenary session, we have just seen the transcript, read it, Mrs Garrido, she said "10 proceedings at the Palais de Justice in Vitoria", and in relation to the bill for the eradication of violence against women, it is covered in the legislative calendar. So, I repeat to you again, I repeat to you, this is a serious Government and this is a serious Government that fulfils. And you know it, but you knew today's point was going to be very hard for you and your group, and you've thought, "well, a good attack is a good defense," but all you've got is that, with the data that Mrs. Red has brought you, you're blushing here today because, really, as far as equality policies, you're not about to breastfeed. And the truth is, honestly, I think this wasn't touching today, this wasn't touching today. You wanted to get him out here, I repeat again, because something you had to hide or some guilt you would have and you came here to attack to defend yourself. Too bad, it wasn't the day for this, but it's what's there and take it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popular, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and the Eucalists, and the Middle Amendment we have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u76	So unanimously accept the half-directional correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Gune up your proposition as the parliamentary band made, Arba, Bizia, and Gipu for the hydraulic rupture (Facing) Team proposeer's turn. If EHG is the representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero has the word to introduce and defend the initiative. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u77	Good noon, everyone. I must begin by telling you that I swear to you that my intention was by no means in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u78	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u79	...Franking fracing So it's not nice, and, I know, you're a lot of repetitions here, and some of you're gonna be up to the club anyway. But it is also true in this January, 2018, that the Constitutional Court has given its final decision, and here the law was admitted to be in a state of uncertainty, although the Spanish Government has not taken the whole of its appeal. The proposal we bring today. Seeing the law as it stopped today, at least it's up to us to do a politically confirmation on one side. I've been living this most personally because outside of the Facking fracing. We can say But with this remarkable prediction, there were also some suspects, and several individuals, many groups, various agencies, various unions, began to move several sides in the fracing failure. I think it was there, though it was different from some and others to get into society, when I was just about to say this, that when I was just about to ask the people about it, the people had forgotten about it, and that it had been a popular movement from that point of view. It's just that for years there's been a conflict, "Facing failure." This superiority, therefore, which might have been at the beginning of the crowd, began to become contrarietude or opposition, and this was made in a year or so clearly seen in the march on October 6th, 2012. The opposition was much greater than it was supposed, and this encouraged the movement of the people to come here with a legislator of the people. This law comes from there and that's important to say. It was intended to enter the 2013th, but on account of an initiative which came from the General Assembly of the Arabs, the subject might have been repeated, or might have been rejected, and came here in the year of 2014. In the meantime, you have to say that, too, the fracing failure is coming. The question is that in September 13th, 2014, the "Franking No" movement includes the signature of 1030,000 and figs, and, of course, the public opposition was already complete, and it was already quite difficult to stand against it. And again, that in many other places they were unanimously allowed other laws, &c.: Singing, Ferrixian, socialists, and so on. Although Spanish Government fracing I also think it's important to say that the Constitutional Court had abandoned the laws given in the Renaissance and Navarro, and that when the law came in here for discussion, 2014 and 2015, it was a question that you should have discussed a great deal of refinement, and that we, in spite of ourselves, should not allow the Constitution of the Court to be abandoned by the Federal Court. One. That you have to play the strategic environmental evaluation in the fracing. Number two. There was a vulnerability in the aculife feature map. So we called him "la vetle defensa," or "tribe protection," and it was accepted. It must be said that the American Party, the Socialist Party, and the Basque People were admitted to vote for the Union and had no vote at all. But the law was accepted, but in the year of 2016, the appeal of the Spanish Government reached the Constitutional Court and began to change things. The law was put out for a while, and five months later, but we've been waiting there till now, haven't we? And you have to say that, too, in 2030 parts, the fracing franchise was worth 2030. But it is true also that I have seen him in the Constitutional Court, and that I have learned to defend the law introduced from the legislature by lawyers, and that he sent reports not only to defend constitutionality, but only to defend the franchise, but to the failure of the franchise. The resolution, therefore, has come in the year of the dynx and resolution, leaves some kind of technical training to the Constitution, and removes from these three protections a protection, which was perhaps the most important for us, the equivalent of the operations of Catalonia, and is fracing on irruptible soil. Eta gero – and this is a bit of the top –, that is, another of the things that annuls the Constitutional is no longer a precept of the law but a definition of the Law. When we say in the law that methane hydrates buried in the sea are non-conventional resources, the Constitutional comes and says, "Oh, my God! What you want is to define what non-conventional resources are, get into the sea and break the principle of territoriality." Well, in any case, one part of the law is invalidated but another part is not. Then what we say is: Now what, right? Now what? On the one hand, this initiative. And I'm glad today because I think we've made a big deal, and if I'm not mistaken, it'll come out unanimously. Here we are making demands, a political engagement is determined to take a turn to the acceleration map of the aquaphysiques, which probably has aged, and which, perhaps, we have this hope, at least this protection field will increase. And he's already passed the Constitutional Court. It would, therefore, be absolutely meetable. In this sense also I thank the Government, and in this respect the Socialist Party, as far as he is in his department, with no doubt the engagement he will take to examine it. But, as in our last reflection, it seems to me that we ought to say, and that when this happens to us again and again, it is from our point of view that the limits of Spain are unacceptable. And this has to be underlined. So far this law, and that's why I've made the whole course, a law that came from a popular movement, and after it's been difficult, there's a movement that's got a social hegemony, I don't know how to say it, but it's enough for Madrid to be able to stop us from doing it. The motion which has modified the will of political parties by drop, and which does not seem right to us; for if this question were really under the jurisdiction of the Basque People, we could almost conclude this matter, because the opposition is still very remarkable. And we see what the polls do in the surrounding world say over and over again: the opposition of the people remains. And it seems to us, that whilst the State ordains the limits of our regulating, they will always remain, because there is a law, a Spaniard, Ley del Sector de Hidrobbros, and finally this is because of the legal arrangement that the laws are to protect our environment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u80	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u81	Yes, right away. ...to protect environment by laws or the ability to accomplish this development, in respect of the Luzoru Law, before the Laws of the Water, and the planning of the Lands. Therefore, it is because of the agreement we have made today, but it is also a matter of concern that we shall happen over and over again, until this state is not changed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In 2015, during this parliamentary law, fracing failures We welcome the consensus that will take place today in the vote on the initial proposal by EH Bildu. We believe that it is in line with the spirit advocated by Law 6/2015, a law driven by 100,000 signatures, by 100,000 people in this country, and that it was intended to protect our environment from the harm that fracking fracking could cause. It is bad because it uses hundreds of harmful chemicals, because these harmful chemicals are injected into the ground and cause toxic fluids to come out of that subsoil, toxic fluids that come in the form of air pollution, in the form of greenhouse gases, which increase emissions by up to 30% in relation to, for example, the use of coal, and it is harmful and bad because it causes water pollution, causes methane pollution and all those chemicals that we have used. We are pleased, we welcome, that there is a consensus on that pollution, on that damage, and on the need to protect our aquifers, our drinking water and the health of people living in the territory. So we celebrate our agreement. We're all here now, we're all today, we're all in this parliament of law. It is necessary that this consensus that we already have today on fracking fracking And we would like those consensuss to be possible and we would like us to be able to reach those consensuss, and our group will continue to make progress in that direction, in the consensus that what we need is not to continue to bet on obsolete energies like gas, we get it with fracking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u85	Yes, thank you, President. Well, indeed, the subject of fracking And politically, at that time there was no vote against – there were abstentions – but today this initiative comes out unanimously, which I believe denotes the point in common that the parliamentary groups in this House defend in relation to the hydraulic fracture. I therefore believe that the position of all political parties on fracking Therefore, after listening to Mr Otero's chronology and explanation, I am not going to reproduce the arguments, fears and concerns we had throughout the work process until the vote on that law is over. The difference that exists today with regard to other debates on this issue is the ruling of the Constitutional Court on this unconstitutionality appeal. This appeal was against Articles 2, 3, 5 and 6, the first and second transitional provision of Law 6/2015 of 30 June, and that is where I think we should focus today. On the one hand, as I said, it is important to recognize that the sentence does not invalidate the whole law. I therefore believe that we have done a good job in drafting and translating the specific articles into the law, and we have learned, perhaps, from the judgments of other autonomous communities, especially I believe from Catalan. It is necessary to highlight the constitutional validity that the Court has granted to article 5 of the Basque Fracking Act Thus, article 29.1 of Act No. 1/2006 of the Water Act is drafted, supplemented and validated as follows: "Any activity or use which may directly or indirectly cause the pollution or degradation of surface and groundwater, transitional and coastal, associated ecosystems and their environment, and in particular the direct or indirect dumping of water and waste products, liquids, solids or of any kind, unless Ura's prior and express administrative authorisation and without prejudice to any other legally required administrative authorisation, shall be prohibited." Thus, with the Basque Waters Act as an article, the waters of the Autonomous Community are much more protected than before the Fracking Act. The Court's Validation of the Fracking Fracking Act Article This is particularly relevant in Álava, which is where the most important projects were, which was in the Autonomous Community of Álava, very close to the municipality of Vitoria, where qualified aquifers at risk are located at more than 50% and where most of the non-conventional hydrocarbon extraction projects were also located. From this point of view, the full wording of this article, once declared constitutional by the Court, enables the competent bodies of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration, particularly the body which has powers over water, to deal objectively with the essential objective of the Act of 30 June, of additional fracking measures. I believe that this law was a success from the beginning, because it meant that the political parties would have to be able to leave hairs in the catera, thinking about what the Autonomous Community needed. I think we echoed the proposals that were on the street, that popular legislative initiative, and I also think, as I said, that good work was done, and we can refer to the facts: today, Euskadi has a law, unlike other autonomous communities. The subject of aquifers was a concern that existed in Euskadi. As I say, there were 50% who had this risk of vulnerability and, indeed, with this non-legislative proposal it is clear that the concern is shared and that the Basque Government is willing to make that map, to update it, taking into account the underlying conditions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u86	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, members and gentlemen of the legislature. It's no new topic to-day. Many years ago, 19. end of the century, Vicente Manterola Don Carlos o el petróle The first license to find what is called "black gold" on the urba land was given in 1901, and 60 years later, the Germans had been looking for oil in our country. On the hillside, Laudan, Añan, Opakuan, Urbascan, Ezin... , but they failed. They didn't find any oils, but they didn't care about gas in those days. As Mr. Otero has said, the old man has heard from this Chamber. Another 50 years and 2011, President Lopez's Governments making that gas fracing. Everybody knows, and we've been talking about this several times in this house about the Araba society immediately turned her back on this. And then they came to the point of it and then they came back to Franking picnic. Mr. Otero, I don't even know what SHESA said at that time, but you remember, on the one hand, what the Director of EVE said just now, and I remember what the chief physician said at that time: "The government renounces the practice of fracking So the chief physician, to say that, said so in the government, did not add to it any further why. Therefore, as some of the previous speakers pointed out, the debate " fracking fracking fracking fracking As much as the Constitutional Court has issued a judgment that we regret, the compromise is firm, as I say, and we are also lucky that permits for exploration are in public hands. Therefore, let us be consistent and not devote ourselves to airing debates and ghosts of the past. The time has come to face the future. We need a country agreement on energy and that we can all be able to respond to the challenge posed by the energy transition. The Basque Government's medium- and long-term energy policy established in 2016 through the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy is based on a process of transition to the majority use of renewable sources. In the long term, we must permanently decouple ourselves from fossil fuels and achieve zero net emissions of greenhouse gases over the course of this century with renewable energy as the only energy supply. As we promote implementation in this area and shape the technological conditions and socio-economic viability for their majority employment, we must ensure the energy supply of our society and industry with the existing resources, both the very few themselves and those we import and on which we are almost entirely dependent. In this context, our obligation and responsibility is to know, in all possible detail, the energy resources available to our territory in order to be able to take decisions on energy policy, so that the needs of the entire Basque population in this area can continue to be met. Within the range of energy sources we currently consume, natural gas is the energy source that best meets these requirements. In this regard, the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy foresees an increase in energy supply by seven percentage points between 2015 and 2030 from –35 % to 42 %, while oil dependence – from 43 to 35 % – would be reduced by eight percentage points and coal would remain at a residual 1%. In conclusion, whether we like it or not, it will increase the consumption of natural gas, and dependence on the outside is total, so finding – and consequently producing – own gas resources would be very positive. That is our view, that of my parliamentary group and that of the Government we support. But this is not the only challenge ahead. We must move towards a new model of less and much more efficient energy consumption, and it is in our hands to pass the energy efficiency law before the end of this session; we must promote sustainable mobility with – among other tools – the law of sustainable mobility that will soon reach this House; we must develop terrestrial wind energy, photovoltaic solar, hydropower, biomass production, contribute to the development of other technologies, such as marine wind or thermoelectric solar. Not all have, much less, the same level of maturity, and their development will depend to a great extent on whether the future goes in one direction or another. Euskadi must remain committed to its decision to move firmly towards the sustainability of the energy system in its environmental aspects determined by its impact on the climate, on pollution levels and on the availability of limited resources; in social and economic terms, related to energy availability and its cost, in line with the vision of an energy model and ambitious and long-term vision, which requires early and continuous action to sort out and minimize the impact of existing global difficulties. Today we have reached an agreement between all of us. As is often said, we have all left hairs in the litter or have had to swallow some frog for the sake of consensus. As an abertzale, as a person who aspires to the full sovereignty of this country, I have no satisfaction, quite the contrary, in accepting in the same paragraph the denunciation of how the high courts of the State curtail our capacity to legislate in matters that belong to us and at the same time ask the Government to denounce that same law prohibiting this technique beyond our competence. But, finally, as my friend Luis Zarrabeitia said, it will have to be less of principles and more of finals. I hope that we will continue in this dynamic, in this future that I have intended to draw briefly, because, I insist, in order to channel the energy transition as it deserves and in order to recover the unfortunately lost time, we need a country agreement on energy. These are the challenges. Follow around with the fracking Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The next round of the group that hasn't run any corrections, representative of the Basque Potula Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Group, both in considering the popular legislative initiative that came to this House – remember the proposed law of additional environmental protection measures for the extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons and the hydraulic or fracking fracking fracture It is clear that the spirit of the law was and is to avoid fracking activity It is clear that in the decision of the Constitutional Court, we have limited some aspects of the law, but I have focused heavily on the resolution of 3 May 2017 of the Secretary of State for the Environment, requesting report-assessment of ordinary environmental impact for the project of conventional exploration of the well Armentia 2 – we speak of the conventional – and on the characteristics of potential impact is said – it is not fracking Moreover, it says, of the potential impacts, that "The drilling of the probe mainly involves, apart from the generation of waste (whose management should be the subject of a Management Plan, which the promoter has postponed to subsequent phases), the possible indirect affection to the Zadorra river ZEC for possible contamination of the hydrological system, as well as the potential affection to the aquifer of the Subijana Calizas by the appearance of turbidity or fluid flow". We're talking about conventional exploration. I mean with this, that our opposition and the way we wanted to protect it was more than justified, because if already for the potential impact of a conventional exploration, from the Environment Directorate you say all these conditions that you can have... Because it says more. He says that "... there are discrepancies between the bodies consulted on the radiological risk of the project. The Nuclear Security Council has warned that during the long-term testing period the project is likely to generate a significant radiological impact for workers and the environment – and that is what we are talking about as conventional exploration. However, the Basque Energy Agency is of the opinion that any risk relating to radiological characteristics of the riparians to be extracted can be ruled out." He also says that "Although the promoter argues that the drilling of Armentia-1 (...) did not have any impact on the aquifer, most respondents have expressed concern about the possible impact on the aquifer. Therefore, they consider it necessary to expand the information in this regard to ensure that the possible condition to the aquifer would not cause relevant environmental effects, given its environmental importance and its strategic value as a quality water resource". Ladies and gentlemen, when we stood in favour of this bill, I believe that the arguments were valid. And they're still valid. And ladies and gentlemen, we have conventional exploration permits on the table. And these are the possible impacts. Therefore, the bill that we have passed is not finished, and what is left of the bill, I believe the spirit for exploration remains alive. There won't be "unconventional," but if there's "conventional," and that's what we have to keep controlling and keeping an eye on. And, Mr. Grajales, I want to ask you a question: Can it be art and part of this question?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u90	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u91	Yes, in short. I didn't mean to get out, but there are two or three interesting things that have come out. Mr. Gragales, I'd say, "not Don Carlos, not oil." And time will tell us, but I'd say no gas. And we'll see, it'll only take a while. Because you said it was written in Moses' tables, "Va a Aumenar el consumo de gas." That will be according to the nices they do, and according to the decisions they make. It's not written anywhere. I agree that we should look into the future as well as we have a task. Of course, we've got a great deal to do and a terrible challenge in my run-out in the Basque Country and Euskal Autonomy Er-Est. But you're picking up the record, picking up the record, picking up the record. So, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, it was fun to hear it, and I'd be a little careful, too, because I know that the Jeltist of the Euko Party thinks will and will always have the government in his hands, but that can change. Because you can talk, I think, about the will of your party or the will of it, but we don't know what will it be, even if it's part of it. If, then, we are speaking of the laws, and there has been a law proposed, and we wish to express the opinion opposed to the Constitutional Court, it is because it is not sufficient by mere will. That's why. And I'll end up here. You, here, have made one of the Egyptian positions of the government and your party. I'm not going in here; I feel that today's forum was better than Franking. And of course I don't think it's funny to ask any thing about the Spanish Government, but it's because of a decision from the Spanish Government that's come to us that terrible or at least significant reduction of our law. So that's also the trouble of the game-field, and we're not the team that won't push us any further than this game-field. That's what we're waiting for, you know. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u93	Mr. Grajales read a quote: "The government renounces fracking fracking Even today, we've given up fracking fracking Look, I'm gonna show you two news that you don't have 10 days. The first, of 19 April: "The cost of production of renewables is already lower than that of conventional energy". Four days later, he reports: "The Basque government's spending to exploit the gas well in La Rioja goes up to 30 million." That is the new debate we have. We're not talking about fracking anymore. And it will not be our group that says that there are winners or losers in this debate, because that is not the issue. I could perfectly say that Mr Otero and I six or seven years ago were out with the banner, that we now bring the banner to this room and all of you stand behind the banner, because that's what's going on, but that's not the point. The question is that here the winners and losers are the Basque society, they are the Basque companies, they are the citizenship, which today will spend more or less on energy consumption. And that's the point. So, our group, I have already said from the beginning, is open to reaching a consensus, we have shown it with the Law of Savings and Energy Efficiency and we will show it if it is to develop renewable energies, but if it is to continue looking for gas, that even if the resource exists it will not be profitable to exploit, because, obviously, there our group will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Miss Rojo mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u95	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Very briefly, in three words. First of all, Mr. Otero: That I recognize a contradiction with what you say. And I understand, because we live in a very curious circle: the laws here, derived from Madrid, and we move there. That's why we got this middle course, because we're moving between these two compounds, right? And here, as we see, the Constitutional Court has said, we have not, as we have said, a certain peculiarity, or an open decency to say no to it. So the only guarantee we have at this moment is, whether we're in the PNV government or not, you see there's a large majority on the side of it, we said that it's not fracing while we're there. Mr Becerra, you know that every four years there are elections and governments change; you have spoken of two governments as one. And I'm not going to talk about winners and losers either, but I'm going to tell you that if there were so many people in those demonstrations that you were behind the banner with Mr. Otero, it was precisely because you weren't alone and Mr. Otero; that is, there were other parties involved; I don't think Elkarrekin We can lead from all the mayors that have in territory the anti-fracking movement. And finally, Mrs López de Ocariz, I don't know what you wanted me to ask about being "art and part"; in any case, I'll tell you what art and part is to miss fracking. Besterik ez, president andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u96	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Ms. Lopez de Ocarariz, yes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u97	Mr. Grajales, "at Mass and respite"; we're going to say it right. If you haven't understood me, I'm sorry, someone will explain it to you, don't worry. If, as I said, for conventional exploration we are seeing that from the technical services we are told that "it is foreseeable that (...) will produce significant adverse impacts" in the environment, and I have told you some, but there is more, because it is a series of requests that are made from the environmental services. So, how are we not going to be against fracking? But, ladies and gentlemen, we have a serious problem here, which has been mentioned. We have something that's abnormal, we have a public hydrocarbon company to explore. I don't know what he's exploring, what we do know and have data is what we spend. We've been buried millions of euros. Millions! And what's the result? Nothing. And you're going to go on? Well, look, do you think SHESA should continue in its activity, failure after failure, burying millions of euros? We believe that the time has come for SHESA to stop acting and to spend money without clear objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u98	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote EH Collect, together Podemos, Basque Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u99	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The fifth point in the subject list is ı r1, in this case: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz López de Munininka, a member of the Popula team to provide Zuia and Urkabusta with constructions. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, advisors, ladies and gentlemen: I present this motion as a result of the inquiry that we presented to the Councillor on 13 April concerning the supply of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz valley. The Councillor urged the People's Group to be part of the solution, and I thank him...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u101	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u102	... The confidence he placed in the People's Group, I pick up his glove, and in that I am presenting this motion which seeks to find the best solution to a very old issue, such as the project of the supply of the upper valley. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of the 21st century, the first quarter of the advanced century, and we are talking about supply infrastructures for the population that are taking more than 30 years. It seems a lie, but this is the case: we talk about something as basic as the supply for the population in decent conditions – the social aspect – but it is that, when we talk about rural depopulation, of the few municipalities that are growing in population and have demand to grow in population is the Town Hall of Zuia and Urkabustaiz. It is in the few areas of the rural environment of Álava that it is growing, and yet it cannot be further increased. There are the rules, the plan of these paralyzed municipalities, because there is no water supply. It really is a drama for this area, for these inhabitants. But we also talk about the situation that is generated every summer in the Bayas River, in the streams of the environment and in the tributaries, an area of high natural value, which are literally dry, and we wonder, where is Ura? Where is the Water Inspection, the fundamental pillar of public domain management – as it says on Ura's own website – Pilar, which is supposed to have the function of making known to the rest of the organization Ura the pressures to which the public domain is subjected. It should also take action in the field to reduce impacts on water bodies and to verify compliance with the conditions set out in the authorisations and concessions processed. The Water Inspection should monitor water use and channel maintenance. What has Ura done in the face of the prolonged situation in time, that is, since Ura exists? What has Ura done to the situation that is periodically generated in the Bayas River, its tributaries and the surrounding rivers? For now, look somewhere else. I was telling the Councillor that we do not, by the way, accuse him of being responsible for this situation, but he is in charge of the department that must run this infrastructure and, as he said in the inquiry, it is necessary to act and implement a solution which, on the one hand, responds to the urban supply needs of Zuia-Urkabustaiz and, on the other, protects and improves the ecological state of the water bodies affected in a natural environment of great value. The environmental part of the project. In the interpellation he realized the long peril that the possible solution to the supply of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz valley has had for the various administrations, and how, once the supply project to the upper Bayas has been agreed, a phase of freezing and, as a result of the economic crisis, is paralyzed. Urgent and non-urgent investments are paralysed. This was urgent long ago – and we are already in 2018 – and this project is technically completed and the administrative and environmental procedures are ready to be activated at the time it is agreed to start the works. And there we are, with an prevailing need, with a project about to start running. And the advisor referred to the framework agreement of July 2017. And he was telling me if I didn't know him. If I know you, counselor, and I'm depressed because it's because I've met you, this is the third framework agreement, for the same works that were agreed in 2004, that then another agreement was made in 2008, that some works were incorporated, and that we are in 2017, a new agreement, taking 10 years the works that were agreed in 2004. I don't hold you responsible, I tell you because you take it personally, but it's your apartment, who do you want me to talk to? Well, I have to talk to you, and I have to demand and remember. Because I am ultimately reminding the entire government that this infrastructure is pending. It is not you personally; it is the Basque Government, which is responsible. And in that peril, in the interpellation it is clear, there have been dimes and directs, and I go and come, and I go up and, in the end, what is paralyzed, to the point of being able to be executed and with the lack of economic availability. And it is that, of course, in that framework agreement that you have signed 2017-2027, the supply of Zuia or Upper Bayas, as it is more correctly called, is the responsibility of execution of the Basque Government. So, I think you should get more involved. And they have also left it in the second phase of the framework agreement. Mr Councilman, I think that when we talk about supplies, about drinking water for the citizens, I think we have to put priorities in the execution of the works. And this is a basic, fundamental priority. And as I told you before, one of the few municipalities that have demand to grow and cannot grow because it has no secure supply. This is a drama, a drama at this time that we already have depopulation, that we have aged, and, moreover, we cannot grow at those points where there is demand for growth. I think it's important that we stop spreading this work. And let it be done as soon as possible. And that's why we filed the motion. A motion calling on the Government, first of all, to agree with the House to bring this work into line with the most appropriate period, which we understand is the first period of framework agreement that you have agreed. Why? Because I tell you that supply is a priority and I find it striking that it has been delayed to the second period. Calling, very eye-catching. We too asked in the motion that we logically put forward budget lines to deal with this infrastructure. If it is up to the People's Group to cooperate or share in the budgets, we have no difficulty in contributing in the way we can, but you have to have the will, and I have not seen the will. Therefore, Mr Councilman, I think it is time for us to take this seriously, because, given the amendment that the government groups have tabled, I think you have not taken this seriously, because this amendment that you have tabled applies to any infrastructure. They don't care. That is, they say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue and, if possible, increase the economic availability for investments in supply and sanitation in the territory of the Basque Republic". I'm glad they've put in "Alavés Territory"! Good luck! Otherwise, we don't know what you're talking about. You don't talk about Zuia's supply here, you talk about future investments. I mean, it means you don't care. Do you believe that the inhabitants of Zuia were passed this amendment and consider that you have thought of them? Well, I don't think so. And that is very sad, because we are talking, as I say, about priority supply. And they say more: for the restoration of the works to be carried out "in the territory of Alava in collaboration with the Provincial Council of Álava and the local entities, without reducing the investment previewed in the rest of the territories, and applying to it criteria of cost-benefit, understanding these last two concepts in social, economic and environmental terms". Well, this is new, isn't it? This is new. We will now provide a cost-benefit report on all investments. Is that what you're incorporating into the projects you're developing? Does this, or does it be done in Álava, not have a report of cost-benefit criteria? Man, when we're talking about supply for the population, what parameter does it set? Is it the same as for sanitation, for example? Is it the same? Is it the same? They haven't considered it at all. They have not made the slightest effort to get closer to the situation of the inhabitants of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz valley: lack of drinking water for consumption in certain summer periods. Indeed, Mr Councillor, I do not understand the amendment. I don't understand it, and I think it's a mistake. An amendment by the Podemos Group has been tabled to this motion and we have reached a compromise amendment in which we say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the Foral de Álava, to amend the Framework Agreement for the financing and implementation of hydraulic infrastructures in the historical territory of Álava, in order to introduce the supply of the Upper Bayas to the horizon 2016-2021, work assumed by the Basque Water Agency, given the urgent need to face the supply for the inhabitants of the Zuia and Urkabustaiz region, and to promote the maintenance of the ecological flows of the affected rivers that are not being respected. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to reflect the appropriate budgetary allocations to deal with the supply works of the Upper Bayas on the 2016-2021 horizon of the Framework Agreement for the financing and implementation of hydraulic infrastructure in the historical territory of Álava." We also say: "We urge the Basque Government to start as a matter of urgency the administrative and environmental procedures that remain pending from the Upper Bayas supply project, with the aim of initiating this project within the 2016-2021 horizon of the Framework Agreement for the financing and implementation of hydraulic infrastructure in the historical territory of Álava". In point four, we urge the Basque Government, through the Basque Water Agency, to ensure that the necessary ecological flow is maintained in both the Bayas River and in all its streams and tributaries, in order to improve the ecological quality of rivers' channels and ecosystems." In the fifth point, we say that "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to collaborate with the municipalities of Zuia and Urkabustaiz in the elaboration of municipal ordinances aimed at promoting responsible consumption of drinking water in their municipalities, in particular during the summer months and in times of water scarcity". Ladies and gentlemen, this is the motion that we have come to, because the government, well, was so far from the initiative that it has not actually been able to approach or offer an approximation text. Too bad! Indeed, it is a pity because I do not think it corresponds to the reality or the spirit that this Government should have and, in particular, Ura. We are talking about infrastructures that are very late in time and that must also be prioritized. And we believe that supplies, in the twenty-first century, already advanced in the twenty-first century, should be a basic urgency. And, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we insist that you reconsider this situation and that we do not scoff at the town hall of Zuia and Urkabustaiz –"No, let's do it in the 25"; then another goes and says: "No, I think it will start the 24"; "No, equally, if we make an effort, in the 23"...–. Okay, they're bored, they're tired, they've been listening to promises for 30 years. Also the Socialist Party, in 2012, when Mr López's government was in place, also promised them that they would start the work. In 2015, in the middle of the municipal elections, the work was also to begin. Hey, people are so sick of listening to unfulfilled promises! I'm sick of it! I would therefore like you to reconsider this situation and vote in favour of this initiative. Of course, for our part, there is no impediment to being able to collaborate in the budgets, in the economic section, which seems to prevent you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, organize resources and prioritise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u103	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u104	Good morning again. There is a lack of water in the town of Zuia and Urcabustai, especially in the town. And ten years ago, I was promised to fix that situation. He promised to keep that word. And to fill it up, we've got the medium between the two teams, and, of course, our team will protect him. We are going to demand that the Government fulfil its commitments; we are going to demand that it fulfil its commitments because drinking water is a fundamental right of people, a basic right. A basic right that also affects in a special way their daily quality of life. And this basic right cannot be subject to unfulfilled promises. It cannot be that the Basque Government promised in 2007 that it would fix the problem and leave until 2027 to fix it. Twenty years isn't a receipt. And it is true that this problem was aggravated by inadequate urban growth, in the case of Zuia, because in 2006 500 houses were promoted, a population increase of more than 30% was promoted, without the water resources needed to supply these people. And there, too, once again, the Government acted in an irresponsible way, guaranteeing, ensuring that there was going to be such a supply and yet did not comply. More people were brought in, without resources for this because, and here we have to say, water resources, drinking water is a scarce resource. It seems to us that it is inexhaustible, and more living in Euskadi, but no. It is a scarce resource and, like any scarce resource, requires responsible management. And that is why in our amendment we referred to two important issues. The first is the need to spend the water responsibly, to use the water responsibly, especially in the summer, to make a responsible consumption of it. And we proposed, and we propose – and we are glad that the People's Group has accepted this issue within the amendment – that municipal ordinances be made in those municipalities to make responsible consumption of water, not to water gardens, to use water responsibly in pools and other superfluous uses because water is scarce. But we also proposed, and will continue to propose, sustainable urban development in those municipalities that have resource problems, as in this case. We cannot increase the population without ensuring that there will be drinking water for all. And this is an appeal that must be made to all the institutions involved in this issue, because it is very easy to adopt urban plans, it is very easy to adopt subsidiary rules that will then bring additional problems. But, if the basic needs of people are important, then the basic needs of the ecosystems where these people live are no less important, and here I have to refer to the non-compliance of the ecological flows of the Upper Bayas, because the flow of the main river is respected, but several streams dry during the summer to ensure drinking water, and yet we do not realize that if we fail to meet the issue of ecological flows, if we fail to meet the basic needs of ecosystems, sooner or later the people living there will suffer those consequences also because their quality of life is going to be undermined. More than once I have argued in this rostrum that the quality of the environment and the quality of life of people are unfailingly united. You can't have a good quality of life, if the ecosystem where those people are going to live doesn't have a good quality too. To conclude, I must say, that to supply the water-water system, whether in Zuian or Urkabusta, it is necessary to improve and to protect the quality of people's life and environments, but this project must be made in order to manage the water well, to manage it in a responsible manner. If we don't do it like that, it's gonna be all over again. Two conditions in our proposal, in our compromise amendment: that the Government fulfil its commitments and that we start to create a culture of responsible water use, because it will always go to the benefit of the quality of life of people and to the benefit of the places where they live. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u105	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u106	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I had prepared another intervention, but I am not going to put myself here to repeat what Mr Arriola said because indeed this is already inventing everything. Mr Arriola already explained in his question what the position of the Government was, what was being done, where the situation came from, when it began, why it had to be paralyzed and what the plans of the Government were on this issue, and therefore I will not bore you again by telling you the same thing if it were otherwise. And Mrs López de Ocariz told us that the agreement was impossible because we were very far from reaching it, because the text, which we presented to the parties that we supported to the government, was very different from what you presented, and what you ended up negotiating with Mr Becerra with the support of Mr Otero. And Mrs López de Ocariz, you know that is not true, and as a courtesy to Parliament I am not going to tell you my conversation, but you know what you were proposing, you know what the government was proposing, you know who was willing and who was not willing to negotiate, and you know it perfectly. So, if you don't want it to end up telling things the way they were, then don't tempt, because you know I'm pretty easy to get in. Therefore, there has been no agreement because it has not been possible. Let's leave it there!, but don't say it was very complicated and that the government came close, because you know as well as I do that that's not true. Let's leave it there! But, well, there's a second chance to really explain how things happened. Okay, first point. Second point. That "the government looks the other way"; that "Mr. Arriola, as responsible for Ura, is the one who has to execute the work", the framework agreement of 2017, such... And then I, which is not very complicated either, I mean, I go to the website of the Álava Diputation, which you like so much to look at the Álava Diputation, many times much more than I do, and there is a framework agreement – that you do so much – that you know perfectly well everything that has cost you reaching an agreement between the Government and the Diputation, and then we find that this work, indeed, is planned for the second part in 2021 and 2027 with a budget that reaches almost 18 million euros. And you say, "Looks like the only cause for not reaching the deal is money." Of course, you have to pay for it. And in addition, you are a parliamentarian who often brings to this House the necessary hydraulic infrastructures in the province of Álava and brings them as a demand because you consider them necessary, essential, and often the government to you has given you the reason, but when we go to that framework agreement we see the supply of Sobrón, the Oyon EDAR, the Agurain EDAR, the Upper Nervion sanitation – by the way, it seems that something has to be said by the ministry – the Moreda EDAR, the supply of the Upper Bayas – which is this one –, the Manzanos sanitation, Lagran sanitation, the solution to the Sanitation and Purification of Legutiano, the solution to the Sanitation and Purification of Artzinega, and we have divided between the two phases and the final result. This is the part that affects Ura, but it is that then, in that framework agreement, the parliament also has something to say. Retalk about Sobrón's supply, the connection of the captures of Amurrio, Izore and improvement of supply, the primary network of Larrinbe, Berganza and Berganzagoiti, collectors of Valdegovia, sanitation of Gopegi-Ondategi, sanitation solution and purification of Alegria, collectors of Iruña de Oca... And the Ura framework agreement is a total of almost 74 million euros. The first phase exceeds 25 and the second phase exceeds 48. If this isn't a commitment. This is a commitment to planning in specific years, with clear budget lines from the two institutions involved, because it is clear that this must be done. And besides, Mr. Arriola told him that he was going to do it, but we have to pay for it. And you say, "It's about priorities." You asked us, "It's that we have to prioritize, it's that this is necessary." I share that: priority must be given. EUR 18 million. From these works I have told you, which one do we take away? Because you know that in that area collectors have just been paid, which were also claimed and needed in the Zuia area, and have been done. Therefore, we cannot say here joyfully that there is a lack of commitment, that there is no will... This is how we talk, very free of charge, about the subject of budgets. First, Mr Becerra, for budgets to exist, we must want to sit down and negotiate. That, one. And then, anyway, we sit down and we come to an agreement, or not, but if one of the first starting points is "I don't feel," it's very complicated to reach an agreement, for this issue, for the gender-based violence pact or whatever you want. But it is not fair to blame the entire budget negotiation when Elkarrekin We may not want to sit, legitimately, with his motives, but he did not want to do so. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, here we have the opposite: you did negotiate the budgets and there was not this budget item of EUR 18 million. Hey, I hope they're for the next budget year! It just wasn't for this one. I therefore believe that they were saying "to each one their own thing" and so on, because, indeed, this Government, in Mr Arriola's department, marked a planning, made an order of priorities, understood what it had to do and marked the budgetary exercises. Here we know perfectly well that there is a work, which was also claimed to be essential – and some parliamentarians were able to visit it in the last legislature – as is the issue of Busturialdea, which is of a very large economic amount, which has commitment appropriations for a few years and which, in fact, takes part of Ura's budget very important, and which needs to be released in order to keep things up to date, but there is commitment, there is planning, there is a specific budget item for when the time comes. Therefore, it seems to me that we cannot say that the issue needs to be reconsidered. It's just that nothing needs to be reconsidered. It is that this Government has it as its priority and has it marked. So, I mean, sometimes we come here to say free things. The web pages – because we are in a time of transparency – say everything, months, times, budget items, what is supply, what is sanitation, who is, if it is the Chamber, if it is the Basque Government, if they have to pay something the municipalities, if they don't have to do it. I would therefore like to say that I consider it important that the truth should not be lacking. And from there, Mrs López de Ocariz, came the amendment that the groups that support the government proposed: that it be continued, that it be increased if possible, according to the planning... Hey, if the People's Party or Elkarrekin We can are so generous that they put the 18 million euros so that this can be done, I am sure that the Basque government will rethink how to do it. And then, to conclude, tell how things are today, how this issue is today. Technically finished. As the adviser said, "project affected by the difficult budgetary situation". It is true that this also affected the economic crisis. As I told you, Ura recently completed the EDAR and Zuia's collector network. By the way, not for free: 7 million euros exceeded by this work. This project, as you say, comes from far behind with many procedures and procedures, already completed, but with that crisis that influenced deadlines and compliance. I therefore say that this Government does not intend to delay the implementation of this infrastructure because it also recognizes it as necessary and essential for the area. As we just said, Ura completed the EDAR and the collector network. In fact, the Framework Agreement for the Financing and Implementation of Hydraulic Infrastructures in the Historical Territory of Álava signed on 11 June 2017 includes these supply works as a commitment. These and others I've already told you. But in addition, we can also compare them with the other two provinces, which also have claims and works that consider essential their deputies, their mayors and their councillors in the municipalities, and which are also planned in the work plans of the Basque Government. And I conclude with some textual words that Mr Arriola said in his speech in the past full of control: "There is determination to approach the work as soon as it is feasible, taking into account, among other factors, the disposition of economic resources, the entity of the problem to be solved, the cost-benefit balance in social, economic and environmental terms". I therefore believe that we are much more in agreement with what you have seemed here after listening to your speeches. They're worried and we're worried. They ask for planning and planning is done, but in this I don't think they should throw balloons out where they don't exist. Because you said that Mr Arriola was not responsible and since you are not responsible you have understood that you should do so. But in time and with your budget. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u107	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, I am not going to be very original at this beginning of intervention because I am going to underline the guiding principle of the government's hydraulic policies, for the rejoicing of Mrs López de Ocariz. And it is the most logical of all and it is that the hydraulic work costs a lot, it is a very strong investment and the prioritization, that the government does it from its legitimate discretion, is always prioritizing the criterion, as mentioned above, of cost-benefit. And this logic must be kept internalized and not demagogic, because we have, in general terms, an inverted population pyramid, the state of well-being every day costs more and the money that can be devoted to public work is one, obviously, not to do everything in a short period of time. In 2014, I was able to revise the debate that took place in this House on this same subject, it was precisely what we are discussing today, and in that debate there was a secondary plot, a matter arising from this, which was that of Urdaibai, also mentioned by Mrs Red, and in it the disastrous of the, say, deferred commitments of the government was commented on exactly with the same arguments... Well, from 2014 to 2017, the counselor here has been in Sukarrieta, at the pumping station that has cost and is costing its execution a lot of money, the collecting system is awarded, at least one stretch, the main stretch, and therefore it is a system that works, but it has to be done delayed and in time. Today the opposition is going to unite its votes, apparently, to change the order of priorities that was established in the framework agreement that the Basque Government signed last July with the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, and I, by giving a small turn to the argument that Mrs Red has used, would place the three opposition groups to tell us, to enrich us with their technical opinions, which of the priorities number two, that is, which of the projects contemplated in the first stage 2017-2021 we removed and included in the second. Because this – and it is a very much argument of Mr.Damborenea – are counted beans, and it is the chickens that come in through which they come out. Therefore, demagogy always a point in opposition is almost necessary, but not passed. The chief physician explained in interpelation the development and complexity of this project during years. It's a very complex project. And he also explained that there is a project now, not planned, but thought, and that it is to make a mid-year-old at Altas Bay, and then to build a cave a little higher. So if there's a route, there's a deadline. The Chief physician tells us he's fixed in a realistic way. So we're just asking the government to act hard or forward on our side, right? On the other hand, Podemos has brought back the hubarak and PP, too, about the ecological problem, hasn't he? And besides the supply of water, it has been discussed, and it has been exaggerated, as has been said, that the current is lost in summer, and that is not true. The water rate is rather weak, but it does not disappear. Then I'll read about the session on the 21st calendar of Zuia, where the environment and economic matters are examined, but we can say that if they're in the country today, you ask for correction, but now there are subsidies of orderly for the consumption of water: The pools are now restricted; the watering in some summers is prohibited in hard summers and drys, and the growth of new buildings is already limited and required by those who are made or self-destructive, a tank of 10 cubic meters is required to take the water of the rain, right? For watering their gardens. So, to compare the dark photo you've presented, I'll read several short passages of the Agenda 21's report. It says: "The state of conservation of the Bayas River is superior to most of the CAV rivers. This is demonstrated, for example, by the oak oak groves existing in the forests of the municipality's bank. Water quality is acceptable." And then he mentions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u109	Can we just shut up, please?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u110	... a list of the incidences of activities and risks in the natural environment. The first is the AP-68 motorway; the second is the recreational pressure in Gorbea by mountaineers who go and exert pressure on the natural environment; the third is the abandonment of traditional agricultural activities; the fourth is forestry, and the fifth must be that, due to wolf attacks, cattle do not climb the mountain and do not clean it up. If you mention the problem of water intake and you mention that lack of flow that exists in summer, which is real, no one can deny it because it is a technical precision. And it is said that in general there are good quality rivers, the biggest problems are due to the catchment that is made to the river and that affects it significantly in summer. He adds: "The works for the renovation of the Victorian EDAR are already awarded, so once the works have been completed the quality of the river will be improved". As Mrs Red said, this EDAR is already running and running. The ecological and physical states of water are then analyzed from 2004 to 2008, which is the date on which this report is made; 2004, good; 2005, good; 2006, good; 2007, good. These are the physical-chemical quality. And in general, no one denies that this is a necessary infrastructure, because it is true that this population is limited, it has limited its growth, although possibly, a posteriori, if even the work is carried out, it will also have to rethink the existing model in the area, but in general it is necessary the infrastructure, it is calendared, the Government has said, and we do not have to believe it, that it is a realistic calendar and therefore nothing more than to encourage them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Going round the group that has no corrections, Mr. Oterre, the representative of the EH Collectors, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u112	Yes, good noon again. Begira, hasi nahi due gauza batekin, Arruabarrena jauna: bear itussia generate from honor etorri eta demagoggia Egyptian of bitartean beast demagogotzat akusatzea. Bi aldiz egin duzu, éta zure argudioak mahai heurean jarri dituzunean zu hasi zara esaten hemen eskatzen from her "change the order of priorities", which I have not seen. What I understand is that we are asking for an emergency to be included. That is to say, that the framework agreement should be changed to include the urgency that, of course, everyone recognizes. And it also tells us what project we take away. None. We're not talking about taking out any projects. Or at least we are saying that here we have a problem, which comes from afar, that we can talk about the first reports of the 1980s, but, of course, that it has had several chapters and I will make reference to some, but we are talking about that we have another fundamental problem, and that it is greater than the specific problem of the supply of Upper Bayas and Zuia and Urkabustaiz. I've said it over and over, finally, between this government and the prior, and here I give you the right: "legítima discrecialidad." Efectivaente, each government decides where it puts money. And I've been accusing them here for two years. If we look at the latest 10 budgets, "Planción y administration hydricacs," 2009, he had 82 million dollars in the year, and in the last five years, since EAJ came into the government in 2012, the first budgets were prolonged, but the first time you took them out of your budget, not the budgets, but the budgets, you gave them a cut, you gave them an axe. And then it's always the same: "It's a problem of money." Of course, it's a financial problem. And whenever we argue with Arrian, we always say the same thing: "You must get more money." And we're always on that side in the budget corrections. You have to give more money to water because it's a priority. But you can't come here saying that we make a great fuss about others or us, and then use these arguments because we propose something else. And yes, and in Zuian there is a problem, and in Zuian there has been a long time, and the subsidy rules of the year 2007 had stopped for almost a year, and there came a promise; and therefore the subsidy rules were unlocked; and thence came that glorious project that water had made. What's going on? It was a work of 17 million euros. And from that moment on, that project went to the drawer. And it's in the drawer! And Mrs Red, you tell me that this government has it as its priority, it has it marked. No, no, No, no, Because this government ends its motion in 2020 and in the same way that you are saying that this is a problem that comes from afar and that, of course, you cannot bear all the dead of the problem of the supply of Zuia and Urkabustaiz, because it is going to happen the same with the next government, we do not know who will be. You have done what the bad footballers do, kick forward, kick forward, because this is a problem that comes from afar, and this is a problem that Mrs López de Ocariz herself brought here in 2014 to this Parliament. And, indeed, you at that time had it very clear. They made it very clear. They voted in favour, without any doubt, of a GNP which said that the Basque Government should be urged, as a matter of urgency, to licitate "the works of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz supply construction project" and that "the 2015 budgets provide for the implementation of the Zuia-Urkabustaiz supply construction project". You guys had it all figured out. And that was a priority. And you wanted to have budgets for this in 2015. Something that, of course, was ignored by the PNV. He did not listen to it because we started again from those cut-off budgets, as I say, enormously on what came from previous years. And what is happening is that in the end the inhabitants of Zuia and Urkabustaiz are not enough I do not know whether numerous or important for the Basque Government, the former and now this, to consider that it deserves an investment that will cost 17 million euros. With this, you will sign a framework agreement with the Foral de Álava, in which you obviously schedule and prioritize, and leave it as a secondary, as something that will probably come after you are not in government. I mean, they don't take that as a government. Because you can tell me that – I don't know how to say – this year you can't. Well, but there are more budgets left in this same legislature. You can say that the budgets will be increased and that, of course, you give priority to the water supply of Zuia and Urkabustaiz and, therefore, before the end of the parliamentary term, the budget lines committed. But when you split it in two and divide it on one side 2016-2021 and then 2021-2027, and frame this work in that second period, you are doing, I insist, the play of the bad footballer: kick forward and we will see. Because that is in the end what is being resigned after the legislature, and this problem comes from the 1980s, the inhabitants of Zuia and Urkabustaiz. And in the meantime, there is an enormous problem, as they have said before, that those who have spoken for it have spoken before me; and it is that water looks on the other side. There is a terrible problem with the ecological gift, but we know that if they have to drink the water, the Zuia and the Urkabusta, this ecological gift is not guaranteed. And there's an awful problem. Ba Honek solution simple bone danka: jakina, straight. Dirua is one hundredth, not a jartzen den. Zeren gero is duzue baga ere who have it marked and that there is a planning, but it is that of what are fed up and fed up people living in the area is precisely planning. It has already been said: there is a framework agreement of 2004, which has not been complied with; an amendment of 2008, which has not been complied with, and the last framework agreement signed last year recognises that almost nine years have elapsed since the signing of the previous agreement, the commitments entered into by the parties have not been fully completed. Obviously, they have not been completed to a large extent, and this is what it does to eternalize the problem, not allocate resources and we will see. The inhabitants of the area are being told that, according to the Hydraulic Work Master Plan of the parliament, perhaps we can be talking about 2024. When you tell a city council that you're going to do a work that's already been promised and almost lined up since 2007, and in 2017 you tell it you're going to do it in 2024, what you're telling it is you're not going to do it. You're not gonna do it, that's what you're telling her. "We'll see about that." "We'll see about that." Eta henrera akordio horrek ere trapa pixka bat badu eta berriro ere berdin ari gara: that of the kick forward. Arriola jaunak, akordio hori iragari zenean eta prentsarrekoa eman zenean, esan zuen: "We are talking about important investments, it is not the chocolate of the parrot" – I think it was the expression he used –, eta orduan esaten duzue: "Eusko Jaurlaritzak 50 milioi euro jarriko ditu 74 milioi horietatik, baisa 50 milioi horietatik, 18 jarriko ditu lehen aldian –lehen period horretan, 2021era donan horretan – eta 32, the lion part, goes for when we no longer have or can not have responsibilities of the government". With this, we are trapping the lonely: we make as if we have an important investment, which is not parrot chocolate, with 50 million euros committed by the Basque government, but in this first period from 2016-2017 until 21 we put 18, which is the smaller part, which is to which we can commit." But not only that, but also leaving most of the investment for a future or future that we will see, we say in the agreement itself, we have to recognize, that by then the current state hydrological plan will have ended and there will be new hydrological planning. With this, it is possible that to the works that we have unfinished we are added X more hydraulic works, with which we will have the same problem again because we will have piled up the problems. If we finish the works that we have to finish, in the current period of hydrological planning, which goes precisely to the year 2021, which is what you are playing with, with a firmer step, because surely we would not have to leave all the works to speculation and to the futures of possible arrangements. And that's where we're at.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u113	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing on to the answers' turn, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u114	Mrs. Red, here's a hemerotec for everyone. You have been mentioned the agreement that was made in this House in 2014. You in 2014, in 2015, supported the Government and put budget lines. Did you put any of you in for Zuia's supply? No, no, The Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment and was rejected by you. So, Mrs. Red, we have to go over everything. But what's more, I said it the other day in the interpellation: in 2014 – in May 2014 – a prosecutor was saying at Alava General Councils of the Socialist Group: "To say that the project is currently being drafted, which will come out in this or next week. In a very short time the funding will come to public information it can also be said that it is the responsibility of Ura and that in the year 2015 there are 8 million euros and will end in the year 2020 with 10 million euros. There's a project and it's plotted. It is an agreement of the Basque Government through URA." When I told you that we're making permanent chalaneo, this is the permanent chalaneo, because it's lying after lying, and now they're doing the same: walking around Zuia explaining that it's going to be 2024, 25, 23. Budget. Look, we have it very easy, Mr Becerra has taken out the press cut earlier, but I have it here too: "The Basque government's spending to exploit the gas well in La Rioja goes to 30 million." Look if we close SHESA, we solve all the outstanding hydraulic infrastructures. Because, Mr. spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group, do you know what's going on? Why are we in this situation? Because in the years of economic boom these works were pending, but it was never a priority for the PNV, nor for the Socialist Party, which was part of the government during those periods. It was never important. They were dilated. And today there is no planning, there is a dilation of planning already in 2004! Therefore, they do not bore citizens. Do you want to, yes or no? They can do it, because what's going on? What if we put 18 million in the budget now can you start in 2019? So, what's the matter, that the framework agreement we skipped? Can we? Is that all there is to it? Well, it's very easy for you, ladies and gentlemen. There is no will and no proof of that is the amendment you are making. They don't even quote Zuia-Urkabustaiz! For the interpellation, and the motion, is concrete, concrete to a work, and you escape into the Tuntun. Is that what this situation matters to you? It's really eye-catching. They have no arguments. And the budget, you either don't have the capacity to fight it in the government or I don't know what you're doing there, but it's that you take responsibility and you know that the works are pending. And now what they do is move it to 2027, with which the framework agreement is already being implemented in December 2027. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is very little will here to deal with this as it deserves. It's about time!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u115	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u116	Well, it is clear that the word of this debate is "priority", and I will not be able to be clearer than what my colleagues, Mr Otero and Mrs López de Ocariz have been, but what is clear is that here, in the case of Zuia-Urkabustaiz, there is no priority. That's been meridianly clear. And Mr. Arruabarrena says the opposition is going to change the priority. At all, we have no capacity to change the priority. We don't rule. He'll touch us, he'll touch us, but right now we can't. What we can do is to remind the Government that drinking water is a basic right, a basic right, a basic right. The basic rights are not inapproachable and are not extendable. We have to remind him. Then the Government will already set the priority it wants to set because, in fact, prioritization is always done by the Government. He does the prioritization and makes the announcements. When a Government announces that it is going to do a work, it must have a budget, and if not, it must not announce it. Mr Arriola has been suffering from this throughout the legislature: announcements, agreements, agreements that have been signed by others before him and that he cannot now comply because they have no money, because they were empty agreements. They were empty deals. Mr Grajales said earlier, "it is that on the subject of fracking And that's the problem Mr. Arriola has, which we're going to end up calling him, with all due respect, "Mr. I wish," because in every appearance he says "I wish I had," "I wish I could"... And he's been left empty by the hatchet. But what is not welcome, Mrs Red, is that if you as a Socialist Party have reached an agreement in which you have given three portfolios of government, of no political relevance, and above all without budget, tell the opposition to see if "please make us some amendments to give us some money". Man, if you are not able to negotiate with the ruling party to have that money, do not continue in the government. Do not continue in the Government. Say, "Let's hang the plate," but they don't. You'll know why. What cannot be is that it is the opposition's fault that there is no money to do the works. If there is no such thing, it is because you in the government have no strength to demand, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, that the money we use, that we bury in gas, we use it to draw drinking water, for example. And this deal, this deal, and this I have to say, it's an empty deal anymore, Mr. Arriola, Mrs. Red, because in the small letter – Mrs. Red said: "web pages tell everything" –... Indeed, the small letter of this agreement says, "in each of the actions contained in the framework agreement, it will require the conclusion of a specific agreement, detailing the tasks on the part of each of the institutions, as well as their commitments in the execution of the actions". I mean, we re-subscribe an empty framework agreement, which is deferred to the next legislature, where you possibly know yourself that you are not going to continue to rule, and the next one that I borrowed, and this is what we have been doing for 10 years and what the opposition has been denouncing, and today we denounce it once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u117	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u118	A certain obsession with getting the Socialist Party out of the government I see, a certain obsession. For the moment you are ruling the Socialist Party, Mr Becerra, and you are the opposition. This is the reality of hard and raw. You have a country project, a budget project, a project of everything, you are even a spokesperson for the environment and you find it politically irrelevant. It's just that I think you've been wrong and I also think you're a responsible person and you're going to admit that you've been wrong in your words. You cannot say that the three portfolios the Socialist Party carries are irrelevant. You can't say that, because then you have to stand listening to you in the rostrum that says things to the councillors of the Socialist Party. Because, is collective bargaining irrelevant? Look in the middle that comes. Is free justice irrelevant to abused women? Is the Fracking Act irrelevant But We can make big headline policies, then scratch and there's nothing, because here's very good "what bad budgets," but I don't feel like negotiating them; "what a bad People's Party," but Pedro Sánchez at home. And so it goes, and now it turns out that both Bildu and Podemos must have a glass ball by which they see that the Socialist Party is not going to be in government. Are you going to be there? I'm asking, I'm asking. Because, hey, until two years ago they didn't even want to hear about armchairs, but, anyway, hey, you get here and it looks like reality changes. It's just that it's not the same thing to talk outside of talking inside; it's not the same as the headlines left for the session log as when it comes to real politics. And you, whether you like it or not, lack the truth. Is Zuia's issue a problem? Yeah. Who has arranged the issue of collectors and supply? Bildu? The councillors of Zuia or the department headed by Mr. Arriola? I ask, because to see if we are going to be living in two different Euskadis, which I believe we live in two different Euskadis for many subjects, which I believe, but please do not fail to the truth. And you say, "As you know they're not going to be," we go back to Aramis Fuster's ball, "of course, they propose this by 2021." Do you want to tell me, Mr Otero, what a great infrastructure you have in hydraulic matters for four years since it is planned until it can be inaugurated? One. Tell me one. Look, I was going to tell you an example... I'm not gonna say it, 'cause then it's all left. One, tell me one. What happens is that when you get to the government and have a country project you're not thinking about the four years we're in the government. That's what happened to you in Gipuzkoa, but it changed the story and home. That is not the case, that a planning is done here and you make a diagnosis of the situation with the hydraulic infrastructures and you see who it affects, who has to pay and who is involved in the project, and you get to the council, Mr. Arriola with his directors and his department, and he says, "these thirty things have to be done: order of priorities, necessary budget items...". Because, of course, we can also propose, what to tell you, bring the sea to Vitoria. It seems that it will not be, and that if you want to bring it, we will have to see how much it costs, to tell the citizens, not to create false expectations in the municipalities and, above all, to miss the truth. And that's what you do. And whether you like it or not, this work is planned, because Mr. Arriola recognizes that it is a necessary and prevailing demand in the area. And it's going to be done. And take what he thinks he has to do inside the department and say what we're going to do. And on top of that, I've told you how much money it costs, what year it's going to be made. What is more: the government proposed to include in the amendment starting in 2021, so don't talk to me about 2027, let's say things as they are when it comes to negotiating, because it's not true that we didn't want to set a deadline. It's not true! Therefore, we are aware of the situation and we are aware of what needs to be done. And then, of course, Mrs López de Ocariz, is that you seem to be passing by in all this: "it is that the Socialist Party and the PNV, which are the ones who have ruled, such...". "Years of bonanza." Do you want to tell me a legislature that the Socialist Party has been in good years? How we have to go back to Ramón Jáuregui because, come on, when Patxi López was Euskadi's lehendakari, we all know how the economic situation was. Today, which the Socialist Party is ruling in coalition with the PNV, we know how the economic situation is. And by the way, when Mr. Lopez ruled, you supported the budgets. They didn't go that way. They conditioned, put budget items and, by the way, Zuia-Urkabustaiz was not there. And you say to me, "It's not like the hemerotheque." If I stand up for what we said in the year 2014-2015: that must be done. But you have to be able to pay for it. And you don't have to lie, and you don't have to tell citizens what they want to hear. Mrs López de Ocariz, and I finish, President, I told you yesterday, "we can reach an agreement, if you want me to sign the amendment, but we are not going to comply with it." And I said, "There are others who would sign what is not fulfilled, but I am not going to miss the truth." Mrs López de Ocariz, because you can't change a framework agreement because you can. A framework agreement is changed by another, and if it does not change. And this deal was signed in July, and we're in early May, and you already want to brush it. That's not how it is! We are therefore concerned, we are busy, there is a budget item and, Mr Otero, a work like this needs more than four years. What happens, which I understand, is that when one has managed for a short time because ignorance makes these mistakes come true.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u119	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u120	Mrs. López de Ocariz, I'm going to be generous with you. You arrived in Spain in 2011, you had a virtually ruined state and you lowered spending on infrastructure from zero to less than one. And it's understandable, okay. It's understandable. And here there has been an enormous technical complexity, because the work is very complex, and apart there has been, well, a time of crisis, and that has led to a certain postponement of the work. Good. I thought you guys were gonna be more reasonable in your judgment. Mr Otero, priorities are materialized with economic endowment, governments set priorities with economic endowment. How do you look if you don't? Is there a demonstration? Claim t-shirt? No, no, It's fixed with money, isn't it? Well, it's no demagogy at all. We're talking about that. And about the "patadon forward" thing. Well, we're more of looking at the future with vision, running forward and making the pass back we leave it to the rugby and his parish, which you usually get right when you rectify. And Mr. Becerra, I commend your ambition and your vision for the future, allied with the PNV in a government, which is the most viable way in which you can possibly enter a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. To finish up, EH Collect Group's representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u122	Bai, gutxi hitz egingo dut, jendeari pixka bat denbora emateko bozketarako, zeren iruditzen baitzak esanda daudela. Eta iruditzen zit henera, Red anderea, jaitsi eta... When you start to bind a little bit to blowers, gives a little feeling, or at least from my position, gives the feeling that precisely what you're doing is giving us the That's right, because it's a recurring mechanism in you, isn't it? I think he has confused terms, and it is not my intention either to defend what should be done, because it was an allusion to him, Mr Becerra. He said to see whether or not it is irrelevant the departments that his party is running. And I, of course, of course, and I think we will all agree that the irrelevant, when we talk about irrelevant, we are not talking about the issues that you are dealing with, but about the problems that you have to provide in a sufficiently financial way to carry out the tasks that you are entrusted with. In any case, it would be that problem. And with regard to being and not being in the government, I do not understand that there is a special obsession because there is or is not the PSE in the government, but that I believe it has become quite clear, and I therefore believe that you have given few arguments, let alone none, that you really cannot compromise that work during this legislature. They can't compromise that play. I mean, you can't guarantee that that's going to go ahead. And if it takes more than four years, of course the inhabitants of Zuia-Urkabustaiz know, in fact, that the works take more than four years, as if the problem has been detected since 1985. So you should see if the works are lasting more or less than four years. I wouldn't say that's so complex. Everything's expensive. It's pretty clear. The thing about $17 million dollars is after this play and that's what it's all about. And you're right. And I think that you have spoken the truth, and that things must be admitted as they ought, and that every government has the advantage of its discretion, where it best or convenient, or where it sees priority. And this means that if the supply of water in Zuia and Urkabustax is not solved, that means it wasn't really the priority. And that it is not the priority of the next year's planning, when once again you are divided into two parts, that is to say, the first part you can guarantee, when you haven't entered it as a Government. And again, and you haven't answered me, then another hydrological planning will come, another government will come, and perhaps the Socialist Party will be back in the government again, but, of course, it can't be confirmed that the work will be done at all. And again we come to the last place. And it is: gigantic substructures and multiples So I think it's the right time, and it'll be the legal proposition, what we're saying to you on this deal, and if you're going to put the prior in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u123	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Euskal populars and the semi-correction signed by the Podemos team together. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[Berber]] I said it right. Translation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u124	Can we fix it or not? I, what he said was "amendment," and he missed me, but, really, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u125	I said it right, I don't know what the translation said. There are people who had translation. I didn't have a translation, but there were people who had a translation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u126	I've understood him, and that's right, PNV-PSOE. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u127	Can I have the results, please? Emboss Result...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u128	Excuse me. Here, modifications have been made by mistake. I mean, me, okay, okay, okay... I'm sorry, but the translator said it wrong, I misunderstand it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u129	Please, please. Yeah, well, yeah. Look, Mari Carmen...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u130	Yeah, but it just can't be. What's the will? It's just that I think... Really. Did I get it wrong? Or did they do it wrong? I don't know. But it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u131	Yes, it can be. Yes, it can be. He's got it wrong, probably, because they tell me the translation's been good, it's been good. So, you've got it right. And I've solidified myself and it's all right. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u132	Well, but here too, more people have been confused and changed. More people have been confused and changed. Yes, President. Yes, President. More people have been confused and changed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u133	No, I'm sorry, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. When one is confused, no, no. Another thing is that in the Minutes I want to say that it has been confused.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u134	No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u135	Don't you? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u136	No, Madam President. I'm sorry, but I'm not. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u137	Please, may I have the results?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u138	Well, I'll put it on the record, and I'll bring another initiative in the same way. But I think it's been corrected more often.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u139	Perfect. Please, the results. Please, may I have the results? The vote was this... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u140	Excuse me. I'd ask you, in a case like this and there's a doubt about the translation, at least...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u141	There is no doubt about it. There is no doubt, Michael.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u142	But...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u143	Please, please. Talk to me what you have. You son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u144	Thank you. No, that's it. Who decides whether they are or not? O sera, because you raise your hand? I mean. Or something's bothering me or something's going on here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u145	Mr. Otero, I said it right. Translation, one said it was a mistake, others said it was well heard. O se that mixes... I repeat, when there are flaws in the machine, when there are personal defects, it cannot be repeated. And that's the way to take it. It's another thing to say what the will was. But that doesn't change the vote, we won't turn this thing around any more. The mistakes are flaws, and every one must know how to make mistakes. And if you'll give me results, I'll say the results. Yes, there are no more words. I'm sorry, but... [[Berber]] Of course not. No, Mrs. López de Ocariz. No, ma'am, no! No, no, no, no! I mean, no! After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 31; the contrary is 44; the whites are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u146	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the Euca patriots and the whole leadership of the Socialists of Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2018-05-03.u147	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was three and sixteen in the afternoon.
